Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22544-BIH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR24.2 MILLION
(US$30 MILLION EQIVALENT)
TO
BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA
FOR A
ROAD MANAGEMENT AND SAFETY PROJECT
February 28, 2002
Infrastructure and Energy Services Departmnent
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 6/25/2001)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Mark (KM)
2.285 = US$1
US$0.438 = KM 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT                        Annual Average Daily Traffic
APL                         Adaptable Program Loan
BH                          Bosnia and Herzegovina
BRIC                        Bosnia & Herzegovina Road Infrastructure Public Corporation
EA                          Environmental Assessment
EBRD                        European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC                          European Commission
EIB                         European Investment Bank
EMP                         Environment Management Plan
ERR                         Economic Rate of Return
ETRP                        Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
Federation                  The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FBHRD                       Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Road Directorate
HDM                         Highway Development Model
ICAO                        International Civil Aviation Organization
ICB                         Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA                         International Development Association
IFI                         International Financial Institution
LACI                        Loan Administration Change Initiative
NCB                         National Competitive Bidding
NPV                         Net Present Value
OHR                         Office of the High Representative
PID                         Project Implementation Directorate
PMR                         Project Management Report
RS                          Republic of Srpska
RSRD                        Republic of Srpska Road Directorate
SETRP                       Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
SIL                         Standard Investment Loan
SNCB                        Simplified National Competitive Bidding
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:  Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Director:  Hossein Razavi
Sector Manager:   Eva Molnar, ECSIE
Task Team Leader:   Cesar Queiroz, ECSIE



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
ROAD MANAGEMENT AND SAFETY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       9
3. Benefits and target population                                                     10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           13
2. Financial                                                                          14
3. Technical                                                                          14
4. Institutional                                                                      14
5. Environmental                                                                      16
6. Social                                                                             17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 18



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                19
2. Critical risks                                                                 19
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                 20
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                        20
2. Other                                                                          20
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                     21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                    21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                     23
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                               26
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                    27
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                              29
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                          33
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                  34
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                52
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                              53
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                             55
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                       57
Annex 11: Road Management and Maintenance Policy Letter                             59
Annex 12: Road Safety and Actions Related To Emergency Medical Services             64
Annex 13: Road Needs and Financing                                                  71
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 31452



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Road Management and Safety Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIE
Date: February 28, 2002                          Team Leader: Cesar Queiroz
Country Director: Christiaan Poortman            Sector Manager: Eva Molnar
Project ID: P071347                              Sector(s): TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
1 Loan      [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ Guarantee      [] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 30.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.50
Financing Plan (US$mn):   Source                           Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                     11.53           0.00         11.53
IDA                                                           0.80          29.20         30.00
FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                                0.00           0.00          0.00
Total:                                                       12.33          29.20         41.53
Borrower: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Responsible agency: ENTITY MINISTRIES OF TRANSPORT
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Road Directorate (FBHRD)
Address: Ulica Put Zivota 2, 71000 Sarajevo
Contact Person: Mr. Arif Dilberovic
Tel: ++ (387) 33 21 33 69         Fax: ++ (387) 33 25 04 00
Email: fd-ceste@bih.net.ba
Other Agency(ies):
Republika Srpska Road Directorate (RSRD)
Address: Ulica Vase Pelagica 10, 78000 Banja Luka
Contact Person: Dr. Dragan Mihajlovic
Tel: ++ (387) 51-309 061          Fax: ++ (387) 51-308 316          Email: dmihajlovic@rdprs.org
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003       2004       2005      2006      2007
Annual     3.00       8.00      10.00      6.00      3.00
Cumulative    3.00       11.00     21.00      27.00     30.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2007
ocsSoPA FO.o S, Un,* 20X0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to improve traffic flow and reduce accident rates on the country's road
network through rehabilitation of priority road sections associated with identified poor road condition and
accident 'black spots'.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
I Post-construction traffic surveys demonstrate the achievement of expected reductions in travel time and
increase in traffic volumes within each identified road segment when compared to pre-construction traffic
surveys.
2. Post-construction accident records indicate significant reduction in accidents at 'black spots' when
compared to pre-construction records.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20301-BIH Date of latest CAS discussion: October 18, 2001
Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a population of 4.2 million and GDP per capita of US$920 in 1998, is one
of the poorest regions of the former Yugoslavia. The overall objective of the Country Assistance Strategy is
to increase economic opportunity and improve the quality of life of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
with poverty reduction as an overarching theme. The strategic objectives of the CAS are (i) to help
strengthen weak and fragmented govemance structures, (ii) foster private sector-led growth and
employment, and (iii) establish affordable and equitable social services. As road transport accounts for
over 95 percent of all goods and passenger movements, efficient and low cost road transport is essential to
the attainment of the second objective by reducing road transport costs and facilitating local, regional and
even intemational commerce. This, in tum, would facilitate pursuit of the other country development
objectives. In Bosnia and Herzegovina road development is also an important integration factor. More
specifically, the project will be supportive of the CAS objectives in the following ways:
(i) It will provide improvements in vital infrastructure needed for private sector-led growth;
(ii) It will make a direct contribution to the creation of stronger public sector institutions through the
institutional strengthening of the road administrations;
(iii) It will promote privatization and development of the road construction industry by increasing
contracting, improved quality control for civil works activities, and the use of competitive bidding for civil
works contracts; and
(iv) It will support poverty alleviation by providing employment for the low income population directly
through the works programs included in the project and by improved access to vital social services, and
indirectly through the support for private sector investment and its related employment generation.
- 2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background
Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) is a country that has a central govemment, called the Council of Ministers,
but is essentially comprised of two parts (referred to as the "Entities"): the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina (the Federation), and the Republic of Srpska (RS). The central government has State
institutions that encompass the entire country and each of the two Entities have Parliaments and Ministries.
The road network of Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of approximately 22,600 km, with 3,788 km of main
roads (of which about 96 percent is paved), 4,842 km of regional roads and 14,000 km of local roads. Of
these, 2,024 km of main and 2,724 km of regional roads are in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
and 1,764 km of main and 2,384 km of regional roads are in Republic of Srpska.
Emergency Program of Assistance. Following the end of hostilities in 1995, an emergency transport
reconstruction program was prepared and presented to the intemational donor conmmunity in December
1995. This program was implemented through the Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project (ETRP)
and its successor, the Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project (SETRP). The ETRP was
launched in early 1996 for a total amount of US$149 million of which IDA financed US$35 million. The
SETRP, launched in 1997, totaled US$184 million, and was conceived as a continuation of the activities
initiated under the ETRP, of which IDA financed US$39 million. The primary objective of the ETRP and
SETRP was to remove critical infrastructure bottlenecks in order to permit the resumption of operation of
the country's major transport network. From 1996 to 2000 under the two projects, a total of US$158.4
million in assistance from the European Union, the United States, Japan, EBRD, and IDA was made
available for improvements in roads and bridges.
Most of the emergency needs defined in 1995 have been met, due in large part to the combined activities of
the donor community with funding under the ETRP and the SETRP as described above: (i) a significant
part of the main and regional road networks has been rehabilitated, based on the needs identified in 1995,
with 60 bridges located on the main and regional road networks repaired and/or rehabilitated and road
maintenance carried out on 1,600 km of the main network and 750 km of the regional network; (ii) the
Sarajevo, Mostar and Banja Luka airports are now operating to civilian standards; (iii) trains can run on
most of the network, although at minimum safety and technical standards; and (iv) public transportation
has resumed country-wide, the tram system in Sarajevo is in operation, and 300 buses and mini-buses have
been procured, meeting about 70 percent of the needs identified in 1995. Also, the local contracting and
consulting industries have strengthened considerably, as evidenced by the degree of competition now
existing, and by the ability of the contractors to submit correct bids on studies and works, as well as to
execute works in a timely and technically competent way.
However, a number of important issues could not be addressed adequately in the context of these two
emergency operations. These were: (i) the need to establish a more sustainable road maintenance and
management system/capacity throughout the country; (ii) efficiency in the use of public funds for road
maintenance; and (iii) provide adequate resources to preserve and improve the serviceability of the existing
road network. Without urgent action on all these three areas, there is a danger that the road network will
deteriorate rapidly with an increased level of traffic, thus impeding development.
Present Condition of the Road Network. Despite the emergency program, a significant part of the main
- 3 -



road network is still in poor condition, mainly because of: (i) the maintenance backlog accumulated before
and during the hostilities; and (ii) insufficient allocations to road maintenance and rehabilitation, especially
in the Federation. The lack of funding has contributed to the continued deterioration of the Federation's
main road network, while the condition of the main road network in Republic of Srpska can be considered
stabilized; (iii) lack of respect of axle-load limits; and (iv) increase in traffic volume, whereby since 1987,
traffic increased between 2 and 3 times on road sections located around the country's main cities, which
corresponds to an average annual increase of about 7 percent. Traffic counts perforned in 2000, during
the preparation of the JICA-fmanced Transport Master Plan, showed that traffic was about 10,500 annual
average daily traffic (AADT) on the Sarajevo-Tuzla road near Tuzla, 17,000 AADT on the
Sarajevo-Mostar road near Sarajevo, and 15,400 AADT on the Banja Luka-Gradiska road near Banja
Luka. Damage includes deep rutting (on some sections, over 70 mm), wide-spread cracks, potholes and
generally increasing roughness due to a high density of patchwork and in some cases to structural fatigue.
While road maintenance can still be effective in prolonging the life of the pavements on some of these
damaged sections, more costly solutions will be required to stop the deterioration, including in some cases
partial reconstruction. In addition, the traffic increases mentioned above have occurred over a period during
which basically no road widening has been carried out. This increasing traffic on narrow roads has a
negative impact on road safety. It is thus foreseen that a number of traffic safety-related measures such as
modifications of intersections and widening of shoulders (typically only 0.5 m wide) on some of the most
critical parts of the main network will need to be carried out.
Road Management Capacity
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Road Directorate. Roads are maintained by separate Road
Directorates for the Federation and for the Republic of Srpska. For the Federation, road management is the
responsibility of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Roads Directorate (FBHRD), which was
formally established in 1999 as part of the Federation Ministry of Transport and Communications. The
previous projects in the sector were implemented by a Project Implementation Directorate (PID). The
PID's performance in implementing the SETRP was rated as satisfactory, and FBHRD has retained some
of the key PID staff. However, road maintenance has remained severely under-funded since the end of the
hostilities despite agreement reached with IDA during the preparation of the SETRP. A Law on Roads in
the Federation was adopted in December 2001.
Republic of Srpska Road Directorate. In Republic of Srpska, the situation is more satisfactory. A Law on
Roads was passed in 1995 establishing the Republic of Srpska Road Directorate (RSRD). RSRD is
gradually building up its capacity. The administration now has 49 staff members and is able to carry out
the basic duties pertaining to a road administration. However, more support will be required to develop it
into a full-fledged administration in areas such as road management, planning and prioritization for road
maintenance, competitive procurement, environment and safety related activities, and axle load controls.
Bosnia and Herzegovina Road Infrastructure Public Corporation. At the inter-Entity level, a roads
organization has been established, under the auspices of the Office of the High Representative (OHR), the
international civilian authority in the country, called the Bosnia and Herzegovina Road Infrastructure
Public Corporation (BRIC). BRIC was established through an Agreement of the two Entities, signed by
Federation and RS Prime Ministers, and Principal Deputy High Representative (OHR), in February 2000,
published in the Official Gazette Number 11, dated March 31, 2000. According to the Agreement, BRIC's
main duties are to (i) act as a joint representative of the two Entities for contacts with institutions of BiH
and the intemational community, (ii) participate in road and other transportation network development
planning and the establishment ofjoint action plans for the entire territory of BiH, (iii) harmonize and agree
- 4 -



on joint lists of priorities for maintenance, rehabilitation, upgrading, modernization and network expansion
to potential international sponsors and other financiers, (iv) consider as immediate priority European road
corridors traversing BiH, (v) prevent enactment of any measures that may result in restricting freedom of
movement of operators/persons, (vi) work on modernizing and harmonizing road signage, road markings,
traffic signals, weighing stations, lighting, road safety devices and other systems, as well as the rules and
criteria used for managing road infrastructures in the two Entities, and (vii) work on modernizing and
harmonizing and determining the amount of road infrastructure usage fees to be collected from foreign
operators using the network in the Entities.
BRIC can perform a useful role in introducing standard practices to both of the Entity Road Directorates in
the above areas. In order to achieve results in the short term, the BRIC should not consider road network
development as a primary area of focus for the time being, given: (a) the weak fiscal situation prevailing in
the country, with adequate funding not likely to be available for road development in the foreseeable future;
(b) the difficulties of attracting private investments on acceptable terms to Bosnia and Herzegovina; and (c)
the fact that, especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina, road development is politically a very difficult
question, as a country-wide road development scheme requires the agreement of the three constituencies
which, so far, have shown diverging interests. Instead, it should concentrate on areas where coordination is
needed, and should leave the implementation of road maintenance and development to the FBHRD and the
RSRD for each of their respective road networks.
BRIC has received financial support from EU-PHARE for a short term consultancy contract with the
German Technical Cooperation Agency (GTZ) for expert advice on the institutional development and
organization of BRIC to help establish it as a functioning organization with headquarters in Banja Luka,
with the expectation that it would eventually become the country's highway agency. In addition, the Quick
Reaction Fund of the Swiss Government has made 50,000 KM available to BRIC to finance the
procurement of its own equipment and office furniture in order to enable it to become an institution capable
of operating independently from the Government ministries.
Efficiency of Public Expenditures
Increasing the efficiency of public expenditures is of primary importance in a context of scarce budgetary
resources and sharply declining support from the international community. Inefficiencies have been
identified as follows: (i) weaknesses in the procurement process of maintenance activities funded out of
budgetary resources; (ii) several road maintenance companies are still owned by the Entity Council of
Ministers; (iii) road maintenance contracts, and to a lesser extent, road rehabilitation contracts, are
awarded on an annual basis, to follow the budgetary year; and (iv) the absence of a road databank and the
present design standards, which usually lead to over designed technical solutions that do not achieve an
optimal use of available resources.
In the Federation, 12 companies have been included in regular and winter maintenance programs contracted
by the Federation Road Directorate. Contracts have been awarded to these companies directly. However,
after the privatization process is completed, competitive selection will take place. So far out of 12
companies eight have been privatized, privatization process is ongoing in the remaining four. The process
of privatization is expected to be completed by the end of 2002. As in RS, competitive selection for
maintenance of the roads has been introduced to allow for the private companies to be selected by
competitive procedures.
In Republic of Srpska, regular and winter maintenance is now being done by ten companies, which have
been contracted directly by the RS Road Directorate, as per the provisions of the current law. Four of the
- 5 -



companies have been privatized, and the privatization process has started for another company. The other
five companies are registered as joint stock companies, with approximately 40 % owned by state.
Competitive selection for maintenance of the roads has been introduced to allow for the private companies
to be selected by competitive procedures.
Road Safety Conditions (see Annex 12)
According to a report prepared for EU-Phare in November 1999, the 1997 fatality rate of around 18.6
deaths per 10,000 vehicles was around nine times higher than the fatality rate of 1.5 to 2.0 deaths per
10,000 vehicles in industrialized countries such as the United Kingdom. Because of the breakup of the road
management systems that existed previously when Bosnia and Herzegovina was part of Yugoslavia, there
is little data on accident causes (and hence a reason for the high fatality rate), condition of the vehicle fleet,
and accident reporting. However, several locations of accident black spots have been identified and will be
addressed by the project. There is also no coordination of road safety activities between the two Entities.
The EU-Phare report recommended that one organization at the national level should be tasked with
collating the data and analyzing trends, as well as coordinating all areas of road safety activity. The newly
established BRIC has the potential to play this role but will need to be strengthened in order to do so.
It is estimated that the economic impact of road crashes in the Europe and Central Asia Region is
approximately 1.5-2.0 percent of GNP. For Bosnia and Herzegovina this amounts to around DEM 116
million, or DEM 31 per capita (compared to DEM 114 per capita spent in total on health services in the
country). In terms of health impact, the number of deaths is relatively small in comparison to the total
number of deaths in Bosnia and Herzegovina (estimated 315 out of 19,000 deaths annually or 1.7 percent).
However, the younger age at death and significant disability resulting from automobile accidents means
that the resulting disability adjusted life years (DALYs) lost is much higher (accidents in total account for 9
percent of DALYs lost).
Road Maintenance Financing (see Annex 13)
(a) Federation Road Financing. Road User Charges are levied in the form of various taxes and fees
including sales tax on fuel, road fee, excise duties, and vehicle taxes; 40 percent of the fuel and road fees
are allocated to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Road Directorate. Consequently the relationship
between the road user charges and the expenditures for road maintenance is weak. New construction is
financed through various means, such as local budgets and contributions by enterprises. The only
expenditures financed through the FBHRD budget have been routine and winter maintenance, reported by
the FBHRD to be 10.5 million KM in 2000 and 13.7 million KM in 2001. Thus in the Federation,
allocations to road maintenance have so far been insufficient to cover even minimum maintenance
requirements, estimated at 25 million KM per year. However, increased allocations are expected with the
adoption of the new law in December 2001.
(b) Republic of Srpska Road Financing. In Republic of Srpska, the situation is more satisfactory. Road
user charges include: fuel taxes (retail tax, excise duties, special republic tax), vehicle taxes, import tax,
registration tax, annual vehicle tax, automobile association, tax and transit tax. Of the above charges, only
a few categories are intended for road/transport purposes. 46.25 percent of the fuel excise duties and 85
percent of the annual vehicle tax are allocated to the RSRD. The other charges are allocated mainly to the
general Government budget with some amounts also to the municipalities. The approved budget for 2001 is
60 million KM. The actual expenditures in 2000 were 67.4 million KM. The fuel excise tax is estimated
conservatively at the beginning of the year and the budget may be adjusted upward as revenues are
-6 -



collected.
Environmental Management
Present road construction environmental standards (including mitigation measures) are still those which
were used during the time of the former Yugoslavia. These standards are in the process of being upgraded
and aligned with international requirements (EU). In addition, since the end of the hostilities, the Entities'
capacity of enforcing environmental standards and monitoring the impact of road works on the environment
has been limited. This capacity needs to be reinforced, both within the road administrations and within the
environmental agencies.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The following issues will be addressed by the project:
(a) Strengthening Weak and Fragmented Governance Structures. The project will support the CAS
objective of strengthening weak and fragmented governance structures. The project will do so by
addressing the issues of (i) inadequate financing for road maintenance; (ii) inadequate management capacity
for road maintenance; and (iii) the need to improve road safety conditions. The following strategic choices
have been made in deciding how to address the issues:
(i) Inadequate financing for road maintenance is a major impediment to the continued provision of
transport services in Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly in the Federation. The project will address this
issue in the short term by the addition of financing from the Credit for road improvements through civil
works contracts. For the longer term, the project contains a condition that the financing for road
maintenance from the respective budgets in the Entities will be gradually increased during the life of the
project.
(ii) Increased road financing will only be effective in maintaining the road network if it is utilized
by competent and efficient road administrations. A crucial aspect of the project will, therefore, be the
institutional strengthening for FBHRD, RSRD and BRIC. The Emergency Projects were satisfactorily
implemented through the use of efficient PID organizations, which either have been ( in the case of RS) or
will be integrated into the directorates themselves. Now the challenge will be to integrate the new skills and
knowledge into the directorates themselves. This will be done by providing consultants to assist in the
installation of improved data banks, the use of HDM for carrying out economic analysis, improving the
road and materials design standards, introducing modem road maintenance technology, improving
management and financial systems, and providing training on road management and on environmental
issues. While RSRD is somewhat ahead of the Federation in achieving a viable and efficient operation, the
FBHRD seems determined to take advantage of the consultant services to be provided through the project
to modernize its operations and improve its skills.
(iii) There is an obvious need to have a degree of coordination and standardization of the road
works carried out in the two Entities. While implementation of the civil works component can be handled
by the two road directorates separately, the project will also support the development of BRIC in
organizing common design standards, a coordinated road safety program, and coordination in future
planning for the expansion of the road network with the objective of addressing the need for coordination in
these fields of activity.
(iv) There is a pressing need to reduce the high rate of accidents and fatalities in Bosnia and
- 7 -



Herzegovina. The means of achieving this have been well established in the Westem European countries,
and can be applied here. The process of improving road safety will be initiated by efforts to increase
awareness of the magnitude of the problem through seminars, efforts to increase cooperation among the
various governmental agencies with responsibilities in this area, and through the development of a road
safety plan. The project will also correct black spots identified by the Road Directorates.
(b) CAS Theme of Poverty Reduction. Although not a poverty targeted intervention, the project will help
address the CAS theme of poverty reduction by providing employment for the low income population
directly through the construction works included in the project and by improved access to vital social
services such as health care and educational facilities. It will also support this theme indirectly through the
support for private sector development and its related employment generation.
(c) Regional Considerations. The project will be supportive of the regional interaction of Bosnia and
Herzegovina with its neighbors and the European Union by improving linkages between commercial centers
and the country's border, through the rehabilitation of about 150 km of Corridor Vc of the Trans-European
Transport Network. The project will also strengthen the inter-Entity organization (BRIC), which has
responsibility for international road transport matters. Cross-border cooperation to facilitate trade is being
supported by the Bank-financed Trade and Transport Facilitation Project.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of     financing   Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (US$M)    financing
1. Road maintenance, rehabilitation,  Highways        36.63      88.2      25.64      85.5
and safety improvements for the main
and regional road network, including
about 280 km of priority road sections
in the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, and about 290 km of
priority road sections in Republic of
Srpska.
2. Institutional strengthening of the  Institutional   4.90       11.8      4.36      14.5
FBHRD and RSRD, including setting  Development
up of road and bridge data banks,
introducing the use of HDM for setting
road maintenance priorities, supervision
for civil works, the use of competitive
bidding procedures, familiarization with
modem road maintenance technologies,
improved financial management
systems, establishing environmental
units in each of the Road Directorates
and to support these units in
implementing their Environmental
-8 -



Management Plans (EMPs), training of
staff and audits of the project accounts.
Also, this component includes a
program of technical support for BRIC,
including establishing improved and
uniform road and bridge design,
maintenance and construction
standards, creation of a road safety data
base and conducting safety awareness
campaigns, development of the capacity
to evaluate private sector proposals for
investmnents in road concessions, and
the coordination of inter-Entity and
intemational road matters, as well as
staff training. Also included is office
equipment and supplies, and vehicles
and equipment for road works surveys
and supervision for FBHRD and
RSRD, and office equipment, vehicles
and supplies for BRIC.
0.0                  0.0
Total Project Costs                   41.53     100.0     30.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    41.53      100.0     30.00     100.0
The total cost of the project components made available to the Federation will be US$27.96 million
equivalent of which US$20.00 million equivalent will be financed from the IDA Credit. For RS, the total
project cost will be US$13.57 million equivalent, of which US$ 10.00 million will be financed from the IDA
Credit..
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support the following policy and institutional reforms:
*   increase private sector participation through the introduction of competitive bidding for both
periodic and routine maintenance.
*   employment creation, both directly through the jobs needed to implement the civil works program,
and from the investment that is expected to be stimulated by an improved road infrastructure.
*   rationalization and optimization of road expenditure.
*   increased organizational efficiency of the Federation's and RS's road directorates with clearer
goals, objectives and performance targets, increased management autonomy and accountability for
results, and more effective planning, management and control systems.
*   begin the process of increasing awareness of the need for improved road safety, and setting up the
operational systems needed to establish and carry out a road safety program.
*   improvements in the enforcement of environmental standards for road works.
-9-



3. Benefits and target population:
The rehabilitation, maintenance, safety, and institution building components of the project will reduce
vehicle operating costs, travel time and accidents, thus benefiting road users, and producers and consumers
of goods transported by road. It will particularly benefit the low income populations served by the road
network through improved access to markets for their agricultural products, as well as to social services
such as health and education. Attention will be paid to the needs of disabled people by removing, where
appropriate, architectural barriers, old reconstructing sidewalks and pedestrian crossings. The privatization
of the remaining public road maintenance companies and the transferring of road maintenance actiVities to
private contractors, will provide private sector jobs and help the Entities to reduce the public sector work
force. Finally, the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina will benefit from increased awareness regarding
environmental issues related to the transport sector, and by strengthening the Entities' environmental
management capacity and increasing the means available to them to monitor and reduce threats to the
environment.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The State of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be the Borrower of the Credit. The Borrower will onlend, under
subsidiary agreements, respective parts of the proceeds of the Credit to the Entities on the same terms and
conditions as the Borrower shall pay to the Association. The two Entities' Council of Ministers will be
responsible for implementing their common part of the project through the BRIC. In the Entities,
implementation responsibility will be delegated to the Entity Ministries of Transport and Communications.
The implementing agencies will be the Entity Road Directorates FBHRD and RSRD. Each of these
organizations had Project Implementation Directorates (PIDs) under the Emergency projects, which have
been substantially integrated into their organizations. Implementation at all levels will be conducted in
accordance with the provisions of the Credit and Project Agreements, and performance will be monitored
through the use of the project design and monitoring indicators (see Annex 1).
The Borrower will open the Special Accounts and transfer authority for their use to the Entities. The
Federation and Republic of Srpska will each have a separate Special Account. The Special Accounts will
be held in commercial banks acceptable to IDA. There will be a separate Government Counterpart Fund
account for the FBHRD and the RSRD set up in commercial banks. The FBHRD and the RSRD will
make all payments for the project and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures
for project activities. The FBHRD and the RSRD will maintain local accounts in EURO for foreign
currency payments and local accounts in KM for local currency payments. A maximum advance of two
weeks estimated IDA share of expenditures is allowed from the IDA Special Accounts. The two Entities,
through their Road Directorates, will be in charge of preparing quarterly progress reports. BRIC will
prepare its own progress reports on the activities carried out by BRIC in each quarter of project
implementation.  These reports will be sent simultaneously to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and
Communications, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republic of Srpska and the Bank. BRIC will
be supported by FBHRD and RSRD in all matters regarding procurement and disbursement.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit will follow the transaction-based method i.e. the traditional Bank
procedures (reimbursements with full documentation, Statements of Expenditure (SOE), direct payments
and special commitments). The FBHRD and RSRD will prepare and submit quarterly Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMR) in format agreed with the Bank. The project expenditures will be audited on an
annual basis by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. The project is included under the global
audit contract for World Bank financed projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina which is currently contracted
with PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Netherlands.
- 10-



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The possibility of utilizing an APL instead of a SIL was explored and discussed at the Decision Review
Meeting. However, while the meeting agreed that an APL might be appropriate in order to better stage the
implementation of the institutional reforms and to increase IDA's leverage regarding budget financing for
road maintenance, it is not well suited to the use of IDA financing, and would be difficult to accomplish
within the limited time available for project preparation. Therefore under these conditions, a SIL was
determiined to be more appropriate.
The alternative of focusing the project on road rehabilitation only was considered, as rehabilitation is
essential to keep some of the key road sections in acceptable condition and the prospects for institutional
strengthening are uncertain. While such an alternative would have provided for a simple project design and
straightforward implementation, it would have three major flaws:
*   it would not ensure the sustainability of the investments being undertaken, as it would not focus
sufficiently on developing adequate road management capacity and financing;
*   it would unduly restrict the potential institution building impact of the project, which is seen as a
vehicle for making a major contribution to improved road management capacity; and
*   it would not address the issue of traffic safety.
The alternative of including a road building component in the project was also considered, as traffic
has increased rapidly since 1987, while virtually no capacity increase of the main network has taken
place. This alternative was rejected, as increasing capacity would have been possible only on a
restricted number of road sections due to the high cost of this altemative, and as other aid donors have
expressed interest in financing such activities. In particular, the EIB plans to finance one of the
remaining sections of the Sarajevo bypass, and two proposals have been received from the private
sector for road concessions during the last year. However, evaluation of these proposals showed that
the rationale for "traditional" concession agreements was weak and that other solutions had to be
found.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.  .   .        .             -  Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
.__ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ ___ __ __   ___ (Bank-financed  projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Road network                      Emergency Transport              S             S
reconstruction/maintenance        Reconstruction Project
Road network                      Second Emergency Transport       S             S
reconstruction/maintenance and    Reconstruction Project
institution building
Trade facilitation                Trade and Transport              S             S
Facilitation in Southeast Europe
Other development agencies
Road network                      Emergency Transport
- 11 -



reconstruction/maintenance funded  Reconstruction Project and
mainly by the EBRD, EC, and the    Second Emergency Transport
Council of M_inisters of Japan and the  Reconstrucfion Project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Project Implementation Directorates. In an emergency situation where speedy implementation is crucial
and where established institutions do not exist or where their performance is uncertain, it makes sense to
create special organizations for project implementation that can focus their attention on the task at hand
without being diverted by other considerations. From this perspective the PIDs proved most useful and
appropriate for the implementation of the two Emergency Projects. However, they should be seen as
transitory arrangements only, and be integrated into more established administrative structures. In both
Entities, the PID has already been integrated into the respective Road Directorates.
Time Needed for Reform. Even in an extreme, post-conflict situation such as in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
where the international community has more leverage than in most other countries, the prospects for
reforms have proven slim in the absence of local consensus and interest. In this case there are compelling
objective reasons to proceed rapidly with reforms, but unless these reasons have been weighed in the
political process against the perceived disadvantages for the different ethnic groups, progress is not likely to
be forthcoming.
Institutional Components.Closely linked to the previous lesson is the fact that institutional components of
projects have often fallen short of achieving their objectives.  The frequent changes of sector
administrations have been an important factor. But the scope and timetable of these components have often
been overly optimistic. The institutional component of the project focuses on a few essential issues. It will
be monitored against clear indicators and targets.
Counterpart Funding and Budgets. Counterpart funding has been an issue under the SETRP. In order to
reduce this risk, the Entities' road programs and budgets will need to be reviewed by IDA each year before
the programs are sent to the Parliaments for the following year's budgets. The budgets should include the
counterpart amounts estimated to be required during the following year as part of the Entities' Public
Investment Programs.
- 12 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Following approval by IDA of the ETRP and SETRP, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina
began requesting this project, and have reiterated their interest in it ever since that time. The two Entities'
Council of Ministers see this project as an opportunity to resolve a number of outstanding issues remaining
unresolved since the end of hostilities, including: (i) the need to increase the efficiency of financing
mechanisms. to fund road maintenance and development; and (ii) the need to strengthen a road organization
to handle inter-Entity network development and international matters in the road sector, as well as to ensure
coordinated maintenance and development activities within the Entities. Morover, the project is seen as the
appropriate vehicle to increase the efficiency of the main road network management, expand expenditures
in the road sector, and create financing mechanisms to fund future road network maintenance. Both Entity
Council of Ministers and BRIC have prepared and presented specific proposals to IDA detailing the
contents of the various proposed project components. The FBHRD and RSRD have demonstrated their
willingness to cooperate and support each other. As an example, during the pre-appraisal mission a senior
RSRD official joined project preparation discussions at FBHRD headquarters; at appraisal, representatives
of both Entities, as well as of BRIC, participated at a joint seminar on roads and environmental issues. A
Road Management and Maintenance Policy letter, addressed to the Bank, was signed on September 28,
2001, by the State Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications, and the Federation and Republic of
Srpska Ministers of Transport and Communications. The letter outlines the proposed actions to improve
the ability of Bosnia and Herzegovina to manage efficiently and maintain properly its road network (see
Annex 11).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Since the end of hostilities in 1995, IDA has been the main aid donor in the road sector, especially in terms
of institutional development and reestablishment of local construction capacity. There is an active policy
dialogue with the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities, and IDA has been providing advice on a number of
issues ranging from evaluation of proposed motorway concessions to the drafting of laws and regulations
pertaining to the road and railway sectors. IDA thus has a comparative advantage in undertaking a project
aimed at increasing management effectiveness in the road sector. Specifically, the Bank will help:
*   enhance public expenditures efficiency and management through modifications of technical
standards and the systematic introduction of economic evaluation; through increase of supervision
capacity; and through joint reviews of the annual programs;
*   strengthen governance through the creation of an inter-Entity body, development and strengthening
of the Entity Road Directorates, as well as the establishment of an adequate environmental
management and monitoring capacity in the road sector; and
*   promote private sector development through the development of capacity to prepare and evaluate
concessions, privatization of road maintenance companies and introduction of performance-based
contracts.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$12.5 million; ERR = 21.7 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The economic evaluation has been carried out on that part of the project which comprises road
maintenance, rehabilitation and safety improvements for the main and regional road network. This
- 13 -



component accounts for about 90 percent of total project costs. The remaining, which is allocated
mainly to the institutional strengthening of the Entity Road Directorates, including technical
assistance, support and training, is considered to be a prerequisite for the development of the
Road Directorates into modem and efficient organizations. No formalized economic analysis has
been carried out for that part of the project. The economic analysis was carried out by evaluating
and comparing costs and benefits of road improvements compared to the absence of road
interventions until a complete resurfacing would be warranted. In order to verify the results, the
Bank staff also ran an analysis using the HDM-4 computer model. The ERRs achieved on this
basis were generally higher than those calculated in the evaluation described above. The Net
Present Value was calculated based on a cost of capital of 12 percent. A sensitivity analysis based
on a 20 percent increase in construction costs, and a 20 percent reduction in the traffic increase,
demonstrated that the project is sufficiently robust to provide a positive return under these
conditions.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Not applicable, as the Entities are not revenue-producing institutions and as such, do not require financial
analysis.
Fiscal Impact:
The Government counterpart financing requirement, estimated at US$11.53 million equivalent, including
30 percent of the civil works component, will be spread over the five year life of the project implementation
period. Of this amount, US$3.57 million will be provided by the Republic of Srpska and US$7.96 million
by the Federation. Based on the delays encountered in meeting the counterpart requirements of the
Emergency projects, where the Government contribution was only 10 percent for the civil works
component, this amount will be difficult to achieve, especially for the Federation. For this reason, an initial
deposit of EURO 200,000 equivalent for the Republic of Srpska and EURO 400,000 equivalent for the
Federation will be a condition for the effectiveness of the respective components for each Entity.
3. Technical:
Road sections have been selected for improvement based on road surveys carried out in 2001. As is the
usual case in road work of this kind, the roads will deteriorate further prior to carrying out the work,
especially in the later years of the project. Therefore, each year the roads will be resurveyed and economic
rates of return recalculated, as needed, to assure that the selection of the road sections and the type of
periodic repairs are still appropriate. Where indicated, the selections will be revised to reflect the new
conditions. However, this is not expected to reduce the economic rates of return or Net Present Values for
the works, based on similar situations in other countries.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Although several systems and functions need strengthening (see below), the Road Directorates are capable
executing agencies, as both have implemented highway projects financed by IDA and other IFIs. The
knowledge of Bank procedures and requirements is good, both in Republic of Srpska and in the Federation.
The FBHRD is in the process of hiring additional staff familiar with World Bank procurement rules,
efficient at working on text, spreadsheet and emails software, and fluent in English.
- 14 -



4.2 Project management:
The project management capacity of the Road Directorates require strengthening. Stand-alone
computerized project management systems were established for monitoring implementation of the
IDA-financed part of the SETRP. These systems have proven reliable. However, a number of operations
still are performed manually, especially when preparing consolidated data. The project will support the
upgrading of these systems to increase their efficiency.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The Project will be carried out by the two roads directorates, FBHRD for the Federation and RSRD for the
Republic of Srpska. Both FBHRD and RSRD will also handle the procurement for BRIC. Both FBHRD
and RSRD will be staffed with a minimum of one procurement specialist (a condition of effectiveness) and
one procurement assistant to ensure that procurement is undertaken efficiently, in a timely manner, and in
accordance with the Bank procurement guidelines.
Both FBHRD and RSRD have a good knowledge of the Bank's procurement rules, procedures and bidding
documents from the previous Bank project. For FBHRD, this knowledge was improved in mid 2001 when a
former key staff of the PID joined the FBHRD.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Road Management and Safety project is one of the first Bank projects in BiH to be managed within the
structure of government departments. Most previous Bank projects have been "ring fenced" with separate
PIUs. The objective of integrating the project management into the respective government departments is
to begin the process of building longer-term sustainability of project management capacity. Given the
higher inherent risks during this transition, the financial management arrangements for the project have
been designed to compensate for the institutional weaknesses by having separate finance and accounting
units within the respective government department Roads Directorates, staffed by qualified personnel and
with independent accounting systems and controls.
An assessment of the Financial Management arrangements for the project was undertaken during appraisal
to determine whether the financial management arrangements within two Entities Road Directorates are
acceptable to the Bank. These financial management arrangements include the entities' systems of
accounting, financial reporting, auditing, and intemal controls.
Taking into account mitigating measures, the financial management arrangements for the Entities' Road
Directorates are considered capable of satisfactorily recording all transactions and balances, supporting the
preparation of regular and reliable financial statements, safeguarding the entities' assets, and are subject to
auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank.
The detailed financial management assessment is included in Annex 6b of this PAD.
The Financial Risks Assessment for this project has identified the following financial risks:
(a) Country financial management risk - the draft Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA) report notes that there are very weak financial structures in government departments. To
compensate, expenditures for the roads project in both Entities will be controlled and accounted for
by a separate unit within the respective Roads Directorate.
(b) Banking sector risk - The banking sector in BiH is considered to be very weak. To compensate for
this the special accounts for the project will be held in acceptable commercial banks outside the
- 15-



BiH.
(c) Perceived corruption risk - the Bank's financial resources are used for a relatively small number of
specific contracts which allows for close monitoring by the Bank.
(d) Counterpart funds risk - the Credit Agreement specifies an initial deposit of the Government's
contribution and assurances have been given that government counterpart funds will be budgeted
and advance on a regular basis. Close monitoring will still be required.
These risks are considered as manageable based on the various risk-rnitigation measures taken.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
In accordance with World Bank Safeguard Policies (OP/BP/GP 4.01 Environmental Assessment) the
project is rated environmental category B and Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) were prepared by
each of the Entity Road Directorates. The project is expected to have only minor negative impacts on the
environment, as it will focus on road maintenance and rehabilitation activities, with no resettlement or land
acquisition activities involved. Slight negative impacts are primarily during the construction phase and
would be restricted to road works related to movements of men, and materials (asphalt, rocks, dust, noise
etc.), excavation of borrow pits, altered drainage patterns, disposal of wastes and associated activities of
road crews. After completion, the project will have positive indirect impacts on human health and safety
through decreased number of accidents; reduced air pollution from more even travel speeds on rehabilitated
road sections; reduced water pollution resulting from rehabilitated drainage systems; reduced noise levels
from those collectivities located close to the rehabilitated road sections. Materials (e.g. asphalt, stone, etc.)
would be supplied only from sources with approved licenses, permits, and/or approvals for environment
and worker safety, and any equipment used during construction would meet internationally recognized
standards for environment and worker health and safety.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Draft EMPs had been prepared by the Borrower for road maintenance and rehabilitation activities under
the project. The EMPs include: mitigation plan, monitoring plan, institutional strengthening needs,
institutional arrangements for environmental management, implementation schedule, and a record of the
public consultations. The documents were of outstanding quality. The World Bank reviewed them with the
Borrower during Appraisal and requested some minor revisions and clarifications. During project
implementation, provisions of the EMPs will be applied to all activities undertaken by the road
administrations, including design of road works. As appropriate, mitigation measures specified in the
EMPs will be incorporated as requirements in each bidding document for works. The contracts will contain
adequate provisions to ensure that the contractors undertake the measures specified in the EMPs. The Road
Directorates will be committed, under Project Agreements, to implement their part of the EMP through
their environmental units established under the project and with the support of the Entities environmental
agencies.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: September 5, 2001
Final draft EMPs delivered to World Bank Infoshop.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
- 16 -



Stakeholders were fully consulted after the EMPs were prepared. Descriptions of who were consulted,
when, where, and the method of consultation are fully described in the EMP Section F. Pubic hearings were
held near those communities located close to road sections to be rehabilitated under the project to ensure
that those most directly concerned by the project can, by voicing their opinions and suggestions, increase
the quality and efficiency of the works design. Maintenance and rehabilitation works to be funded under the
project include activities ranging from cleaning ditches and pothole patching to new overlays on certain
road sections. The project will also fund the modification of dangerous intersections and the creation of
parking areas on mountainous road sections. However, these works will be performed on road sections that
are not located within inhabited areas, and will be confined to the road right-of-way. Given the fact that the
works to be carried out are standard and do not have the potential to substantially modify the environment
within which the communities are located, hearings will take place during preparation of the individual
subprojects, and will be in accordance with guidelines to be agreed by the Road Directorates. Furthermore
a clause in Section E (Institutional Arrangements) of the EMP requires each Entity Road Directorate to
submit any proposed work activity to appropriate environmental authorities for their approval or to submit
any additional documentation to them that they may require for their approval.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The Entity Governments will be committed, under the Project Agreements, to monitor, on a regular basis the
impact of the project on the environment. A detailed monitoring program designed to validate the
effectiveness of the mitigating measures is included in the EMP. The monitoring program will be the
responsibility of the Entity Road Directorates, in collaboration with the Entities' environmental authorities.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
As noted above, Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic and social life depends mainly on its road network.
For much of the poor, rural and urban, their primary concern is basic accessibility to employment and
social facilities in all weather conditions. This is particularly important in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where
the distinction between urban and rural road is very often unclear and where winter conditions are severe.
In order to improve the project impact, a survey will be carried out to understand the transport needs of
urban and rural communities and of men and women. Although the project does not have land acquisition
issues, should these occur during project implementation, adequate treatment and mitigation measures will
be adopted. Safety will also be improved and monitored. Accident related data disagregated per gender,
age, location, etc. will be collected to help define where architectural barriers will be removed and safe
pedestrian crossings will be constructed.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project will focus mostly on inter-city roads, so that it is not expected that many communities would be
directly affected by the activities funded under the project. However, road users and communities living in
the areas of influence of the road sections to be rehabilitated under the project will be consulted during the
preparation of the subproject to determine social indicators to be built in the M & E System.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
At this stage, consultations and collaboration are anticipated to be handled directly between the Entity Road
Directorates and road users as well as local communities associations. These associations will participate
during the subprojects design phase to provide their inputs on how the designs should be modified to
- 17 -



accommodate as much as feasible their needs. Local communities will also be invited to provide feedback
on the implementation of works.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Social monitoring indicators will be determined by the social assessment. Decreased vehicle operating costs
and transportation costs, increased accessibility, transportation speed and road safety will depend on the
design of the road rehabilitation and safety activities and their implementation. A review of design
standards and technical solutions will be undertaken under the project to ensure that optimized technical
solutions be used in designing the rehabilitation and safety activities. Supervision of these activities will be
ensured by the Entity Road Directorates, which have demonstrated their supervision capabilities under
previous IDA-funded projects.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Social indicators such as access to services, improved living standards, gender impacts, safety issues will
be monitored. The monitoring and measuring of project performance will be carried out by the Entity Road
Directorates. Monitoring and measuring modalities will be discussed with the Borrower during the
upcoming mission, with the following agreements to be reached: (i) the nature of the required technical
assistance for strengthening of the Entity's Road Directorates for the measurement of these outcomes; and
(ii) establishment of a baseline for these outcomes at the beginning of project implementation.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Draft EMPs have been prepared by the Borrower. The Credit Agreement will contain a requirement that
the Borrower agrees to implement the EMPs.
- 18 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The key to project benefits sustainability lies in the efficiency of the road management structures and the
allocation of sufficient resources to road rehabilitation and maintenance. The project will address the issue
of road management capacity, road maintenance efficiency, and prioritization of activities according to
economic criteria. However, it will not, beyond the project implementation period, provide leverage to
ensure that sufficient resources are being allocated to the conservation of road assets, and that only
economically sound road construction projects are being undertaken. These two specific aspects should
continue to be monitored through other Bank activities such as follow-on projects or adjustment lending.
With respect to the creation of a concession capacity, sustainability will be attained only if this capacity is
used to properly assess the feasibility of concession schemes.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Entity Council of Ministers may not        S        Joint review of the annual road budget proposals
allocate sufficient resources to road               for each Entity, which should include
maintenance and rehabilitation.                     appropriate levels of counterpart funding, and
follow up by supervision missions.
From Components to Outputs
Entities' counterpart funds may not be     S        Counterpart funds will be included in the
timely available.                                   Ministries of Transport budget proposals to
their parliaments, and an initial payment will be
required as a condition of disbursement..
Road Directorates' staff may not be        M        The project will include specific support to
responsive to agreed changes.                       strengthen FBHRD, RSRD, and BRIC, both in
human and technical aspects of their operations.
Private contractors may not be responsive  N        Private contractors have already demonstrated
to new forms of contract.                           their interest and capability under the two
previous IDA financed operations in the
transport sector. Also, FBHRD and RSRD are
committed to give advance notice of contract
availability and to meeting with contractors
prior to bidding to clarify bidder's rights and
obligations.
Adequate staffing and resources may not    M        Bank staff have observed that some competent
be made available to FBHRD, RSRD, and               staff are already in place, and have emphasized
BRIC.                                               to the Council of Ministers the need for adding
more staff to their ranks during implementation.
Entity environmental agencies fully        N        The high quality of the EMPs prepared by
involved in preparation of EIA and project          FBHRD and RSRD augers well for good
activities.                                         cooperation within the country regarding
environmental aspects of the project.
FBHRD and RSRD staff may not be            M        FBHRD and RSRD have indicated their



competent to implement the new                       commitment to implement new procedures and
procedures and participate in their                 they clearly want training and upgraded
installation and the related training                equipment for increasing efficiency of their
programs.                                            operations. Supervision missions will follow up.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Obtaining annual increases in the budgets for the Entity road directorates may be difficult at a time when
the Government's overall resources are strained.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
Passage of the Federation Law on Roads is a condition of negotiations.
(i) The Government has selected independent auditors for the audit of the project accounts, with terms of
reference and qualifications satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(i) Effectiveness of the Subsidiary Agreements:
(a) For the Federation: (i) A Subsidiary Credit Agreement for US$20.0 million equivalent satisfactory
to IDA has been signed by the State and the Federation; (ii) The Borrower has opened a Project
Account in a commercial bank satisfactory to IDA and has deposited EURO 400,000 equivalent in that
account.
(b) For Republic of Srpska: (i) A Subsidiary Credit Agreement for US$10.0 million equivalent
satisfactory to IDA has been signed by the State and RS; (ii) The Borrower has opened a Project
Account in a commercial bank satisfactory to IDA, and has deposited EURO 200,000 equivalent in
that account.
(ii) The Entities will provide counterpart funds as required for financing their share of project costs on a
timely basis, and will deposit these funds into the Project Accounts for withdrawal as required for project
implementation. After the initial deposit of counterpart funds (condition of effectiveness), counterpart
funding will be reviewed with IDA on a quarterly basis.
(iii) In addition to the counterpart financing, the annual budgets of the FBHRD will be increased each year
by 20 percent on the average, and not less than 15 percent each year; for RSRD the routine maintenance
budget will increase not less than 5 percent each year both in real terms during the life of the project,
starting from the budgets for the year 2003.
(iv) The Govermment will complete the agreed financial action plan for strengthening the project financial
management systems by December 31, 2002.
- 20 -



(v) Procurement will be in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
(vi) The Borrower will assure that the Environmental Management Plan is carried out.
(vii) Not later than August 31 of each year, the Government will furnish IDA the annual project
implementation work programs for the Entities' road directorates for the next year, including procurement
and financing plans, and will review these plans with IDA before implementing them.
(viii) The Government will submit to IDA, commencing upon Credit effectiveness, a quarterly Project
Progress Report not later that 45 days after the end of each quarter outlining progress made in the
implementation of each project component, as well as the problems encountered and how they are being
addressed.
(ix) The Government will prepare a report, by August 31, 2003, outlining the progress made in carrying
out the project, and will review the report by September 30, 2003, in order to determine if the progress
toward meeting the project objectives is on schedule; the Government will then make any necessary
adjustmnents suggested by the Review in order to assure that the project objectives are achieved by the
project completion date.
(x) The Government will prepare, not later than 6 months after the Closing Date, a plan for the future
operation of the project activities, and the Government's input into the Implementation Completion Report,
both of which will be reviewed with IDA.
(xi) The Government will cause the Entity road directorates to have their records, accounts and financial
statements audited each year, comrencing with the accounts for the year ending December 31, 2002.
(xii) The Government will assure that no private land will be affected during the implementation of the
project unless procedures for compensation and replacement have been reviewed and found satisfactory by
IDA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
- 21 -



Cesar Queiroz                         olnar                      Christiaan Poortman
Team Leader                   t  Sector Manager                  Country Director
- 22 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Road Management and Safety Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                         .           Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Foster sustainable economic  Gradually improving     Bank CAS updates          Strong Government
growth in the following areas: economic and regional trade                    commitment to the CAS
(i) increase economic     statistics, compared to the                         reform agenda
opportunities and trade   baseline year.
efficiency;
(ii) promote private sector
development;
(iii) strengthen institutions, in
particular enhancing of public
expenditures efficiency and
management.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To improve traffic flow and  1 Post-construction traffic  * Traffic survey reports  * This project and
reduce accident rates on the  surveys demonstrate the   (annual) comparing        additional transport
country's road network    achievement of expected       before and after traffic  projects successfully
through rehabilitation of  reductions in travel time and  statistics on improved  carried out.
priority road sections    increase in traffic volumes   road sections.
associated with identified poor within each identified road
road condition and accident  segment when compared to
'black spots'.            pre-construction traffic
surveys.
2. Post-construction accident  * Traffic safety reports
records indicate significant  (annual) comparing
reduction in accidents at     before and after traffic
'black spots' when compared   safety statistics on
to pre-construction records,  improved road segments.
- 23 -



Key Performance      [Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Road Rehabilitation and  Post construction audits  * Quarterly progress     * Entity Council of
Safety: high priority road  indicate compliance with   reports and Bank          Ministers will allocate
sections and bridges      agreed road standards and    supervision missions'     sufficient resources to
rehabilitated within the  approved designs in          Aide Memoires             road maintenance and
country's road network,   rehabilitated segments.                                rehabilitation.
including accident 'black
spots'.
2. Institutional Strengthening: Road databank set up in  * technical audit reports
Sector agencies (including  FBHRD and RSRD by          (annual)
FBHRD, RSRD & BRIC) gain December 2003; FBHRD and
increased capacity and    RSRD staffs trained in
authority for road        necessary skill areas by June
management, planning,     2003; improved financial
program administration, and  systems installed within
enforcement of regulations;  FBHRD and RSRD by June
necessary office technology  2002; design and material
and laboratory and field  standards updated by
measuring equipment       December 2003; road safety
upgraded.                 data base in place and
functioning by June 2003.
- 24 -



Key Performnance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                         Outputs)
1. Road Rehabilitation and  US$36.63 million         * Quarterly progress      * Timely availability of
Safety                                                 reports and missions'     Entities counterpart
Aide-Memoirs             funds.
2. Institutional Strengthening US$4.90 million       * Financial audit reports  * Road Directorates' staff
(annual)                 responsive to agreed
* Disbursement reports      changes.
(quarterly)            * Private contractors
responsive to new forms
of contract.
* Adequate staffing and
resources made available
to FBHRD, RSRD, and
BRIC.
* Entity environmental
agencies fully involved in
preparation of EIA and
project activities.
* FBHRD and RSRD staff
are competent to
implement the new
procedures and
participate in their
installation and the
related training
programs.
- 25 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Road Management and Safety Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$36.63 million
1. Road rehabilitation and safety. This component covers estimated maintenance and rehabilitation needs
on the main and secondary road network, including upgrading of drainage, identified accident black spots,
road markings, crash barriers and signaling. It includes the improvement of 280 km of priority road
sections in the Federation (US$25.37 million), and 290 km of priority road sections in Republic of Srpska
(US$11.26 million). A detailed list of road rehabilitation and safety works proposed for the project is
given in Annex 6.
Project Component 2 - US$4.90 million
2. Institutional Strengthening. This component will provide consultant services for the institutional
strengthening of the FBHRD (US$1.78 million), including (i) setting up of a road and bridge data bank,
including pavement condition survey, and introducing the use of HDM for setting road maintenance and
rehabilitation priorities and annual road works programs; (ii) improved quality control procedures for civil
works; (iii) the use of competitive bidding procedures; (iv) familiarization with modem road maintenance
technologies; (v) improved financial management systems; (vi) support for the creation of core
environmental capacities, including establishing environmental unit in the Road Directorate and the review
of environmental standards and monitoring pertaining to the road sector; (vii) the training of the FBHRD
staff; (viii) creation of a road safety data base and conducting safety awareness campaigns; and (ix) half of
the cost of the audit of the project accounts. For RSRD (US$1.89 million), it includes: (i) assistance in
establishing procedures for works supervision; (ii) setting up road and bridge data banks; (iii) training in
economic analysis and road management; (iv) pavement condition surveys; (v) support in setting up
procurement procedures and units for traffic management and road safety and for environmental
management; (vi) creation of a road safety data base and conducting safety awareness campaigns; and (vii)
one-half of the cost of audits of the project accounts. It also includes a program of technical support for
BRIC (US$0.45 million), including: (i) establishing improved and uniform road and bridge design,
maintenance and construction standards; (ii) development of the capacity to evaluate private sector
proposals for investments in road concessions; (iii) the coordination of inter-Entity and intemational road
matters; and (iv) the training of the BRIC staff. Equipment, materials and supplies. This component will
also finance the equipment, materials and supplies needed to support the project activities, including
improved road management. For FBHRD, it will finance office equipment and supplies needed to
implement the road data bank, for the operation of an adequate financial and planning system and a road
safety system, preparation of reports, and vehicles and survey equipment for road works surveys and
supervision (US$0.48 million). For RSRD, it will include road measurement equipment and related office
equipment needed to establish the road and bridge data banks (US$0.25 million). For BRIC, it will finance
office equipment and supplies, and vehicles (US$0.05 million). A detailed list of services and goods
included in the institutional strengthening component of the project is given in Annex 6.
- 26 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Road Management and Safety Project
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component               US $million  US $million  US $million
1. Road rehabilitation and safety                       9.64        22.49        32.13
2. Institutional strengthening                           1.15         3.15        4.30
Total Baseline Cost                                     10.79        25.64       36.43
Physical Contingencies                                  0.98         2.30        3.28
Price Contingencies                                     0.54         1.28         1.82
Total Project Costs'            12.31        29.22        41.53
Total Financing Required             12.31        29.22       41.53
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category              US $million   US $million  US $million
Goods                                                     0.00          0.78         0.78
Works                                                    10.98         25.65        36.63
Services and Training                                     1.35          2.77         4.12
Other                                                     0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs     12.33        29.20        41.53
Total Financing Required     12.33        29.20        41.53
Cost estimates do not include VAT, as there is no VAT in Bosnia at this time.
- 27 -



Project Cost by Implementing Agency
FEDERATION           REPUBLIC OF            BRIC          TOTAL
SRPSKA
US$                  US$                US$           US$
Works                         25.37                11.26                            36.63
(IDA financing 70%)          (17.69)              (7.95)                            (25.64)
Goods                         0.48                 0.25               0.05           0.78
(IDA financing 100%)          (0.48)              (0.25)              (0.05)        (0.78)
Technical Services            0.14                 0.07                              0.21
(IDA financing 70%)           (0.10)              (0.05)                            (0.15)
Consultants and               1.64                 1.82               0.45           3.91
Training *
(IDA financing 88%)           (1.44)              (1.60)              (0.39)        (3.43)
Total Project Cost            27.63                13.40              0.50          41.53
(19.71)              (9.85)             (0.44)         (30.00)
Credit Amount
Without BRIC                  19.71                9.85
BRIC                          0.29                 0.15
With BRIC                     20.00                10.00                            30.00
*Includes 50% of audits
Project Financing by Financier
Federation          US$7.96
Republic of Srpska  US$3.57
IDA                 US$30.00
Total               US$41.53 million
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 41.53 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 72.24% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 28 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Road Management and Safety Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows                     Fiscal Impact
Economic      Financial Analysis'
._________  .Analysis                          Taxes          Subsidies
Benefits:              96.21 MKM
Costs:                 70.88 MKM
Net Benefits:         25.33 MKM
IRR:                        21.7%
l
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The economic evaluation has been carried out on that part of the project which comprises road
maintenance, rehabilitation and safety improvements for the main and regional road network. This
component accounts for about 90 percent of total project costs. The remaining, which is allocated
mainly to the institutional strengthening of the Entity Road Directorates, including technical
assistance, support and training, is considered to be a prerequisite for the development of the
Road Directorates into modem and efficient organizations. No formalized economic analysis has
been carried out for that part of the project.
Main Assumptions:
The calculations have been run on the road sections to be maintained/rehabilitated under the project. The
project case has been compared to an assumed, likely situation that would exist without the project. This
would basically be characterized by an absence of interventions until a complete resurfacing would be
warranted. Given the conditions at hand, this would have to be done within four to five years. In the
meantime the road conditions would deteriorate, leading to increasing vehicle operating costs and travel
times.
The economic analyses have been carried out using classical methods of evaluating and comparing costs
and benefits of road improvements. The costs and benefits have been calculated as the differences in the
without and with the project case. The investments made under the project lead to improved pavements,
which contribute to decreased vehicle operating, passenger time and maintenance costs. The black spot
corrections, which are included in some of the sections, concem punctual interventions, for example to
rectify a curve or to improve a sight distance. The effect is to improve traffic safety by removing a hazard
in that particular location, but the effect cannot be quantified with any reasonable degree of credibility in
- 29 -



the existing conditions. Consequently, no ERR was computed for this subcomponent.
The situation with respect to input data has been improving in the past few years with valuable information
about traffic volumes and patterns, vehicle fleet composition and use, coming from the Transport Master
Plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The vehicle operating costs are now derived directly from the actual
vehicle fleets and actual costs in the country whereas up till now use had been made of information from
neighboring countries. Although limited in scope and duration, traffic counts have been carried out
systematically in 2000, the first in about ten years.
However much still remains conjectural. There is for example no measured data for the pavement condition
generally and for the roughness of the pavements in particular. Use has been made of various inspections
and assessments undertaken both in the Federation and in RS. These estimates by necessity imply a high
degree of subjectivity and the observations are not always internally consistent. Thus there are limitations,
inherent to the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina at this time, but the work that has been done for the
economic evaluation has considerably improved on the previous situation.
In the Federation the economic evaluation of the sections included in the project has been carried out by the
Institute of Traffic at the Faculty for Civil Engineering in Sarajevo (Study of Economic Viability for
Rehabilitation of Highways in the Region of Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sarajevo, September
2001). The same methodology has also been applied to the RS project components. Among the more
important assumptions, traffic volumes have been assumed to increase by 3.5% pa which is in accordance
with the conclusions of the Transport Master Plan and which cannot be considered excessive, rather they
seem to be on the conservative side considering what seems (but without the support of systematic counts)
to have been much higher increases over the past few years. For other civil works components of the
investment program, mainly the reconstruction or rehabilitation of bridges and tunnel lighting, the rates of
return are expected to be high since damaged bridges are critical bottlenecks causing long detours and/or
waiting times. Tunnel lighting has an important positive effect on traffic safety. The detailed assumption
and calculations are shown in the studies mentioned above. The table below shows detailed results of the
calculations.
- 30 -



C. Sct o.~'&~.:  2 Cst  ~2OO~  'ERR    NP
-Cost   .ji2000'            1 -@Z%--.  -ERR Sensitivity
. .  ' 't.^, ^ -r . Ml  IADT             (M: - . M 
_____  ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   j~~j -    k--,cost*20%             traffic-20%
Federation
Sicki Brod to Entity border  3.00    7630     20.6      1.25       17.7          15.9
Sicki Brod to Doboi          2.46    8520     33.0      1.46       24.0          22.1
Lasva to Entity border       5.00    7040     26.7      2.03       18.4          16.7
Lasva to Kula                1.57   13280     29.7      0.77       21.0          19.2
Gorica to Neum               1.62    3860     32.1      0.91       23.2          21.3
Posusje to Mostar            1.69    5270     23.4      0.52       15.4          13.7
Livno to Posusje             2.52    2410     19.0      0.47       11.5           9.9
Strmica to Livno             3.51     790     14.0      0.18        7.0           5.5
Bihac to Srbljani            1.53    2500     17.4      0.22       10.0           8.5
Karuse to Lasva              5.76    7240     27.5      2.46       19.1          17.3
Stupska petlja to Jablanica  3.71    7930     31.2      2.01       22.4          20.6
Jablanica to Mostar          1.44    5810     30.4      0.75       21.8          19.4
Mostar to Doljani            1.62    4230     22.4      0.46       14.6          12.9
Sicki Brod to Loncari        2.00    8270     33.2      1.20       24.1          22.3
Sicki Brod to Krivajevici    4.20    4870     19.9      0.89       12.4          10.8
Krivajevici to Sarajevo      2.57    5290     23.6      0.81       15.6          13.9
Suica to Tunel Kupres        1.78    3100     17.5      0.26       10.2           8.6
DonjiVakuf to Tunel Kupres   1.42    3900     18.7      0.26       11.3           9.7
Livno to Tomislav Grad       1.27    2500     26.8      0.52       18.5          16.8
Vel Brusnica to Odzak        1.46    1940     20.9      0.35       13.2          11.6
Vel Kladusu to Srbljani      1.95    2090     16.5      0.23        9.2           7.7
Ustikolina to Gorazde        1.30    1500     13.1      0.04        6.2           4.8
Republika Srpska
Novi Grad to Prijedor        2.00    4500     40.0      1.93       31.7          29.9
Koz Dubiza to Gradiska       2.00    1300     15.8      0.23       10.2           9.0
Karanovac to Ugar            3.50     600     18.4      0.35       12.5          11.3
Prnjavor to Rudanka          1.50    1000     19.6      0.34       13.6          12.3
Doboj to Petrovo             2.00     800     24.7      0.41       18.2          16.7
Priboj to Lopare             1.00    2000     34.0      0.37       26.4          24.7
Caparde to Karakaj           1.00    6500     73.6      2.34       60.8          58.1
Konjevic Polje to Srebrenica  2.50   2100     21.3      0.73       15.1          13.8
Kula to Vraca                1.00    2100     24.4      0.20       17.9          16.5
Dobro Polje to Kalinovik     1.00    1500     23.9      0.38       17.4          16.0
All of the analyzed road sections have ERR's above 12%. The ERR's range is from 13.1% to 73.6% with
- 31 -



the mean being 25.4%. Generally those sections with low present traffic levels, below 1000 AADT, have
rates of return at the lower end of the spectrum. This is quite natural and reflects the fact that some of the
road sections, although important, are of a secondary character with limited traffic.
In order to verify these results, the mission has also run an analysis using HDM 4. The ERR's so
calculated were generally higher than those calculated in the Study of Economic Viability described above.
Without arguing the relative merits or the appropriateness of using the HDM 4 in the context of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, where road condition data is relatively limited, the results show that the ERR's arrived at in
the Study of Economic Viability do not overstate the viability but rather that conservative assumptions
have been used with corresponding results.
Overall, the project in its entirety has an ERR of 21.7% and a NPV, at 12% discount rate, of 25.33 MKM.
Conclusions
All the components considered are economically justified, having ERR's above 12%. The project in its
entirety has an ERR of 21.7% and an NPV, at 12%, of 25.33 MKM.
The summary of benefits and costs is given in the table below.
Federation         Republic of Srpska         Overall
Benefits (MKM)                 71.43                  24.78                 96.21
Costs (MKM)                    53.38                  17.50                 70.88
Net Benefits (MKM)              18.05                 7.28                  25.33
IRR %                           19.8                  27.4                   21.7
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Two sensitivity analyses have been carried out. One assumes a 20% increase in construction costs, and the
other a 20% decrease in traffic relative to the values assumed. The results are shown in the two right hand
columns in the detailed results table above. Increasing construction costs by 20% still leaves most of the
sections above 12% ERR. Roughly the same reductions of the ERR's occur with the decrease of traffic by
20%. Those sections which fall below do so by relatively small margins. The one section which shows the
most significant reduction in viability is the Ustikolina to Gorazde road which also has the lowest base case
ERR of 13%, which is reduced to 5-6% with the assumed traffic decreases/construction cost increases.
This section should be carefully watched during the design and bidding phases.
- 32 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Road Management and Safety Project
Years Ending
December 31
IMPLEMENTATION-                          :'
| Year 1| Year 2    | Year 3   | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           1.4       8.3       12.5      11.0       6.9       1.4       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs          1.4       8.3       12.5      11.0       6.9       1.4       0.0
,Total Financing             1.4       8.3       12.5      11.0       6.9        1.4      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  1.0        6.0       9.0       8.0       5.0       1.0       0.0
Government                0.4        2.3       3.5       3.0       1.9       0.4       0.0
Central                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     1.4       8.3       12.5      11.0       6.9       1.4       0.0
Main assumptions:
VAT is not included in the above projections.
- 33 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Road Management and Safety Project
Procurement
Civil works, goods and services to be financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 and
"Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in
January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The project elements, their
estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in Tables A and B1. The thresholds for
each procurement method and Bank prior review are shown in Table B. A procurement plan
detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement actions is also enclosed in
Table B 1. The disbursement schedule is shown as Table C.
The Project will be carried out by the two Road Directorates (RD), one in the Federation and the
other one in the Republic of Srpska. RS Road Directorate (RSRD) will also handle the
procurement of Road Corporation (BRIC), a joint establishment of two entities. Federation Road
Directorate (FBHRD) will participate in the evaluation committees regarding the procurement
carried out on behalf of BRIC. Each RD will be staffed with a minimum of one procurement
specialist (a condition of effectiveness) and one procurement assistant to ensure that procurement
is undertaken efficiently, in a timely manner, and in accordance with the Bank guidelines.
1. Procurement of Civil Works
Civil Works (US$ 36.63 million) will be procured as follows:
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB): All works contracts estimated to cost over
US$500,000 equivalent per contract will be procured through ICB.
(b) National Competitive Bidding (NCB): Works contracts estimated to cost less than
US$500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.0 millon
equivalent, may be procured through NCB.
2. Procurement of Goods
Goods(US$0.78 million), will be procured in package sizes that will encourage Intemational
Competitive Bidding.
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB): Goods contracts estimated to be above
US$100,000 equivalent per contract will be procured through ICB.
(b) International Shopping (IS): Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate of US$ 0.21 million equivalent may be procured through IS.
3. Procurement of Technical Services
Technical Services (US$ 0.21 million) such as TV / Radio braodcasting of public information for
Road Safety related Emergency Medical Care component will be procured through NCB.
(a) National Competitive Bidding (NCB): Technical services contracts estimated to cost less
- 34 -



than US$250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$0.25
millon equivalent, may be procured through NCB. ECA sample bidding document for procurement
of minor works will be used after customizing to fit into this procurement.
4. Selection Procedures for Consulting Services
Contracts for Consulting Services will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines "Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999. The following methods of selection will be followed:
(a) Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for consultant services.
(b) Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures will be used for consultant services such as financial
audits, pavement condition survey, construction supervision, etc. to cost less than US$ 100,000
equivalent per contract.
(c) Selection based on Consultants Qualifications (CQ) will be used for very small consultant
assignments such as preparation of public information, training design, legal TA, etc. to cost less
than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract.
(d) Individual Consultant selection (ICS) procedures will be used for assignments which meet the
criteria specified in Section V of the Guidelines.
5. Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in the August 16, 2001 issue of the
Development Business and will be updated annually if there are any outstanding ICB tenders and
all outstanding large consulting assignments above $200,000 thereafter. For consultant contracts
above US$200,000, a Request for Expressions of Interest will be published in Development
Business, as well as in a local newspaper of wide circulation. The Invitation to Bid for civil works
and goods contracts will be advertised as per the requirements of the Bank Guidelines.
Procurement methods (Table A)
- 35 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB          Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                           35.63           1.00         0.00         0.00       36.63
(24.94)         (0.70)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (25.64)
2. Goods                           0.57            0.00         0.21         0.00        0.78
(0.57)         (0.00)        (0.21)       (0.00)      (0.78)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00         3.91         0.00        3.91
(0.00)         (0.00)        (3.43)       (0.00)      (3.43)
4. Technical Services              0.00            0.21         0.00         0.00        0.21
(0.00)         (0.15)        (0.00)       (0.00)     (0.15)
Total                           36.20           1.21          4.12         0.00       41.53
(25.51)         (0.85)       (3.64)       (0.00)      (30.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through consulting services, training, technical assistance
services.
- 36 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS  QBS      SFB    LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost.
A. Firms              2.96    0.00    0.00   0.85     0.05    0.00    0.00     3.86
(2.60)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.75)  (0.04)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (3.39)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.05    0.00    0.05
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.04)  (0.00)  (0.04)
Total  2.96    0.00    0.00    0.85    0.05    0.05    0.00     3.91
1 (2.60)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.75)  (0.04)  (0.04)  (0.00)  (3.43)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 37 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement: Any revision in the procurement plan for the project by the Road
Directorates will be reviewed by the Association,before inviting bids, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Annex I of the procurement guidelines. Procurement of civil works, goods and services for
the project will be modified as appropriate and included in the progress reports subject to Bank review.
Prior Review: (a) Goods: All ICB and the first IS contract of each Road Directorate will be subject to
prior review; (b) Civil Works: All ICB contracts, and first 2 NCB contracts of each Road Directorate will
be subject to prior review; (c) Technical Services: First contract in each Road Directorate will be subject
to prior review, (d) Consulting Services: Terms of reference for all consulting assignments will be
subject to prior review. Request for Proposals (RFP), shortlists, terms and condition of contracts as well
as evaluation reports and recommendation for award will be prior reviewed for contracts for individual
consultants above $50,000 equivalent and firms above $100,000 equivalent.
Ex-post review: During Bank supervision missions, not less than 1 in 5 tenders not subject to Bank prior
review will be examined ex-post.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                     $500,000 or >            All for ICB                35.63
<$500,000         First two NCB contracts in       0.20
each RD
2. Goods                     $100,000 or>               All ICB                  0.57
<$ 100,000       First IS contract in each RD      0.11
3. Services               >$100,000 for firms      All QCBS or LCS               3.81
>$50,000 for individuals  Individual selection
4. Technical Services         <$250,000         First NCB contract in each       0.21
RD
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $ 40.53million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Table BH: Procurement Arrangements and Time Schedule
- 38 -



Major Procurement               Description                    No. of Type' Est.   Proc.     Doc.   lnvit. to  Bid   Contract   Contract
Packages                                                   Cont.       Cost   Method2  Prepar.   Bid    Opening   Award    Complet
.  USSm                      _
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehabilitation of Sicki Brod-Simin Han- Gr.   I    W    1.52    ICB    Apr-02   May-02   Jun-02  Jul-02     Dec-02
Ent road
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Lasva - Jajce - Gr. Ent. Road       I    W    1.51    ICB    Apr-02   May-02  Jun-02    Jul-02    Dec-02
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Gorica - Caplina - Gr. Ent.and      1    W    0.50    ICB    May-02   June-02  Jul-02   Jul-02    Dec-02
Prolaz kroz Neum Road
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Bihac - Srbinja and B. Grupa -      I    W    0.69    ICB    May-02   June-02  Jul-02   Jul-02    Dec-02
Gudavac roads
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Karuse- Lasva road                  1    W    2.60    ICB     Jun-02  Jul-02  Aug-02    Sep-02    Jun-03
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Krivajevici - Sarajevo road         I    W    1.40    ICB     Jun-02  Jul-02  Aug-02    Sep-02    Jun-03
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Vel. Brusnica - Odzak and Gr. Ent.  I    W    0.64    ICB     Jul-02  Aug-02  Oct-02   Dec-02    Aug-03
- Gradacac - Gr. Entity roads                      ___                             _
Civil Works (Fed)  Rehab. of Ustikolina - Gorazde - Gr. Ent. road  I   W    0.59    ICB     Jul-02  Aug-02  Oct-02   Dec-02     Aug-03
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab, of Lasva- Stupska petija - Kula road   I    W    0.75    ICB    Dec-02    Jan-03  Mar-03  Apr--03    Dec-03
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Livno - Kolo- Posusje road          I    W    1.14    ICB    Dec-02    Jan-03  Mar-03  Apr--03    Dec-03
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of B. Grahova - Livno and B. Grahova   I    W    1.49    ICB    Nov-02   Dec-02  Feb-03   Mar-03     Nov-03
- Strmica roadsII
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Stupska petlja - Jablanica road     I    W    1.58    ICB    Nov-02   Dec-02  Feb-03   Mar-03    Nov-03
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Sicki Brod - Krivajevici road       I    W    1.80    ICB    Dec-02   Jan-03  Mar-03    Apr--03   Dec-03
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of V. Kladusa - Srbljani road          1    W    0.88    ICB    Dec-02   Jan-03  Mar-03   Apr-03     Dec-03
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Tunnel lightings                    1    W    1.07    ICB    Dec-02    Jan-03  Mar-03  Apr--03    Dec-03
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Sicki Brod - Gracanica - Gr. Ent.   I    W    1.12    ICB    Nov-03   Dec-03  Feb-04   Mar-04     Nov-04
Road
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Posusje - Mostar road               I    W    0.77    ICB    Nov-03   Dec-03  Feb-04   Mar-04     Nov-04
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Jablanica - Mostar road             I    W    0.64    ICB    Dec-03    Jan-04  Mar-04  Apr-04     Dec-04
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Mostar - Doljani road               I    W    0.73    ICB    Dec-03    Jan-04  Mar-04  Apr-04     Dec-04
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Arizona - S. Brod and Orasje -      I    W    0.91    ICB    Dec-03    Jan-04  Mar-04  Apr-04     Dec-04
Loncari roads
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Suica - Tunel Kupres road           1    W    0.81    ICB    Dec-03    Jan-04  Mar-04  Apr-04     Dec-04
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of D. Vakuf- T. Kupres road            I    W    0.64    ICB    Dec-03    Jan-04  Mar-04  Apr-04     Dec-04
Civil Works (Fed)   Rehab. of Livno - Suica - T. Grad road        I    W    0.59    ICB    Dec-03    Jan-04  Mar-04  Apr-04     Dec-04
Civil Works (RS)    Rehab. of N. Grad- Prijedor road              I    W    1.12    ICB     Feb-02  May-02 Jun-02     Jul-02    Dec-02
Civil Works (RS)    Rehab. of Doboj - Petrova road                I    W    1.12    ICB     Feb-02  May-02 Jun-02     Jul-02    Dec-02
Civil Works (RS)    Rehab. of Caparde - Karakaj road              I    W    0.50    ICB     Feb-02  May-02 Jun-02     Jul-02    Dec-02
Civil Works (RS)    Rehab. of Kula - Vraca road                   1    W    0.50    ICB     Feb-02  May-02  Jun-02    Jul-02    Dec-02
Civil Works (RS)    Rehab. of Tunnel lights                       3    W    1.61    ICB     Feb-02 MayO2    Jun-02    ul-02     Dec-02
Nov-02   Jan-03  Mar-03   Apr.-03    Oct-03
Nov-03    Jan-04  Mar-04  Apr.-04    Oct-04
Civil Works (RS)    Rehab. of Karanovac - Kenzevo-Ugar road       I    W     1.80   ICB    rov-02    Jan-03  Mar-03  Apr-03    Dec-03
Civil Works (RS)   Rehab. of Priboj - Lopare road                 I    W    0.50    ICB    Nov-02    Jan-03  Mar-03  Apr-03    Dec-03
Civil Works (RS)   Rehab. of K. Polje - Bratunac - Kalinovik road  I   W    1.23    ICB    Nov-02    Jan-03  Mar-03  Apr-03    Dec-03
Civil Works (RS)    Rehab. of K. Dubica - Gradiska Road           I    W    1.12    ICB     Oct-03   Jan-04  Mar-04  Mar-04    Oct-04
Civil Works (RS)   Rehab. of Pmjavor - Dragalovici - Rudanska     1    W    0.76    ICB     Oct-03   Jan-04  Mar-04  Mar-04    Oct-04
road                                                                   I
Civil Works (RS)   Rehab. of D. Polije - Kalinovik road           1    W    0.50    ICB    Nov-03    Jan-04  Mar-04             Oct-04
Civil Works (RS)   Recons. of Ugar Bridge                         I    W    0.50    ICB    Nov-03    Jan-04  Mar-04  Apr-04     Oct-04
Civil Works (Fed)  Recons. of damaged bridges                    10    W    1.00    NCB
TOTAL                                                                       36.63
WORKS
Goods (Fed)        Office Equipment and furniture for Federation  2    G    0.05     IS    Aug-02   Sep-02  Sep-02    Oct-02   Nov-02
RD
Goods (Fed)        Procurement of weighscales for Fed. RD         I    G    0.06      s    Ju1-02   Aug-02  Sept-02  Oct-02     Jan-03
Goods (Fed)        Proc. Of traffic counters for Fed. RD          I    G    0.32    ICB    Mar-03   Apr-03  Jun-03   Aug-03    Dec-03
Goods (Fed)        Proc. Of Rutting Measurement Device for Fed.   I    G    0.05     Is     Feb-03  Apr-03  May-03   Jun-03    Aug-03
_ _ _ _ _  _   ~~~RD                                                                  I_                             _
Goods (BRIC)        Office Eqpt.                                  I    G    0.05     iS     Jul-02  Aug-02   Sept-02  Oct-02    Dec-02
- 39 -



Goods (RS)          Road Measuring Equipment                     I    G     0.25   ICB    Sept-02  Nov-02  Jan-02   Mar-02    Sept-02
TOTAL                                                                       0.78
GOODS
Technical Services  Media Time                                   1     S    0.14    NCB   Sep-02   Oct-02  Dec-02   Feb-03    Feb-04
(Fed)
Technical Services  Media Time                                   1     S    0.07    NCB    Sep-02  Oct-02  Dec-02   Feb-03    Feb-04
(RS)
TOTAL                                                                       0.21
TECHNICAL
SERVICES
Consultants (Fed)   Design of Roads and Bridges Data Base        1     S    0.43   QCBS   Aug-02   Sept-02  Nov-02  Dec-02     Dec-03
Consultants (Fed)   Contract Supervision                        24     S    0.45    LCS
Consultants (Fed)  Survey of Pavement Condition                   I    S    0.21   QCBS    Nov-03  Dec-03  Feb-04   Apr-04    Jul-04
Consultants (Fed)  Traffic Management and Safety, including       I    S    0.32    QCBS   ul-03   Aug-03  Sep-03   Dec-03    Dec-04
Monitoring and Evaluation
Consultants (Fed)  Procurement Specialist                         1    S    0.05     ICS   Apr-02  Apr-02  May-02   May-02    Dec-04
Consultants (Fed)  Environmental Monitoring and Supervision       I    S    0.10   QCBS    Apr-02  May-02  Jul-02   Aug-02    Dec-04
Consultants (Fed)  Public Information, clinical input            2     S    0.02     CQ    Jun-02  Jul-02  Sep-02   Oct-02    Dec-02
Consultants (RS)   Contract Supervision                          10    S    0.20    LCS
Consultants (RS)    Preparation of Road Data Bank                I     S    0.50   QCBS    Aug-03  Sept-03  Nov-03  Dec-03    Dec-04
Consultants (RS)    Survey of Pavement Condition                 1     S    0.10    LCS   Nov-03   Dec-03  Feb-04   Apr-04    Jul-04
Consultants (RS)   Environemental Monitoring and Supervision      1    S    0.10   QCBS    Apr-02  May-02  Jul-02   Aug-02    Dec-04
Consultants (RS)   Traffic Management and Safety, including      1     S    0.50   QCBS   Jul-03   Aug-03  Oct-03   Dec-03    Dec-04
Monitoring and Evaluation
Consultants (RS)   Bridges Data Bank                             I     S    0.35   QCBS    Aug-03  Sept-03  Nov-03  Dec-03    Dec-04
Consultants (RS)   Public Information, clinical input            2     S    0.02     CQ    Jun-02  Jul-02  Sep-02   Oct-02    Dec-02
Consultants (RS) for Prep. of Road Design, construction and      3     S    0.45    QCBS   Aug-02                    Nov-02   Dec-02
BRIC               maintenance standards and concession capacity
Consultants        Project Financial Audits                      5     S     10     LCS
(Federation and RS)
TOTAL                                                                       3.91
CONSULTANTS                                                                                   _
1) G for Goods, W for Works, S for Services
2) ICB for International Competitive Bidding, NCB for National Competitive Bidding, MW for Minor
Works, QCBS for Quality and Cost Based Selection, LCS for Least Cost Selection, ICS for
Individual Consultant Selection
Brief Statement
A capacity assessment of the Borrower was conducted during the project appraisal. The respective procurement
units of the Borrower in Federation and RS have limited experience with Bank procurement. Therefore, an action
plan was prepared to enable the Borrower to conduct procurement under the project in accordance with Bank
procurement procedures. This plan includes: (i) hiring one procurement specialist in each Road Directorate to
conduct procurement under the project (latest by the project effectiveness (June 2002), (ii) use of Bank standard
bidding documents under the project; and (iii) organizing a project launch workshop around project effectiveness
(May 2002).
Country Procurement Assessment Report: under preparation.
Training Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated Date of Project Launch Workshop: May 2002
Date of publication of General Procurement Notice: August 16, 2001.
-40 -



Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business:
Yes, for hiring the technical assistance consultant for the preparation of design, supervision and maintenance
standards and design of roads data base.
Domestic Preference for Goods: Yes
Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable: No
Retroactive Financing: No.
Explain:
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
11 project documentation which requires prior review will be cleared by a PAS and the relevant technical staff.
RS Road Directorate has already hired a procurement specialist with previous experience on procurement under
Bank projects and the Federation Road Directorate is identifying the candidates for the procurement specialist
position with Bank procurement experience in other Bank projects in Bosnia. Procurement information will be
collected and recorded by the Road Directorates and submitted to the Bank as part of the quarterly progress reports
prepared by them. This information would include: (a) revised cost estimates for individual contracts; (b) revised
timing of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award and completion time for individual
contracts; and (c) compliance with aggregate limits on specific methods of procurement.
Cofinancing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing: N/A
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the
Proj ect:
Name: Ahmet Gokce Extension :32 505
xplain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: The Field Office will provide support to the
project team during project implementation.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 41 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million       Financing Percentage
A. Part A of the Project (the Federation
of BiH); Subtotal US$20.00 million
1. Works                                 17.69                        70%
2. Goods                                  0.51          100% of foreign expenditures and 80%
Federation: US$0.48 million                              of local expenditures for Federation;
BRIC: US$0.03 million                                   67% of foreign expenditures and 53.3%
of local expenditures for BRIC
3. Consultant Services and Training       1.65           88% for Federation; 58.7% for BRIC
Federation: US$1.39 million
BRIC: US$0.26 million
4. Technical Services                     0.10                        70%
5. Operating Costs                        0.05                        88%
B. Part B of the Project (Republic of
Srpska); Subtotal US$10.00 million
1. Works                                  7.95                        70%
2. Goods                                  0.27          100% of foreign expenditures and 80%
RS: US$0.25 million                                      of local expenditures for RS; 33% of
BRIC: US$0.02 million                                    foreign expenditures and 26.7% for
BRIC
3. Consultant Services and Training       1.68              88% for RS; 29.3% for BRIC
RS: US$1.55 million
BRIC: US$0.13 million
4. Technical Services                     0.05                        70%
5. Operating Costs                        0.05                        88%
Total Project Costs                      30.00
Total                                     30.00
-42 -



Annex 6b: Financial Management Assessment Report
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Road Management and Safety Project
1.     Executive Summary and Conclusion.
Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) is an emerging post-conflict country with weak public financial
management capacities and high perceived levels of institutional corruption. The Road Management and
Safety project is one of the first Bank projects in BiH to be managed within the structure of government
departments. Most previous Bank projects have been "ring fenced" with separate PIUs. The objective of
integrating the project management into the respective government departments is to begin the process of
building longer-term sustainability of project management capacity. Given the higher inherent risks during
this transition, the financial management arrangements for the project have been designed to compensate
for the institutional weaknesses by having separate finance and accounting units within the respective
Roads Directorates, staffed by qualified personnel and with independent accounting systems and controls.
An assessment of the Financial Management arrangements for the project was undertaken during appraisal
to determine whether the financial management arrangements within two Entities Road Directorates are
acceptable to the Bank. These financial management arrangements include the entities' systems of
accounting, financial reporting, auditing, and internal controls.
Detailed financial management assessment questionnaires are included in the project files. A surnmary of
the conclusions are as follows:
_  Rating        Comments
1. Implementing Entity                  Satisfactory
2. Funds Flow                            Satisfactory
3. Staffing                             Satisfactory
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures   Satisfactory
5. Internal Audit                       NA             No reliance placed on internal
audit
6. External Audit                       Satisfactory   The project will be audited
under a country-wide general
audit agreement
7. Reporting and Monitoring             Satisfactory
8. Information Systems                  Marginally     Action plan item - some mino
Satisfactory   modifications for revised FMR
Overal Financlal Management Rating      Satisfactory
Conclusion
Taking into consideration the assessment of the financial management systems and processes and the
assessment of risks and mitigating measures, the financial management arrangements for the Entities Road
Directorates are considered capable of satisfactorily recording all transactions and balances, supporting the
preparation of regular and reliable financial statements, safeguarding the entities' assets, and are subject to
auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank.
-43 -



2.     Summary Project Description
The project development objective is to improve traffic flow and reduce accident rates on the country's road
network through rehabilitation of priority road sections associated with identified poor road condition and
accident black spots'.
The project, to be supported by a $30 million IDA credit and a Government contribution of $11.5 million,
consists of two components: (a) Road rehabilitation and safety (US$36.6 million) and (b) Institutional
Strengthening (US$4.90 million). Details of the components are included in Annex 2 of this PAD.
3.     Country issues
A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Bosnia and Herzegovina was completed in
August 2001. The draft CFAA report identified issues of extremely weak public sector Public Sector
Budgeting, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing. The draft CFAA report also identified an environment of
pervasive corruption at all levels of the economy.
In view of the above, the draft CFAA report concluded that it remained appropriate to maintain the current
"ring fencing" of financial resources in Bank projects in order to provide the appropriate fiduciary
safeguards.  The draft CFAA report did, however identify the medium to longer term goal of
mainstreaming project management into Ministries and Department and to consolidate PIUs and refrain
from the creation of new PIUs.
The governing system in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) is complex and comprises thirteen government
levels with appropriate legislative and fiscal powers. These are: the State of BiH (State); Federation
Bosnia and Herzegovina (Federation); Republic of Srpska (RS); and ten cantons (Canton) of the
Federation.  Below the canton level, there are traditional local Council of Ministers-cities and
municipalities. In addition there is the Bracko District (under the State) and the OHR.
4.     Risk Analysis
A summary of the consolidated risk assessment for the project is as follows:
Risk           Comments
Inherent Risk
1. Country Financial Management Risk    High           Based on draft 2001 CFAA
report
2. Project Financial Management Issues  Substantial
3. Banking sector                      High           Weak banking sector in the RS
4. Perceived corruption                High           Draft CFAA   report in 2001
notes pervasive corruption at all
levels of the economy.
5. Counterpart funds                   High           A higher level of govermnent
contribution  than  in  prior
projects.
Overall Inherent Risk                  High                                    X
-44 -



Control Risk
1. Implementing Entity                  Substantial
2. Funds Flow                           Moderate
3. Staffing                            Moderate
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Moderate
5. Intemal Audit                       N/A
6. Extemal Audit                       Negligible
7. Reporting and Monitoring            Negligible
8. Information Systems                 Negligible
Overall Control Risk                    Moderate
Risk mitigation strategy:
Country financial management risk - the draft CFAA report notes that there are very weak financial
structures in govemment departments. To compensate, expenditures for the roads project in both Entities
will be controlled and accounted for by a separate unit within the respective Roads Directorate.
Banking sector risk - the special accounts for the project will be held in acceptable commercial banks
outside the BiH.
Perceived corruption risk - the Bank's financial resources are used for a relatively small number of specific
contracts which allows for close monitoring by the Bank. The implementation of the contracts will be
monitored, including ensuring that the funds have been used for the intended purpose, at least twice each
year during supervision missions and by regular monitoring by the country-based FMS.
Counterpart funds risk - the Credit Agreement specifies an initial deposit of the Govemment's contribution
and assurances have been given that govemment counterpart funds will be budgeted and advance on a
regular basis. Close monitoring will still be required.
The financial risks will also be mitigated by the institutional strengthening component of the project
including; improving the supervision capacity within the Roads Directorates, requirements for technical
audit reports, increasing the privatization of contractors and the involvement of local communities in
providing feedback on the civil works. Financial risks are also mitigated by the procurement arrangements
which result in some 87% of contract value to be subject to ICB and some 97% of contract value to be
subject to prior review by the Bank.
5.     Strengths and Weaknesses
Strengths
The Project design is simple and straightforward. Approximately 91% of anticipated project expenditures
are covered by 38 civil works contracts and 99% of anticipated project expenditures are covered by some
60 specific contracts. The limited number of contracts allows for closer monitoring of contract execution.
The Bank has accumulated experience through the implementation of two previous emergency road
projects, ETRP and the SETRP.
-45 -



Weaknesses
Moving the implementation unit into the Ministries, rather that operating a stand alone PIU, may make
more difficult to attract and retain good financial staff as the government salary levels are lower than the
levels paid to PIU staff.
6.     Implementing Entities
The IDA Credit will be lent to Bosnia and Herzegovina, who will on-lend the proceeds of the Credit to the
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to the RS. The proposed Credit is a single operation with three
parts, one in each Entity (one in the RS and the other in the Federation) implemented through the respective
Roads Directorates, the Republic of Srpska Road Directorate (RSRD) and the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina Roads Directorate (FBHRD) and a third, relatively small element (US$500,000), through the
Bosnia and Herzegovina Road Infrastructure Public Corporation (BRIC) an inter-Entity corporation
dealing with common road transportation issues. The BRIC element will be administered through the two
Entity Road Directorates. The previous Bank road projects, the ETRP and the SETRP were implemented
through the stand alone PlUs. The current Road project will be implemented within the respective Entity
Roads Directorates. Some of the staff who have experience with implementing the previous road projects
have been transferred to the Roads Directorates.
7.     Funds Flow
There will be two IDA Special Accounts established, one for the FBHRD and the other for the RSRD. The
IDA Special Accounts will be held in commercial banks acceptable to IDA. There will be a separate
Government Counterpart Funds accounts for the FBHRD and the RSFD set up in commercial banks. The
FBHRD and the RSRD will make all payments for the project and maintain vouchers and supporting
documentation for expenditures for project activities. The FBHRD and the RSRD will maintain local
accounts in EURO for foreign currency payments and local accounts in KM for local currency payments.
An maximum advance of two weeks estimated IDA share of expenditures is allowed from the IDA Special
Accounts.
8.     Staffing
Federation staffing
Within the FBHRD a PMU has been established. The PMU is led by a Project Director who will have
overall responsibilities for the day-to-day implementation. The PMU includes a financial manager who is
responsible for financial matters including monitoring that the financial covenants of the Credit agreement..
The PMU will engage an Accountant to be responsible for maintaining the accounting system together with
a financial assistant and a procurement officer. The staffing levels and qualifications are satisfactory for
the implementation of the project. As with other projects in BiH there is a risk of not being able to attract
and retain qualified staff given the remuneration levels in Federation government.
RS staffing
The RS will implement the project within the RS Road Directorate. The Director of the PIU which
managed the previous Bank financed roads project has transferred to the RSRD as Deputy Director. The
RSRD has engaged a financial manager on contract to be responsible for managing and carrying out the
financial management responsibilities. This financial manager has extensive experience in other Bank
projects where he has performed satisfactorily. There remains a risk of retaining qualified and competent
staff, in view of proposals to limit the fees that extemal PIU staff can charge internationally funded
- 46 -



projects.
9.     Accounting Policies and Procedures
At present the accounting practices and standards within the two Entity Council of Ministers are not yet at
acceptable levels. The draft CFAA report indicated that "the budget classification structures, the chart of
accounts and the reporting formats are duly explained in a Rule Book issued in 1999. However, only few,
simpler elements of the new structures are being implemented. A group of IAS-based accounting standards
have been officially adopted and are presented in the Rule Book, but existing accounting practices do not
actually follow them. In fact, pure cash bookkeeping is in place, supplemented by a fragmented,
rudimentary commitment tracking system, not integrated with the overall accounting system."
There is a separate project underway, financed by USAID, to strengthen financial management in the
Entity Council of Ministers.
In view of the above, project accounting will be maintained separately within the Roads Directorates and
will comply with International Accounting Standards. The local accounting standards, which are based
closely on International Accounting Standards, have been adopted by the Federation from January 1, 1999.
Donor agencies are currently providing training to local accountants to familiarize them with the new
standards.
Accounting procedures are set out in detail in separate Financial Management Manuals for the Federation
and for the RS. The financial manuals cover: (a) the financial management system proposed under the
project, with special emphasis on accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal controls; (b) the
role of the financial management systems in project management and implementation; (c) the accounting
arrangements required for project management, the format for and content of project financial reporting; (d)
the auditing arrangements that will be used during project implementation, and (e) budgeting and planning.
The Financial Management Manuals have been reviewed by the Bank and are assessed as being
satisfactory.
10.   Internal Audit
There is no intemal audit function in the unit. The project may be subject to audits by the newly
established Supreme Audit Institutions (SAI) as they become operational. At this time, however, no
reliance is being placed on any internal financial reviews.
11.    External Audit
Annual audits for the project accounts will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank. The audit reports will be in a format in
accordance with the Intemational Standards on Auditing promulgated by the International Federation of
Accountants (IFAC). The audit reports will include a separate opinion on the operation of the Special
Accounts and on disbursements made on the basis of SOEs. The audited financial statements, including the
audit of the special accounts, and SOEs will be sent to the Bank within six (6) months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year.
-47 -



There are government-wide audit arrangements covering all Bank financed projects in BiH (with the
exception of revenue earning entities). The State Ministry of Treasury of Institutions of BiH has recently
renewed a three-year contract (2001-2003) with PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Netherlands for the audits of
World Bank financed projects. The Roads Project will be included on the list of projects audited under the
master audit agreement with PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Netherlands.
12.    Reporting and Monitoring
The Entities will maintain separate financial records for their parts of the Project and will ensure
appropriate accounting for the funds provided.
The Entities will prepare and submit Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) in a form and frequency agreed
with the Bank. The FMRs will be customized to reflect the country circumstances and the needs of the
project, while meeting the Bank's minimum information requirements for the financial monitoring of the
Project.
Approximately 91% of Project expenditures are planned for a limited number (some 38) civil works
contracts, with a additional 8% of Project expenditures relate to specific contracts for consulting services
and goods (some 20 contracts). The prime focus of financial monitoring will be the tracking of
disbursements relating to the above specific contract packages, which in the case of civil works also track
the physical progress of the Project.
The FMR will therefore include (a) statement of sources and uses of funds (b) a detailed schedule fro
tracking disbursements against specific contracts for civil works, goods and consultants services.
The projects will also prepare annual financial statements, in a form acceptable to the Bank, and these will
be submitted for external audit.
13.    Information Systems
The Entities will use separate information systems. In the Federation the software that will be used was
developed in LORA, another Bank financed project in the Federation. This accounting software system,
which uses Visual Basic Database, was developed by an external consultant a few years ago and
subsequently enhanced by LORA's MIS staff. It consists of the following modules: financial, procurement
and reporting. The financial modules include 4 sub-modules: Payments , Reports, Other Categories, and
Reports by Other Categories. The payments are entered into the system based on disbursement categories.
The reporting sub-modules allows the FBHRD to print detail reports and the financial statements. The
procurement module enables the FBHRD to enter all necessary information on procurement matters. The
financial software has adequate security levels. Based on the initial assessment the system meets the Bank's
minimum reporting requirement. In the RS an ACCESS data base software developed for other bank
projects will be used. Both software packages have been used successfully on other bank projects, however
they may need to have some minor modifications to adapt to the customized FMRs.
14.    Impact of procurement arrangements
The major part of the project is for a limited number of civil works projects (ie some 91% of project
expenditures). The contract packages and the procurement thresholds are set at levels which result in ICB
-48 -



processes for some 97% of civil works contracts and overall ICB some 87% of total project expenditures.
The ICB process mitigates some of the lack of transparency in national processes that were noted in the
draft CFAA report.
15.    Disbursement arrangements
It is expected that the proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed over a period of five years, which includes
six months for the completion of accounts and the submission of withdrawal applications. As there is no
standard disbursement profile for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the disbursement forecast is based on the
Bank's experience with financing similar projects in other ECA countries, and other projects in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The Project's Closing Date is estimated to be June 30, 2007.
Disbursement method
Disbursements from the IDA Credit will follow the transaction-based method ie the traditional Bank
procedures (reimbursements with full documentation, Statements of Expenditure (SOE), direct payments
and special commitments).
The CFAA for BiH, completed in August 2001 recommended that report-based disbursements (also known
as PMR-based disbursements) should not be introduced in the BiH portfolio at this stage because of
significant risks relating to (i) project financial management weaknesses and lack of capacity in PIUs; (ii)
the shaky banking system; and (iii) the unstable political situation and general govemance problems
presently affecting Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The Credit amount of $30 million funded by IDA will be allocated to the Federation of BiH and Republika
Srspka as indicated in Table C. Disbursements from the Credit proceeds would be administered by the
respective Road Directorates, i.e. FBHRD in the Federation and RSRD in Republic of Srpska. The
FBHRD and RSRD are responsible for retaining supporting documentation for SOEs and making them
available to IDA supervision missions, as well as to the auditors.
Disbursements against the categories described in Table C will be made upon receipt by IDA of fully
documented applications, except for contracts valued at: (i) less than US$100,000 for consulting firms; (ii)
less than US$50,000 for individual consultants; (iii) contracts for goods costing less than US$100,000
equivalent each, except for the first IS contract in each RD; (iv) contracts for works costing less than
US$500,000 equivalent each, except for the first two NCB contracts in each RD; (v) contracts for technical
services costing less than US$250,000 equivalent each, except for the first NCB contract in each RD. The
minimum size of application for direct payment withdrawals and the issuance of special commitments from
the IDA Credit account would be 20 percent of the Authorized Allocation to the Special Account.
Table C sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the Percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Replenishment applications should be submitted on a monthly basis and must be fully documented and
supported by statements and reconciliation statements. Disbursements should be made based on SOE for:
(i) less than US$100,000 for consulting firms; (ii) less than US$50,000 for individual consultants; (iii)
contracts for goods costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each, except for the first IS contract in each
-49-



RD; (iv) contracts for works costing less than US$500,000 equivalent each, except for the first two NCB
contracts in each RD; (v) contracts for technical services costing less than US$250,000 equivalent each,
except for the first NCB contract in each RD. This documentation will be made available for the required
audit as well as to Bank Supervision Missions, and will be retained by the FBHRD and RSRD respectively
for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the last fiscal year in which
disbursement was made.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina will
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, two separate Special
Accounts, one for the Federation (A) and one for Republic of Srpska (B), denominated in Euros. Currently,
local banks are not yet considered fully reliable and financially sound. The IDA special accounts will
therefore be held in banks outside BiH, until the local banking system has improved significantly. FBHRD
authorized allocation is EUR 1,500,000, limited to EUR 750,000 until withdrawals have reached SDR 1.5
million. RSRD authorized allocation is EUR 1,000,000, limited to EUR 500,000 until withdrawal has
reached SDR 1 million.
16.    Action Plan
It is concluded that the FBHRD and the RSRD currently satisfy the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements. There are however a number of actions that the Road Directorates have agreed
to take to improve their financial management processes.
Action                                                         Deadline
1.    The Road Directorates in RS and Federation to appoint       Done
accountants, acceptable to the Bank
2.   The Road Directorates in RS and Federation to implemen
acceptable accounting software capable of producing FMRs
Selection of accounting software                       Done
Installation of accounting software                    December 31, 2001
Completion of initial training                         December 31, 2001
Finalization of the accounting software to produce FMRs  December 31, 2001
3.  Submit a written notification to the Bank by the Ministry o December 31, 2001
Treasury (MOT) that the Road Management and Safety Project has
been included in the global contract to be audited by the Audito
acceptable to the Bank.
4.  The Road Directorates in RS and Federation to complete financia
manuals, acceptable to the Bank
Draft version                                          Done
Final version                                          December 31, 2001
5.  Design reporting requirements (draft PMR template) for review by December 31, 2001
the Financial Management Specialist.
6. Review   of the financial management arrangements by the       Done
Financial Management Specialist in accordance with the Bank's
Financial Management policies.
- 50 -



17.    Supervision Plan
The reports of the progress of the contracting process will be monitored in detail during supervision
missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a regular basis by the field-based FMS and the results or issues
followed up during the supervision missions. Financial audit reports will be reviewed and issues identified
and followed up. The action plan for strengthening financial management will be regularly monitored.
- 51 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Road Management and Safety Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      18
First Bank mission (identification)             09/28/2000                   09/28/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     09/17/2001                   09/17/2001
Negotiations                                    11/26/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/28/2002
Prepared by:
Cesar Queiroz, Program Team Leader
Preparation assistance:
Canadian Consultant Trust Fund, Central and Eastern Europe;
Netherlands Consultant Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Cesar Queiroz                     Program Team Leader
Aymeric-Albin Meyers              Team Leader at Identification
Bernard Baratz                    Lead Environmental Specialist
Ahmet Gokce                       Senior Procurement Specialist
Enn Vasur                         Transport Economist
Mirjana Karahasanovic             Operations Analyst
Siew Chai Ting                    Senior Financial Management Specialist
Robert Nooter                     Consultant/Economist
Scott Hanna                       Consultant/Environmentalist
Patrizia Poggi                    Social Development Operations Specialist
Dominic Haazen                    Senior Health Specialist
David Webber                      Lead Financing Management Specialist
William Denning                   Consultant/Economist
Jacques Cellier, Peer Reviewer    Lead Transport Economist
- 52 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Road Management and Safety Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Republic of Srpska, Project Implementation Plan, Road Management and Safety Project, October 31,
2001.
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Project Implementation Plan, Road Management and Safety
Project, October 2001.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Identification Mission Aide Memoire, September 2000.
Pre-Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, April 2001.
Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, October 2001.
C. Other
Law on Roads (Republic of Srpska), Number: 02-604/95, June 14, 1995 (Official Gazette 11/95).
Agreement on Establishment of Bosnia and Herzegovina Public Corporations - Office of the High
Representative - Initialled in Dayton on November 21, 1995 and signed in Paris on December 14, 1995.
The Phare Multi-Country Road Safety Project, Final Report Volume 2 (main body), November 1999.
Agreement between the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Srpska on the
Establishment of a Joint Road Infrastructure Public corporation as Part of the Transportation Corporation,
dated December 14, 1995. Amendment Number 01 to Agreement dated January 16, 2000.
Press Release, Public Corporation for Road Infrastructure Established, Office of the High Representative,
March 6, 2000.
Road User Charges in Bosnia Herzegovina: Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project, Final. On
behalf of: European Bank for Reconstruction and Development - NEI Transport, Rotterdam, May 2000.
In association with: Danish Road Directorate; IPSA Institute, Sarajevo; Institute for Urbanism, Banja
Luka.
Draft Federation of BiH Law on Roads, Mostar, July 2000, and July 2001..
Report - Launching the Bosnia and Herzegovina Road Infrastructure Public Corporation (BRIC), Dieter
Wrede, Nuemberg, September 2000.
Information on Traffic Accidents (TA) on Magistral Roads (MR), January 2001.
Financial Asset into Magistral Roads in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for period 1998-2001.
- 53 -



List of Working Organizations that are engaged on Maintenance Works in the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Report on Status of Roads, Federation Ministry of Traffic and Communications, Federation Directorate for
Roads, Sarajevo, January 2, 2001.
The Study on The Transport Master Plan in Bosnia and Herzegovian (BiHTMAP), (Final). Prepared by:
Pacific Consultants International for Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), March 2001.
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, Draft Law on International and
Inter-Entity Road Transport, Sarajevo, March 19, 2001.
Roads and Environment Seminar, Scott Hanna, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, September 27, 2001.
Proposal for Road Rehabilitation (Republic of Srpska), April 2001.
The Railway Sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Joint Strategy, Period 2001-2003, Sarajevo, April 2001.
Organization of Railways in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Office of the High Representative, April 25, 2001.
Agenda for International Conference on Railways in Banja Luka, Bosnia and Herzegovina, May 4, 2001.
A Long-term Plan of Railways in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Presented by: Dr. Katsuhide Nagayama, Team
Leader, the JICA Study Team.
Country Report Bosnia and Herzegovina, Road Transport Charges, (Final). On behalf of: Phare
Multi-Country Transport Programme - NEI Transport, Rotterdam, August 2001.
Traffic Counting in Republic of Srpska, Road Directorate, Banja Luka, September 2001 (prepared by Mr.
Igor Jokanovic).
Study of Economic Viability for Rehabilitation of Highways at the Region of Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Volume I, Investments for the First Phase, TJ.2001 - Institute for Traffic Faculty for Civil
Engineering, Sarajevo, September 2001.
THE LAW on Amendments and Modifications of The Law on Ministries and other bodies of Federal
Administration (translated October 2001), published in Official gazette number 48/99 on December
3,1999. [Establishment of the Federation Road Directorate]
*Including electronic files
- 54 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Road Management and Safety Project
06-Feb-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                       IBRD        IDA                          Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P058521       2001 ELEC PWR 3 RECN                                     0.00     35.00                            0.00     33.25       0.00      0.00
P066169       2001 LOC INIT 2                                         0.00      20.00                            0.00     19.81      12.72      0.00
P070079       2001 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                      0.00      11.00                            0.00     10.91       2.11      0.00
P070650       2001 SOTAC                                              0.00       3.55                            0.00      3.29       1.38      0.00
P070917       2001 PRIVTA                                              0.00     19.80                            0.00     19.56       0.17      0.00
P070995       2001 COMM DEVT                                           0.00     15.00                            0.00     14.79       2.22      0.00
P057951       2000 MOSTAR WS & SAN                                     0.00     12.00                            0.00      9.29       2.89      0.00
P058512       2000 EDUC 3                                             0.00      10.60                            0.00      7.91       0.02      0.00
P070146       2000 EMG LABOR REDEPLOYMENT PILOT                        0.00     15.00                            0.00     13.48       7.00      0.00
P046461        1999 ENTER & BANKING PRIV                              0.00      50.00                            0.00     23.79      24.63      0.00
P044523        1999 BASIC HEALTH                                      0.00      10.00                            0.00      6.84       7.33      0.00
P055432        1999 PFSAC 2                                            0.00     72.00                            0.00     18.68      45.64      0.00
P062936        1999 ENT EXP FACIL (BEEF)                               0.00     12.00                            0.00      7.68       8.26      0.00
P059763        1999 CULTL HERITAGE PILOT                              0.00       4.00                            0.00      2.33       2.50       0.00
P056192        1999 LOCAL DEVT                                         0.00     15.00                            0.00     12.46       8.19       0.00
P045134        1998 FORESTRY                                           0.00      7.00                            0.00      1.35       2.10       0.00
P044522        1997 ESSNTL HOSP SERV                                   0.00     15.00                            0.00      0.03       0.95       0.00
Total:       0.00      326.95                           0.00      205.44    128.12       0.00
- 55 -



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997/99/01         Bosnia Micro                  0.00     0.38    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.38    0.00    0.00
1985               Energoinvest                   7.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.35    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Enterprise Fund               0.00     1.71    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.06    0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Akova                      1.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.46    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999/01            SEF Bosnalijek                2.18     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Kopex                      1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Lignosper                  1.91    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.65    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Lijanovici                 1.96    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.96    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Sarajevska                     1.78    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.78    0.00    0.00    0.00
1977               TKA Cazin                     3.06     0.00    0.00    0.00    3.06    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Wood Agency-AL                4.10     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Wood Inga                      1.45   0.00     0.00    0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00
0                  Wood Konjuh                    2.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.84    0.00     0.00    0.00
0                  Wood Kozara                    1.45    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.22    0.00     0.00    0.00
0                  Wood Podgradci                 0.99    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.81    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               Wood Vrbas                     1.45    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        32.61    2.09    0.00     0.00   25.29    1.44     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001               PBS Pre-Priv.                    9.26      4.41     0.01      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        9.26      4.41      0.01     0.00
- 56 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Road Management and Safety Project
Bosnia  Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    and    Central   middle.
Herzegovina      Asia    Income      Development dlamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       3.9       475      2.046                Life expectancy
GNI Per capita (Atlas method. US$)                      ..     2,010     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                        ..      956      2.327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                         1.3       0.1       1.0
Labor force (X)                                        1.6       0.6       1.3     GNI                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                              capita          .           enrollment
Poverty (X of Population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)               43        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (vears)                       73        69        69
Infant mortality (Per 1,000 live births)               13        21        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             ..         ..       11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)    ..       90        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   ..         3        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   ..      100       114              Bosnia and Heregovina
Male                                                  ..      101       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                ..       99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economlc ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                             ..       ..       4.5       4.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  ..       ..      20.6      20.4                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ..       ..      26.5      27.1
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                     ..       ..     -13.0     -10.3
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..       ..      -0.8      -0.2
Current account balance/GDP                    ..       ..     -21.4     -20.7     Domestic                    Investment
Interest pavmentslGDP                          ..      ..        1.1       1.3
Total debt/GDP                                 ..       ..      48.1      46.7     savings
Total debt service/exports                     ..       ..      10.9      19.7
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..
Present value of debt/exports                  ..
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   ..     27.3    10.0        5.8       6.0              Bosnia and Herzegovina
GDP per capita                        ..    24.8      6.8        4.7       5.5        -     Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..    41.8     -3.9        4.2       5.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        400
Agriculture                                    ..       ..      13.8      12.2    300
Industry                                      ..       ..       25.2     26.0
Manufacturing                                ..       ..      15.4      15.8    200
Services                                       ..      ..       61.0      61.8    lo 
Private consumption                            ..      ..         ..        ..            as   9s a7      9s    s9   00
General government consumption                 .    ..            ..                              GD0           GDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..      ..       60.1     57.9
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual .qrowth)
Agriculture                                    ..     8.1       -3.0      -8.3    ISO.
Industrv                                      ..     26.2       11.2      5.7    ioo..
Manufacturino                                ..     17.1       0.1       7.2
Services                                      ..     37.9       17.5       7.9     o 
Private consumPtion                                    9...      ..                .      s97             S     99   00
General government consumption                 ..-
Gross domestic investment                      ..    35.6        9.9      4.4                   Expons      C  Impons
Imports of poods and services                  ..    21.6       -3.1      -5.9
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-qroup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomolete.
- 57 -



Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999      2000      Inflation (%)
DomestUc prices
(% change)                                                                         20 
Consumer prices                                                  o09       5.3      o---J-- 
Implicit GDP deflator                                             3.1      4.7    -20                   97    98   99    0
Government finance                                                                 4
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                                  317      310      -r0o
Current budget balance                                           4 .9      -1.2                  GDP deflator  O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                         -17.4    -15.9
TRADE
(VSS millions)                               1980     1990      1999      2000      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                              649       732     3000
n.a.
n.a.                                                                              .0
Manufactures                                  2.
Total imports (cif)                                             2,502    2,348
Food                                                                               00
Fuel and energV                               -.
Capital goods                                                                       o
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..4                                            9    96   97   98   93
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      ..         ..       ..                 * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                               1980     190       199       2000      Current account balance to GDP (#)
Exports of goods and servioes                                   1,201    1,192      o
Imports of goods and services                                   2,728    2,543          **
Resource balance                                               -1,527    -1,351     so  * l
Net income                                                       272       225      3            11111
Net current transfers                           .                284       217     -20
Current account balance                         .        ,       -971     -909     -30
Financing items (net)                                    ,      1,233      935
Changes in net reserves                                          -262      -26     _40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)          ..      ..       455       508
Conversion rate (DEC, localUS$)                 ..       ..       1.8      2.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999      2000
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             .       .      2,183    2,052
lBRD                                                           578       562                      G:49
IDA                                                    .       373       398                F: 131
Total debt service                              .        .        170      297                           -      A: 562
IBRD                                                  ,.        34        33
IDA                                                              2         3         E:526
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               .
Official creditors                                             116       -46
Private creditors                                                0         4                                  13:398
Foreign direct investment                                                  .             D 2t                 B
Portfolio equity                                       .         ,                                  C 105
World Bank program
Commitments                                                    163        41      A - IBRO                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                          .        68        44      8 - IDA  D - Other mulbilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                   ,         0         0      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                                       68        44
Interest payments                                               36        36
Net transfers                                                   32         8
Development Economics                                                                                               10-11-01
- 58 -



Additional
Annex 11
Road Management and Maintenance Policy Letter
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Road Management and Safety Project
Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Ministry of Transport and Communications
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Ministry of Transport and Communications
The Republic of Srpska
September 28, 2001
Mr. Christiaan Poortman Country Director The World.Bank Washington D.C.
Dear Mr. Poortman,
1.     Despite the successful completion of the Emergency Transport Reconstruction
Project (ETRP launched in 1996 for a total amount of US$149 million of which IDA
financed US$35 million) and the Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
(SETRP launched in 1997, totaling US$184 million of which IDA financed US$39
million), a significant part of the main road network in Bosnia and HeTzegovina, both in
the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBH) and in the Republic of Srpska (RS), is
still in poor condition. The traffic safety situation in the country is extremely
unsatisfactory in the light of intemational comparison. That is the consequence of (i) the
maintenance backlog accumulated in the last 10 years; (ii) insufficient allocations to road
maintenance and rehabilitation, especially in the FBH; (iii) lack of respect and efficient
control of axle-load limits and traffic safety regulations; (iv) steadily growing (on average
7% p.a.) traffic acompanying economic recovery; and (v) human behavioral factors, and
failure to adust driving habits to the prevailing traffic safety conditions. The actual
institutional framework, organization of road works, traffic control measures, and the
level of the government financing available for general road expenditure (10,500,000 KM
for main roads in FBH, and 67,447,351 KM in RS in 2000) is apparently inadequate to,
manage and maintain properly the road network.
2.     Bosnia and Herzegovina intends to borrow US$30 million from the International
Development Association (IDA) to help finance a Road Management and Safety Project
(RMSP) with the overall objective to increase efficiency and safety of road transport in
the country. The Borrower's contribution to RMSP is expected to be US$11.25 million.
- 59 -



the country. The Borrower's contribution to RMSP is expected to be US$11.25 million.
3.     The objective of this Road Management and Maintenance Policy Letter is to
demonstrate the Council of Ministers' commitment to an appropriate road management and
maintenance policy, allowing seamless implementation of RMSP and to enhance
sustainability of its expected impacts.
Objective
4.     There is a clear and urgent need to take action to improve the ability of Bosnia
and Herzegovina to manage efficiently and maintain properly its road network. Large
amounts have been spent to rehabilitate portions of the road network, but these, along
with roads and bridges that were not included in the rehabilitation plans mentioned
above, will soon deteriorate unless an effective and efficient policy of road management
and maintenance can be elaborated, approved and implemented.
5.     There are several studies related to road management, operation, maintenance and
financing, completed within the framework of ETRP and SETRP, prepared by
consultants of internationally acclaimed experience. Results and recommendations of
these studies, together with data collected and observed by the personnel and experts of
the Ministries, while not constituting a policy, provide sufficient information to form the
basis for creating one. Our policy to achieve an effective road management and
maintenance capability is given below.
Road Management and Maintenance Policy
6.     The policy that we envision is based on the principle of providing and maintaining
an appropriate service level for each portion of the public road network. At present that
means more timely and adequate maintenance for virtually all roads in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, but over the longer run it also means to prevent overspending for
maintaining roads beyond what is justified for their traffic level and usage. This principle
results in the lowest possible cost for maintaining roads, as timely maintenance reduces
the need for costly reconstruction, and avoiding excessive maintenance has obvious
benefits in lowering the total costs for the road directorates. To carry out this principle
correctly requires techniques that provide guidance on how to achieve just the right
amount of maintenance for each road section at the right time.
7.     The policy includes measures to address five important areas at once:
(i)    creating an effective organizational structure for road management,
(ii)   establishing a system that assures an adequate level of road financing,
(iii)  enhancing privatization of road construction and maintenance companies
and contracting out works to the private sector through competitive bidding,
(iv)   putting in place sound safety improvement measures, and
(v)    adopting good personnel policies including the provision of relevant training.
8. Organizational Structure - There are three guiding principles to assist Bosnia and Herzegovina
in its effort to achieve better organizational structures in road management.
- 60 -



First, it has become obvious and it is intemationally acknowledged that private sector
operations, especially under competitive conditions, are invariably more efficient than
public sector operations. Therefore, as many functions as possible of the Federation Road
Directorate (FBHRD) and the Republic of Srpska Road Directorate (RSRD) should be carried
out on contracts, arranged on a competitive bidding basis with due regard for
transparency, and suitably supervised by their respective Road Directorates.
9.     The second principle, which has already been applied in both Entities, is that the
"client" should be separated organizationally from the "producer", since this results in
clear cut, single point responsibilities and obligations. If the road administration is
carrying out road maintenance work with its own forces, there is no client to detemline
that the work has been properly executed. Contracting out can achieve the desired
separation of client and producer, in which the producer must produce satisfactory work
if he wants to be paid.
10.    Third, it is well known that decisions should be taken at a level and by staff
having the best information about the problem. There is an obvious need to avoid
redundancies and to have a stronger coordination and standardization of the road
management and works carried out in the FBH and RS. The recently established Bosnia
and Herzegovina Road Infrastructure Public Corporation (BRIC) shall play an important
role in this respect. Organization and responsibility for managing and maintaining of
roads should be structured in line with the Constitution and relevant legal framework.
11.    Financing: The road users have both an obligation to pay for the use of the roads
(through fuel and/or other taxes related to the use of the roads), and an opportunity to
gain benefit which they receive in the form of reduced vehicle operating costs and travel
time when the roads are well maintained. Other important principles are that (i) an
adequate level of financing that permits timely maintenance will result in lower overall
costs for the operation of the road network, and (ii) the amounts of financing for road
maintenance should be relatively level each year so that the contractors will be able to
develop their staffs and purchase equipment with the knowledge that they will be able to
compete for work every year.
12.    The obvious conclusion is that sufficient road expenditure budget within the
Ministry of Transport and Communications in FBH and RS respectively (for maintenance
and operation of their road networks) is to be allocated on an annual basis. The country's
present road user tax structure is reasonable, and could be improved with fairly minor
adjustments, as indicated in a Road User Charges study of May 2000, commissioned by the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) under the framework of
the ETRP. What is seriously needed is vastly improved tax-collections, and a mechanism
that assures that an appropriate portion of the collected funds are then turned over to the
authorities bearing exclusive responsibility for road management and maintenance.
13.   In case the steady and rapid traffic growth continues as expected, and traffic
volumes on certain elements of the main road network in peak periods will approach
capacity level, opportunities to increase capacity attracting private capital into the road
business under a concession type public-private partnership scheme will be duly
considered and assessed.
- 61 -



14.   Procurement Practices: The privatization of road construction and maintenance
services and companies will be encouraged and supported by appropriate contracting
measures. The road management and maintenance policy will include good procurement
practices to assure competitive bidding, adequate quality control, and the application of
new technologies through contact with what is going on in road maintenance practices in
other countries. There is no practical way to become up to date on the best operational
practices without the help of knowledgeable technical advisers that have these skills. This
will be accomplished in several ways, including specific short term seminars for the staff
of the Entities' Road Directorates. In a later stage, concession type, performance based
maintenance contracts could also be envisaged.
15.    Operations: The road management and maintenance policy will be implemented
through the application of proper operational procedures and practices, including the use
of economic evaluation to determine how best to use limited resources and how to avoid
under- and over-spending for maintenance. Appropriate environmental and social
assessments will be carried out simultaneously. As part of the operational activities a
monitoring and data collection system feeding an appropriate data bank will be
established, dealing with road, traffic and accident data as well.
16.   Personnel Practices: Implementation of the policy also depends on having
competent staff producing at high levels. The personnel issues are reduced to the extent
that contracting is used, since most personnel are employed by the contractors. However,
there will still be a critical core of persons on public payrolls managing the road system.
Selection should be on the basis of qualifications, dismissal should be an option for non-
performers, and salaries should be at levels that can attract and hold qualified staff.
Training is another important element in bringing the staff up to standard in areas that
they have not been exposed to before, including transparency in contract management,
budgeting, and planning based on economic analysis and concem for the environment
and social impact. Training already received should be used as a basis for the future
technical assistance and training programn.
Actions to Implement the Road Management and Maintenance Policy
17.   Critical steps in the implementation of this policy include:
(a)    Roads should be classified hierarchically and placed under the
responsibility of the appropriate Council of Ministers' Bodies by approving appropriate
legislation or regulation. .
(b)    In the future, all road and bridge maintenance work would be carried out
by contract, both for routine and periodic maintenance. The relevant Bodies will
be responsible for planning and budgeting, contracting for design, civil works and
maintenance, and ensuring quality control of the contracted works related to the
road network managed by them. The works will be carried out by private
contractors under contracts secured from the road administrations on a
competitive bid basis. Procurement of equipment would be the responsibility of
the contractors.
(c)    Train relevant Road Agencies' personnel in economic analysis, modem
budgeting and accounting practices, new road technologies, procurement and
contract management (including public-private partnership), quality control, and
road safety; salaries should be set at rates able to compete for qualified staff with
- 62 -



the private sector; donor support should be sought for training, office equipment,
and contacts with road maintenance practices in other countries.
(d)    Provide financial support and training (on a voluntary basis) for the private
road construction and maintenance industry in competitive bidding practices, cost
accounting, modem road construction techniques, and good management
practices.
(e)    Establish a comprehensive data bank, collecting, storing and processing
road and bridge condition, traffic and accident data serving as a base for long term
planning, project evaluation, management systems, and road safety improvement
programs. The data bank will include socio-economic information on road users
and all accident victims.
18. We are convinced that support for the above set of measures will allow us to
tackle the country's road deterioration problem. The elaboration and implementation of
the proposed Road Management and Maintenance Policy will contribute to the expected
sustainable economic growth of our country. We appreciate your support.
Sincerely yours,
Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Minister: Mr Svetozar Mihajlovic
Ministry of Transport and Communications
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Minister: Mr. Besim Mehmedic
Ministry of Transport and Communications
The Republic of Srpska
Minister: Mr. Branko Dokic
- 63 -



Additional
Annex 12
Road Safety and Actions Related to Emergency Medical Services
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Road Management and Safety Project
Background
As a result of reconstruction efforts following the conflict, including previous World Bank projects, the
personnel who work in the emergency medical services (EMS) system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the
equipment they use are generally of a high standard. However, in the case of road traffic accidents, a
number of deficiencies have been observed that inhibit the ability of the formal EMS system to provide the
maximum benefit to those injured in such accidents. These deficiencies include:
Current legislation that requires civilian personnel to transport the sick and injured to the nearest
medical facility - even in larger centers, where highly trained EMS personnel that can provide definitive
medical treatment are only 5-7 minutes away, crews often come on the scene to learn that critically injured
patients have been crammed into a taxi or private vehicle and taken to the nearest medical facility (although
not necessarily one with personnel trained to deal with serious trauma);
*      Although first aid training is required by law for those obtaining a drivers' license, no standardized
course exists, and those providing the training are themselves not required to have formal training or
certification. Anecdotal evidence suggests that many would-be drivers are simply paying to obtain the
training certificate, without necessarily having completed the course;
*      Police and fire fighters, who are frequently first on the scene of a road traffic accident, do not have
formal first aid training, despite numerous attempts in the past to develop and implement such training
courses;
*      The level of care provided by the general public and other emergency personnel, including
inadequate attention to potential spinal injuries, bleeding and other serious conditions, suggests that people
either do not have the appropriate level of training or have forgotten the basics in treating seriously injured
patients.
Since the medical outcome of those involved in road traffic accidents in often determined in the initial
interventions that are made, it is critical that to the extent possible, those who happen upon an accident
have a basic understanding of what to do, and almost more importantly, what not to do. In addition, there
is a benefit in ensuring that other emergency personnel have a general proficiency in basic accident first aid,
so that they can either ensure that no harm is done to the patient, as a minimum, or provide initial first aid
interventions until the EMS crew arrives.
In developing countries, road crashes represent the second biggest cause of ill-health and premature death
for males 15-44 years old. Because automobile accidents involve mostly economically active males, young
people, pedestrians and professional drivers, the economic and health impact is considerable.
It is estimated that the economic impact of road crashes in the Europe and Central Asia Region is
approximately 1.5-2.0 percent of GNP. For Bosnia and Herzegovina this amounts to around DEM 116
million, or DEM 31 per capita (compared to DEM 114 per capita spent in total on health services in the
country). In terrns of health impact, the number of deaths is relatively small in comparison to the total
number of deaths in Bosnia and Herzegovina (estimated 315 out of 19,000 deaths annually or 1.7 percent).
However, the younger age at death and significant disability resulting from automobile accidents means
that the resulting disability adjusted life years lost is much higher (accidents in total account for 9 percent
- 64 -



of DALYs lost).
The availability of data is a major problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so intemational comparisons are
difficult to make. It has been possible to obtain fairly accurate data from one of the cantons (Sarajevo),
and this data has been extrapolated to the remainder of the country in the table below:
Table 1: Estimated Road Traffic Accidents, Injuries and Fatalities
1       trapolated from Saraievo Statistics
Sarajevo                | Republica
Canton       Federation I  Srpska   I Total BiH
Population                  356,5021 l   2,346,4971   1,400,0001  3,746,497
Automobile Accidents          6,066        39,926       23,821       63,748
Light Injuries                  715         4,706        2,808        7,514
Heavy Injuries                  352         2,317        1,382        3,699
Deaths                           30           197          118         315
Death % Total Injuries        2.8%
Death % Heavy Injuries        8.5%
Per 10,000 Population
Automobile Accidents        170.15
Light Injuries               20.06
Heavy Injuries                9.87
Deaths                        0.84
Intemational comparison data should be regarded with some caution, and the conclusion to be drawn
depends upon the variables used. For example, in Figure 1, the number of traffic accident fatalities is
expressed as a fraction of the total population, while in Figure 2, the fatalities are expressed in relation to
the total number of motor vehicles. While Bosnia and Herzegovina have a fairly low value in relation to
population, this appears to be due to a relatively low number of motor vehicles per capita.
- 65-



a                     M 
p4itd
4)         - *a - a 



Figure 2: Trafric Deaths per 10,000 Vehicles
CzechRepublic
Butgeuia
Estonia
Slovak Republic
Slovenia
Macedotie. FYR
Yugoslavia, R (Serbia/Montenegro)
Lhueuas     _
Romania                   =
Rus sienFedesation
Bosnia aend Henegovima
-           5.0t        10.00        15.00       20.00       25.00       30M0         3500        40.00
-67 -



These international statistics do not provide information on permanent disability or other serious injury
resulting from inappropriate treatment prior to hospitalization. A recent study by the Institute for
Emergency Medical Services in Sarajevo (IEMS) indicated that of 217 patients treated by the emergency
teams at IEMS, 97 (45 percent) were brought in by taxi or private vehicle. This is despite the fact that the
average response time for ambulances to the scene in the Sarajevo Canton is 7.7 minutes, and less than 5
minutes to the central city of Sarajevo. Among those treated by ambulance crews, 54 patients (45 percent)
had multiple trauma, and of these 47 required spinal immobilization, 30 required intravenous solutions and
28 required oxygen. Three quarters of the patients transported by taxi or private vehicle (63) had multiple
trauma that should have received immediate treatment at the scene and en route to the emergency center.
The data appear to indicate that the more heavily injured are more often transported by private vehicles.
Even if it is assumed that those traveling by private vehicles were not sicker than those transported by
ambulance, it could reasonably be expected that 64 of these patients required spinal immobilization but did
not get it, 41 required intravenous solutions and 38 required oxygen. The potential impact of the damage
done by the lack of these critical interventions is significant.
It is also important to note that the age and condition of the vehicles in Bosnia and Herzegovina may
contribute to the severity of motor vehicle accidents. For example, a check done in October, 1999 by
BiHamk, the Bosnian automobile club, found that of 819 vehicles tested, 58 percent had at least one defect.
The average age of the vehicles tested was 13 years, and the vehicles had, on average, almost 150,000
kilometers on the odometer. The most common defects included lights (77 percent), steering (21 percent),
brakes (11 percent), and tires (11 percent).
Activities for an Integrated Road Safety/EMS Program
1.     Assist in the drafting of legislation to:
Remove the requirement for transport of accident victims, except under the direction of a trained
emergency professional;
Establish minimum standards for driver first aid, and the licensing of first aid trainers;
Establish a licensing board for emergency medical services personnel, including paramedics, first
responders, and the trainers of first responders and new drivers.
A number of different laws could be affected by these measures, both at the entity (Federation and
Republica Srpska) and cantonal levels. Both international and local legal experts would be needed
to review and advise on these issues.
This activity would also explore the feasibility of moving the financial responsibility for the
medical expenses associated with motor vehicle accidents from the health insurance funds to motor
vehicle insurers.
If this change could be accomplished, automobile insurers would have a vested interest in
improving the overall level of first aid knowledge of drivers, thereby ensuring the ongoing
sustainability of the driver education system, including re-certification at regular intervals.
2.     Assist in the actual establishment of the licensing board, including the development (or
installation) of a licensing database, and related equipment.
This would require specific decisions on the location of the licensing board. Options would include
the independent medical licensing organization in each entity (College of Physicians or College of
Nurses), the Ministry of Health, or a separate organization.  Once this decision is made,
- 68 -



appropriate legislative amendments would be required and staff hired.  Given the relative
population sizes, it is estimated that two licensing officials would be needed for the Federation, and
one for RS.
3.     Development of a standard curriculum for pre-licensing driver first aid training.
Using both international expertise and existing resources, a standard first aid curriculum would be
developed for new drivers. This basic first aid course would likely be 1-2 days in length, and
would include basic skills in areas such as head and neck stabilization, airway management,
breathing and circulation management and checking for major injuries. To ensure the wide
acceptance of this curriculum, it is proposed that consensus conferences be held to draw as many
stake-holders as possible together and obtain agreement on the appropriateness of the proposed
approach. It is also important that feedback from the training process be considered and changes
made as appropriate.
4.     Supporting the training of trainers who will deliver the revised curriculum.
Because of the volume of new drivers who will require first aid taining (and possibly the retraining
of drivers in the future), it is not feasible for existing EMS services to provide this training directly.
There are also currently private individuals and organizations that provide this type of training, but
they are not licensed at present. Under this activity, the courses would be provided to those who
would like to be certified trainers under the new legislation. Part of the costs of these courses
would be covered from course fees. This activity would need to be coordinated with the passage of
the relevant legislation and establishment of the licensing boards, so that after a given date only
licensed trainers would be able to provide first aid training to prospective drivers. While this
activity will only address the small proportion of the drivers who are just obtaining their license, it
is hoped that the public information campaign will reach all drivers, including those who have had
their license for some time.
5.     Development of a curriculum for police andfire service first responders.
Using both international expertise and existing resources, this standard first responder curriculum
would be developed for police and fire departments and other interested groups (such as
professional drivers or the staff of the automobile association. This would be a more in-depth first
aid course which would likely be 4-5 days in length, and would include both the basic skills in
areas such as head and neck stabilization, airway management, breathing and circulation
management and checking for major injuries, as well as the appropriate movement of patients with
suspected spinal injuries, bleeding control, secondary assessment and more advanced airway
management. To ensure the wide acceptance of this curriculum, it is proposed that consensus
conferences be held to draw all of the stake-holders together and obtain agreement on the
appropriateness of the proposed approach. In addition, representatives of the police and fire
services should be included in the team developing the curriculum. It is also important that
feedback from the training process be considered and changes made as appropriate.
6.     Supporting the training of trainers who will deliver the first responder curriculum, and initial
training offirst responders.
This activity will include the training of existing police and fire personnel using the standard
curriculum, as well as the training of trainers for both of these services, as well as other groups, to
- 69 -



ensure that this training is continued beyond the life of the project. Both trainers and first
responder personnel will be licensed by the licensing board upon the completion of their training.
7.     Developing and funding a public information campaign to outline the legislative changes that
have been made and the rationale for these changes, and to advise the public on the appropriate
procedures for individuals coming upon a traffic accident.
This activity would be coordinated with other public information components of the project related
to road and traffic safety (e.g., wearing of seat-belts, defensive driving, drinking and driving). It
would focus on the mass media, in order to get the maximum possible exposure for these important
messages.  A joint conference on traffic safety issues, including possibly the Ministers of
Transport, Education and Health, and other senior politicians, as well as govemment officials, may
be organized to kick off the information campaign.
Proposed Activities Based on Appraisal Mission
Agreement was reached that this project will assist in developing and funding a public information
campaign to advise the public on the appropriate procedures for individuals coming upon a traffic accident.
This activity would also include sensitizing the public to the impact of motor vehicle accidents, in personal,
financial and health terms, as well as other public information components related to road and traffic safety
(e.g., wearing of seat-belts, defensive driving, drinking and driving). This activity should have input from
professional emergency service providers to ensure that the message is consistent with the longer-term
strategy, and reinforces the notion that this alone will not address the issues noted above.
This component would focus on the mass media, in order to get the maximum possible exposure for these
important messages. A joint conference on traffic safety issues, including possibly the Ministers of
Transport, Education and Health, and other senior politicians, as well as government officials, may be
organized to kick off the information campaign. This conference will highlight that this is only the first
phase of a major effort to reduce accidents and improve the outcomes in accidents that do occur.
- 70 -



Additional Annex 13: Road Needs and Financing
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Road Management and Safety Project
A. Road User Charges
Road user charges are continuously evolving and the latest comprehensive overview is found in the study
Road User Charges in Bosnia and Herzegovina, NEI Transport, Rotterdam, May 2000. It is based on
mainly 1998 data, but these have since changed only marginally.
Federation - Road User charges are levied in the form of various taxes and fees, as follows
Charges                       Amount                       Allocation
Fues Taxes:
Sales Tax on Fuel             20% of price before taxes     Cantons
Road Fee                      0.22 KM/I for gas             45% to Mininstry of Transport
55% to Cantons
0.12 KM/I for diesel          ditto
Excise Duties                 0.30 KM/1 for gas             Federation
0.30 KM/I for diesel          ditto
Vehicle Taxes:
Sales Tax                     20% of vehicle value          Cantons
for passenger cars
Customs, Excise Duty and Road  Varying according to type of  Federation, Ministry of Transport
Fee                           vehicle                       and Cantons
The pump price for gasoline and diesel varies but is presently around 1.40 and 1.30 KM/I respectively. The
fuel taxes constitute about 58% and 52% of the retail price for gasoline and diesel respectively. This is
about the average level found in Central and Eastern Europe while considerably lower than the levels in EU
which are around 70 to 80%. In absolute terms the price of both gasoline and diesel is relatively low (about
two thirds) in the Federation as compared to EU. However in relation to average income the price is about
twice as high as in EU countries and hence the scope of increasing the fuel taxation levels appears limited.
The various road user charges are allocated to the Federation and the cantons. 45% of the road fee is
allocated to the Federation Ministry of Transport, but there is no fixed percentage allocated directly to the
FBHRD. Consequently there is no direct relationship between the road user charges and road expenditures.
Making an assessment of the amount of road user charges collected annually involves a number of rather
uncertain assumptions but yields an order of magnitude of the amounts involved. Total road fuel taxes can
be estimated to almost 300 MKM (1998). Of this about 130 MKM should have been allocated to the
cantons with the balance, 170 MKM, going to the Federation budget. From this budget about 40 MKM
should have been allocated to the Ministry of Transport , not necessarily for roads. These assessments,
done from the consumption side, seem to adhere quite well with actual revenue figures.
- 71 -



Republic of Srpska
Charges                       Amount                      Allocation
Fues Taxes:
Retail tax                    18% of price before taxes    RS
Excise duties                 0.30 KM/i of gas             50% RS, 46.25%
0.20 KM/I of diesel          RSRD, 3.25% local
Special Republic Tax          0.10 KM/I                    RS
Vehicle Taxes:
Import tax                    Various according to type    RS
Registration Tax              50 KM                        RS
Annual Vehicle Tax            Various according to type    85% RSRD
Automobile Association        1.45 KM/year for passenger cars  AA
2.21 KM/year for others
Waterworks Tax                1.10 KM/year for passenger cars  Waterworks
X ___________________________ 2.78  KM /year for others
Administration Tax            1.43 KM/year                 RS
Transit Tax                   200 KM for passenger cars    RS
350 KM for buses
500 KM for trucks
The pump prices in RS are still somewhat lower than the corresponding prices in the Federation. The share
that taxes constitute is also lower but still on level with Central and Eastern Europe. The gap between the
prices in RS and the Federation is narrowing however. The same comments as were given above for the
Federation with respect to absolute and relative levels in comparison to EU applies also to RS.
The link between the above charges and the allocation to roads is clearer and more direct in RS than in the
Federation in that a part of the fuel taxes, 46.25 % of the fuel excise duties, and the vehicle taxes, 85% of
the annual vehicle tax, are allocated directly to the RS Road Directorate. Although this share is clearly
defined, its application in reality has apparently not always been that clear, since the actual applications
and amounts sometimes have been the result of political considerations and decisions.
An assessment similar to the one in the Federation gives the total road user charges at around 100 MKM.
Of this, it can be estimated that about 25 MKM are allocated directly to the Road Directorate with the rest
going mainly to the general budget.
B. Road Expenditures
Federation
The expenditures on roads in the Federation are inherently difficult to gauge. This stems from the fact that
expenditures during the reconstruction phase during the last few years have been funded and managed from
a variety of sources and surrounded with sometimes uncertainty as to what has actually been spent vs what
has been promised/pledged. Another reason is that the Federation Road Directorate has had very limited
possibilities to carry out its tasks, with a very limited staff until the end of year 2000, but which has been
strengthened in 2001. The cantons have responsibilities for the cantonal roads and have spent resources on
them but there exists no estimate of how much and where this has been done.
- 72 -



The FBHRD budget has developed as follows:
1998          17,246,000 KM
1999          11,100,000 KM
2000          10,500,000 KM
2001          13,700,000 KM
(budget)
These amounts have been used for routine and winter maintenance. In addition there have been winter
maintenance which has been financed by IFOR/SFOR to an unknown extent. The reconstruction of roads
and bridges since 1996 has taken place almost entirely outside of FBHRD with financing from various
multilateral and bilateral agencies. It is estimated that about 100 MUSD has been expended for
reconstruction in the roads sector in the Federation in 1996-2000. For the cantonal expenditures there are
no numbers available. This is also the case for some other investments which have been funded by other
govemment entities (or government related enterprises) and which have not been channeled through the
FBHRD.
The above FBHRD budget figures are clearly insufficient even to cover only minimum maintenance
requirements. With an FBHRD network of 2,024 km, the minimum maintenance expenditures requirements
were estimated at about 20 MKM.
In addition to what is included in the above FBHRD budget, two other main new road projects are expected
to be implemented during the next three to four years. EIB will finance two components in the Federation;
the Caplina bridge reconstruction, estimated at 6 MKM, and the Sarajevo by-pass between Josanica and
Blazuj, 13,9 km, estimated at 120 MKM. Government's contribution for the road component is 50%.
Government has also, through the FBHRD, advertised and received bids for the part of the Sarajevo-Zenica
motorway between Josanica and Podlugovi, 11.5 km, estimated at 59 MKM. Discussions about financing
for both of these projects are presently underway. Thus, adding these figures, say about 40 to 50 MKM per
year for the next four years shows that maintenance, ie the FBHRD budget, accounts for but a small part
of the total road sector expenditures in the Federation. In addition, the Bank's proposed project will add
about 8 MKM/year for the next four to five years.
Thus total annual Federation road expenditure during the coming few years can be estimated as follows
(MKM):
FBHRD budget               20 (assuming 20% annual increases)
New construction           45   (as described above)
WB credit                   8
TOTAL                      70   (cantonal expenditures not included)
- 73 -



Republic of Srpska
RSRD expenditures have developed as follows (in 1000KM):
Category            1997             1998              1999             2000
Routine maintenance          14,857            14,407           17,010            21,044
Winter maintenance             1,856            2,187            3,250             3,500
Rehabilitation                    0             1,946            1,212            19,802
Reconstruction                4,854-            7,658           22,396            19,949
Salaries                      0.115             0.269            0.411             0,554
Admin. Expend                  1,869            3,316            1,276             1,348
Other (land                                                      0.570             1,235
acquistion, etc.)
Total                        23,551            29,78A           46,12             67,447
The same type of reconstruction expenditure as in the Federation from multilateral and bilateral agencies
that has taken place in the Federation, can in RS be estimated to about 50 MUSD. In the other respects the
RS budget shows the full picture better than in the Federation since there are no cantonal expenditures nor
any extra budgetary investments. The EIB project has components also in RS, 40 MKM, but since they
involve reconstruction only and no new construction, reconstruction projects previously carried out with
domestic resources are counted as government counterpart funds and hence no additional government
contribution is required.
The total annual RS road sector expenditures over the next few years can thus be estimated as follows
(MKM):
RSRD              70   (assuming some 5% annual increase)
EIB project       10   (assuming a four year implementation)
C. Road Requirements
Although there is no hard data to show how fast the development in the road sector has been since the war,
the evidence that there is shows that the development has been very fast with respect to traffic volumes, at
least on the main roads. No traffic counts were made until 2000 when a countrywide traffic counting and
roadside origin-destination survey was carried out within the framework of the BiH Transport Master Plan
Study. Although this was a very limited study, valuable information was gained. In 2001 RSRD has started
systematic counts which will provide the basis for a continuous monitoring of traffic volumes and
conditions. A similar exercise should get underway in the Federation. Another important development is
that traffic on some parts of the network has been redistributed, changing the relative importance of several
roads as a result of the war and the ensuing political changes. To take these changes into account, a
reclassification of the roads, to reflect actual physical and administrative conditions, is recommended. This
is particularly more important in the Federation where FBHRD is responsible for the main roads while the
cantons are responsible for secondary roads.
The absence of more precise data make projections relatively uncertain but such projections can also
provide interesting background to the decisions to be taken. The Transport Master Plan Study has
- 74 -



attempted to forecast traffic, classify roads and determine necessary road expenditures. The traffic
forecasts, using conventional techniques and based on an assumption of a GDP per capita in 2020 of KM
5,404, ie a 4.5% annual increase, give a total increase in road traffic by 3.5% annually (which seems low),
i.e., a doubling of the present traffic in 2020.
Based on this traffic increase a number of conclusions are drawn, followed by recommended road
expenditure levels.
Capacity increasing investments will be necessary. These concern mainly accesses to the main
agglomerations as well as the north-south central axis, or corridor Vc, Ploce-Mostar-Sarajevo-Doboj-Brod,
where various sections have to be rebuilt/widened and some new sections are planned. In addition, there are
numerous existing main primary roads which need improvements. The question of capacity increases is tied
to a continuing rehabilitation of the networks which has been started under the Emergency Transport
Reconstruction Projects, under which more than 2000 km have been reconstructed. This is however an
ongoing activity and a more fundamental reconstruction, dealing with more than the pavement, has to be
planned. Finally, the improvement and increase in maintenance is a prerequisite for any long term road
planning.
Including a definition of main and regional road networks in both entities of about 4000 km in each, the
study arrives at the following required expenditures (MKM):
Category             Federation        Republic of Srpska          Total
Maintenance                            1,030                  941                 1.986
Rehabilitation                          829                   75s                 1,581
Proposed projects                      1,763                 1,136                2,933
Total                                  3,62k                2,8271                6,500
Thus for the 2001-2020 period a total of 6.5 bKM would be needed or about 325 MKM per year or about
175 and 150 MKM in the Federation and RS respectively. It should be noted that this calculation does not
assume anything about the distribution of responsibilities in the Federation between FBHRD and the
cantons, but only that there are about 4000 km of roads under consideration (FBHRD is currently
responsible for 2,024 km, i.e., the Federation's main road network).
This forecast shows that the present expenditure levels have to be gradually increased over the coming
years if the road networks are to be maintained and improved. More importantly, it also shows that the
maintenance budgets should be considerably raised, to about 50 MKM/year.
- 75 -






MAP SECTION






X -.i.-t  d  |-;i -t C R O A T I A      ,                 nllta
A, '\  ,  .s   .    - -'.    >                                r,.        >X s
r; \'t; 14-h , ,..1\./-t,, i ,X 
CRO AT,,,:             ( ",IA  .:. ... 1.,F.jpi1.-e- 1i
i > : > ; 5~~~N.1,'r. .- 3.        i,     .>S'
"   t; r  , : . I,,   9     - ; 9 1 -:      t  i     rs /               _      g ' J-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
li   0   1_      U   -    1l.e;         _J            X                 i'"'>~~~~~~~~~~~a
<: -   -        .    Pl:-e- -        /            i         ~~~~~~REPUBLIC
-  -  -   f       ,            \      ~~~~~~~~~OF YUGOSLAVIA
A  /r ia t Ic   Sea                           -    .2i 
BOSNIA ANID IIERZEGOVINA                                 r
ROAD SAFETY AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT 
_~~~~~~~~~~r fz .T ~'I   ~ ~ ~     ll.;..EllIl1
.                                            L  l,i .i  eel.  fil,  rr  l   S  ;rks-|-; fL ...................................... - sUlli; f _~~~~~~~~~~~-11 -11   I
il 'H.s .'':l ,f :ti,;  ,,,..
Hl ,t' ' :l l* I lull Il-L . fil .............. L : S . _~~~~~~~~



