Report No. 23325
Report No: I071347 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/03/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA      Project ID: P071347
Project: Road Management and Safety Project      Task Team Leader: Cesar Queiroz
Appraisal Date: September 12, 2001       IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: March 28, 2002       IDA Amount ($m): 30.00
Managing Unit: ECSIE     Sector: TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project development objective is to improve traffic flow and reduce
accident rates on the country's road network through rehabilitation of
priority road sections associated with identified poor road condition and
accident 'black spots'.
I.A.3. Project Description:
1. Road maintenance, rehabilitation, and safety improvements for the main
and regional road network, including about 280 km of priority road
sections in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and about 290 km of
priority road sections in Republika Srpska.
2. Institutional strengthening of the FRD and RSRD, including setting up
of road and bridge data banks, introducing the use of HDM for setting road
maintenance priorities, supervision for civil works, the use of
competitive bidding procedures, familiarization with modern road
maintenance technologies, improved financial management systems,
establishing environmental units in each of the Road Directorates and to
support these units in implementing their Environmental Management Plans
(EMPs), training of staff and audits of the project accounts. Also, this
component includes a program of technical support for BRIC, including
establishing improved and uniform road and bridge design standards,
creation of a road safety data base and conducting safety awareness
campaigns, development of the capacity to evaluate private sector
proposals for investments in road concessions, and the coordination of
inter-Entity and international road matters, as well as staff training.
Also included is office equipment and supplies, and vehicles and equipment
for road works surveys and supervision for FRD and RSRD, and office
equipment, vehicles and supplies for BRIC.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will include improvements to road sections located on the main
and secondary road networks of the country, in both the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska. In accordance with World
Bank Safeguard Policies (OP/BP/GP 4.01 Environmental Assessment) the



project is rated environmental category B and Environmental Management
Plans (EMPs) were prepared by each of the Entity Road Directorates. The
project is expected to have only minor negative impacts on the
environment, as it will focus on road maintenance and rehabilitation
activities, with no resettlement or land acquisition activities involved.
Slight negative impacts are primarily during the construction phase and
would be restricted to road works related to movements of men, and
materials (asphalt, rocks, dust, noise etc.), excavation of borrow pits,
altered drainage patterns, disposal of wastes and associated activities of
road crews. After completion, the project will have positive indirect
impacts on human health and safety through decreased number of accidents;
reduced air pollution from more even travel speeds on rehabilitated road
sections; reduced water pollution resulting from rehabilitated drainage
systems; reduced noise levels from those collectivities located close to
the rehabilitated road sections. Materials (e.g. asphalt, stone, etc.)
would be supplied only from sources with approved licenses, permits,
and/or approvals for environment and worker safety, and any equipment used
during construction would meet internationally recognized standards for
environment and worker health and safety.
B. Check Environmental Classification: ERROR: Invalid UNID; UNID must be
a 32-digit hex string.
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Draft EMPs had been prepared by the Borrower for road maintenance and
rehabilitation activities under the project. The EMPs include: mitigation
plan, monitoring plan, institutional strengthening needs, institutional
arrangements for environmental management, implementation schedule, and a
record of the public consultations. The documents were of outstanding
quality. The World Bank reviewed them with the Borrower during Appraisal
and requested some minor revisions and clarifications. During project
implementation, provisions of the EMPs will be applied to all activities
undertaken by the road administrations, including design of road works. As
-2 -



appropriate, mitigation measures specified in the EMPs will be
incorporated as requirements in each bidding document for works. The
contracts will contain adequate provisions to ensure that the contractors
undertake the measures specified in the EMPs. The Road Directorates will
be committed, under Project Agreements, to implement their part of the EMP
through their environmental units established under the project and with
the support of the Entities environmental agencies.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Stakeholders were fully consulted after the EMPs were prepared.
Descriptions of who were consulted, when, where, and the method of
consultation are fully described in the EMP Section F. Pubic hearings were
held near those communities located close to road sections to be
rehabilitated under the project to ensure that those most directly
concerned by the project can, by voicing their opinions and suggestions,
increase the quality and efficiency of the works design. Maintenance and
rehabilitation works to be funded under the project include activities
ranging from cleaning ditches and pothole patching to new overlays on
certain road sections. The project will also fund the modification of
dangerous intersections and the creation of parking areas on mountainous
road sections. However, these works will be performed on road sections
that are not located within inhabited areas, and will be confined to the
road right-of-way. Given the fact that the works to be carried out are
standard and do not have the potential to substantially modify the
environment within which the communities are located, hearings will take
place during preparation of the individual subprojects, and will be in
accordance with guidelines to be agreed by the Road Directorates.
Furthermore a clause in Section E (Institutional Arrangements) of the EMP
requires each Entity Road Directorate to submit any proposed work activity
to appropriate environmental authorities for their approval or to submit
any additional documentation to them that they may require for their
approval.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
-3-



I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      9/3/2001         9/3/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure 9/12/2001         9/12/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop   9/5/2001         9/5/2001
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)        11/26/2001
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Cesar Queiroz   11/14/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Bernard Baratz/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Patrizia Poggi/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Stan Peabody     11/21/01
Sector Manager/Director:         Eva Molnar       11/29/01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



