Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3626 BOS
Project Agreement
(Road Management and Safety Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
Dated June 18, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3626 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of June 18, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Federation).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between Bosnia 
and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty four million two hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights                                 (SDR 24,200,000) (the Credit), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Federation agrees to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered intobetween the Borrower and the 
Federation (the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement), the Borrower will make available to the 
Federation a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Federation, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts A and C of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Federation declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall, carry out Parts A and C 
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, technical and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for said Parts A and C of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the 
Association and the Federation shall otherwise agree, the Federation shall carry out Parts A and C of the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and services required for Parts A and C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) The Federation shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods, works and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Parts 
A and C of the Project.
Page  3
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without limitation 
thereto, the Federation shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and the 
Federation, a plan for the future operation of Parts A and C of the Project; 
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Federation on said plan; and
(iii)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association’s 
comment thereon.
Section 2.04. The Federation shall exercise its rights under the Federation Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Federation and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) The Federation shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the progress of Parts A and C of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement and other matters relating 
to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
The Federation shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit, or the performance by the Federation of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Federation shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in a format acceptable to the Association 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures in connection with the carrying out of Parts 
A and C of the Project.
(b)
The Federation shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
Page  4
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; 
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the reporting obligations set forth in Sections 2.03 and 
2.05 of this Agreement, the Federation shall furnish  to the Association a financial monitoring report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which:
(i) 
sets forth actual sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds provided under 
the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  such 
funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and 
planned Project implementation; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
(b)
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
forty five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Management Report shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the later date of: the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective, or the date when this Agreement has been 
executed by the parties hereto.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of the Federation 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
Page  5
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before the 
date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the Federation of 
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by 
hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile radiogramto the party to which it is required or 
permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as 
such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  The 
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina:
Federation Ministry of Finance
Mehmeda Spahe 5
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile:
387 33 203 152
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Federation, or by the Federation on 
behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by its 
Minister of Finance or such other person or persons as the Federation shall designate in writing, and the 
Federation shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Page  6
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an 
original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Sarajevo, Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /s/  Joseph Ingram
Authorized Representative
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By   /s/   
Safet Halilovic
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
The Federation shall carry out Part A of the Project through the FDRFRD, in accordance with the 
PIP.
2.
The Federation and Republika Srpska shall jointly carry out Part C of the Project, through 
FDRFRD and RSRD respectively, in accordance with the PIP.
3.
The Federation shall maintain the PIP until the completion of the Project and, unless the 
Association may otherwise agree, not amend, repeal or waive the PIP or any provision thereof.
4.
The Federation shall:
(a)
ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of the Environmental 
Management Plan are taken in a timely manner; and
(b)
include adequate information on the carrying out of measures described in the 
Environmental Management Plan in the progress reports referred to in paragraph 9 of this Schedule.
5.
The Federation shall open an account, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
where it will deposit its share of Project costs, for the implementation of Parts A and C of the Project, 
starting with an initial amount of Euro6 400,000 equivalent, and thereafter, on a quarterly basis, as 
needed.
Page  7
6.
The Federation shall increase the annual, on average, budgets for the FRD by twenty percent 
(20%) for each year during the implementation of the Project, starting January 1, 2003, ensuring that 
such increase in any year shall not be less than 15%.2 
7.
The Federation shall ensure that no private land be affected by the Project unless procedures for 
compensation and replacement have been reviewed and found satisfactory to the Association.
8.
The Federation shall, by August 31 of each year during the implementation of the Project, 
furnish to the Association the annual project implementation work programs for the FDRFRD for the 
next [calendar] year, including procurement and financing plans, and by October 31 each year 
______________ review these plans with the Association before implementing them.
9.
The Federation shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an 
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, the 
carrying out of Parts A and C of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association, by August 31, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of Parts A and C of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Parts A and C of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts A and C of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods, Works  and Technical Services
Part A
: General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 
1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and 
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” and 
“member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and 
Page  8
“Participating Country”.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraph 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply 
to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $210,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for 
the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under Part B of this Section I and the first two 
contracts procured under Part C.1., the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to contracts procured under Part C.2 of this Section I, the following 
Page  9
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation 
of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of the Introduction 
and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject 
to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) 
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” and 
“member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and 
“Participating Country”.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Page  10
Services for auditing services and services under Part A.2(a) of the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for small contracts for the preparation of public information campaign and training 
design and related services, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. 
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall 
have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval in accordance with paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
Page  11
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
