                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000531




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-36260)




                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 24.2 MILLION
                        (US$30.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                           BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA

                                    FOR A

                 ROAD MANAGEMENT AND SAFETY PROJECT

                               December 10, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2007)
                      Currency Unit = Konvertible Mark
                            KM 1.00 = US$ 0.690
                            US$ 1.00 = KM 1.449

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 ­ December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AADT    Average Annual Daily Traffic
BiH     Bosnia and Herzegovina
BMS     Bridge Management System
BRIC    Bosnia and Herzegovina Road Infrastructure Public Corporation
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB     European Investment Bank
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
EMP     Environment Management Plan
ETRP    Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
FBHRD   Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Road Directorate
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GRD     General Roads Directorate
HDM     Highway Development and Management Model
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
NGOs    Non Governmental Organizations
OHR     Office of High Representative
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PID     Project Implementation Directorate
PMS     Pavement Management System
PPP     Public-Private Partnership
RED     Road Economic Decision Model
RMSP    Road Management and Safety Project
ROCKS   Road Costs Knowledge System
RS      Republika Srpska
RSRD    Republika Srpska Road Directorate


                        Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                      Country Manager: Marco Mantovanelli
                       Sector Manager: Motoo Konishi
                  Project Team Leader: Jacques Bure
                     ICR Team Leader: Jacques Bure

                              BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA
                         Road Management and Safety Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 14
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 15
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 16
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 17
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 19
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 21
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 23
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 24
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 25
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 27
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 28
 MAP IBRD 31452

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Road Management and
Country:                Bosnia and Herz       Project Name:
                                                                    Safety Project
Project ID:             P071347               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-36260
ICR Date:               12/10/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    BOSNIA AND
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    HERZEGOVINA
Original Total
                        XDR 24.2M             Disbursed Amount:     XDR 23.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Republika Srpska Road Directorate
Fedreration Road Directorate
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/14/2001    Effectiveness:       10/16/2002         10/16/2002
Appraisal:             10/01/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/28/2002    Mid-term Review:                        11/15/2004
                                     Closing:             06/30/2007         06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                  Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                15                  15
Roads and highways                                               85                  85


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                           Secondary         Secondary
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction            Primary           Primary
Other financial and private sector development                 Secondary         Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                               Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                       Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos             Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:           Motoo Konishi                      Eva Molnar
Project Team Leader:      Jacques Bure                       Cesar Augusto Queiroz
ICR Team Leader:          Jacques Bure
ICR Primary Author:       Antti P. Talvitie



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To improve traffic flow and reduce accident rates on the country's road network through
rehabilitation of priority road sections associated with identified poor road condition and
accident 'black spots'.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                               ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval           Target       Completion or
                                               documents)          Values        Target Years
                Post construction traffic surveys demonstrate the achievement of expected
Indicator 1 :   reductions in travel time and increase in traffic volumes when compared to pre-
                construction traffic surveys
Value           Traffic Volume on 32
quantitative or road segments amounts to   157,000 AADT on                    154.000
Qualitative)    132,370 AADT               32 road segments

Date achieved 06/01/2002                   06/30/2007                         06/30/2007

Comments        Target fully achieved (100%). Data on two road segments not available. One

(incl. %        segment with 2002 ADT 13200 was replaced by a local low volume road

achievement)    segment, in very poor condition. Ex-ante ERR of the former was 29.7. Ex-post
                ERR for the chosen road was 84.3

Indicator 2 :   Post-construction accident records indicate significant reduction in accidents at
                'black spots'
Value           500 traffic deaths per year400 traffic deaths
quantitative or                                                               414 traffic deaths in
                in the country             per year in the
Qualitative)                               country                            2006

Date achieved 06/01/2003                   06/30/2007                         12/31/2006
Comments         The target was substantially achieved. Accidents are random events and not
(incl. %        predictable. Achievement of 97% is fully satisfactory. 2007 statistics are not yet
achievement)    available.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval           Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)       Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Road databank established in the Entity Road Directorates
Value
(quantitative   0% established             100% established     n/a           Fully achieved
or Qualitative)                            in both

Date achieved 06/01/2003                   12/31/2003           12/31/2003    12/13/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Road data bank was established and in use (100%). The initial target date of

achievement)    completing the task in 6 months was unreasonable.

Indicator 2 :   Post construction audits indicate compliance with agreed road standards.
Value
(quantitative   not yet applied            comply with          n/a           Fully achieved
or Qualitative)                            standards

Date achieved 06/01/2002                   06/30/2007           06/30/2007    12/30/2006



                                                iii

Comments
(incl. %       Target fully achieved (100%).
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Road Directorate Staffs trained.
Value
(quantitative  not trained               trained           n/a              trained
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2002                 06/30/2003        06/30/2003       12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %       Target fully achieved (100%). Training occurred in stages. HDM and EA

achievement)   methods and processes in 2004. Data base usage and updating in 2005.

Indicator 4 :  Improved financial management sytems in place in FED and RS.
Value
(quantitative  Not in place              In place          n-a              In place
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2002                 06/30/2002        06/30/2002       06/30/2003
Comments
(incl. %       Financial management systems partially in place in 2002 and fully operational in

achievement)   2003. Target 100% achieved.

Indicator 5 :  Design and material standards updated
Value
(quantitative  not updated               Updated                            Updating fully

or Qualitative)                                                             achieved

Date achieved 06/01/2002                 12/31/2003                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Target fully achieved (100%) and in use. The original target date was

achievement)   unreasonable.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                        IP                 Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     06/10/2002           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     06/19/2002           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     11/13/2002           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.00
  4     06/04/2003           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       1.14
  5     12/01/2003           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       4.00
  6     06/08/2004           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     10.58
  7     12/06/2004           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     12.65
  8     05/31/2005           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     19.60
  9     11/23/2005           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     29.62
  10    05/24/2006           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     32.17
  11    12/22/2006           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     33.26
  12    04/02/2007           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     34.10
  13    06/29/2007           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     34.25




                                              iv

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                             v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) has a population of 4.2 million, a GDP per capita of US$3200 in
2006, and is one of the poorer regions of the former Yugoslavia. Under the Dayton Peace
Agreement, BiH was established in two parts (referred to as the "Entities"): the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Federation), and the Republika Srpska (RS), together with the self-
governing Brcko Administrative District, which comes under the Office of the High
Representative (OHR). There is a central government with State level institutions, with a limited
mandate, that encompass the entire country, but each of the two Entities has a Parliament and line
ministries.

The road network of Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of approximately 22,600 km, with 3,788
km of main roads (of which about 96 % are paved), 4,842 km of regional roads and 14,000 km of
local roads. Of these, 2,024 km of main and 2,724 km of regional roads are in the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina, and 1,764 km of main and 2,118 km of regional roads are in the
Republika Srpska.       Following transition, the economy and the trade patterns reoriented
themselves, and consequently some roads now carry traffic volumes that are incompatible with
their current technical status or design.

Following the end of hostilities in 1995, an emergency transport reconstruction program was
presented to the international donor community. This program was implemented through the
Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project (ETRP; US$149 million of which IDA financed
US$35 million) and its successor, the Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
(SETRP; US$184 million of which IDA financed US$39 million.) The primary objective of
these two projects was to remove critical infrastructure bottlenecks in order to permit the
resumption of operation of the country's major transport network.

At the time the Road Management and Safety project (RMSP) was prepared, most of the
emergency needs identified in 1995 had been met, due in large part to funding under the ETRP
and the SETRP. The key segments of the main and regional road network had been rehabilitated,
and essential maintenance carried out on these roads. Sarajevo, Mostar and Banja Luka airports
were operating to civilian standards. Trains ran on most of the network, although at minimum
safety and technical standards; and public transportation had resumed country-wide. The local
contracting and consulting industries were also strengthened.

Despite the emergency program, a significant part of the main road network remained in poor
condition, because of insufficient funding for maintenance before, during and after the hostilities.
Whilst the condition of the main road network in Republika Srpska had been broadly stabilized,
the road network in the Federation continued to deteriorate. Contributing factors to the unstable
road management environment were the excessive axle-loads and an increase in traffic volume,
especially around the main cities, averaging annually about 7 %, and the lack of tools to manage
the network in a professional manner.

A number of important issues could not be addressed in the context of the two previous
emergency operations. These were: (i) the need to establish a sustainable road maintenance
capacity throughout the state; (ii) the need to improve the efficiency of public funds for road
maintenance; (iii) the provision of resources to sustain and improve the serviceability of the



                                                1

existing road network; and (iv) the attention to the growing problem of road traffic safety, where
fatalities and accidents were increasing every year. Without action in all these areas, the road
network and traffic safety would deteriorate rapidly and impede development.

The themes underpinning the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy at appraisal was to increase
economic opportunity and improve the quality of life for all inhabitants of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, with poverty reduction as an overarching theme.              Specifically, the strategic
objectives of the CAS were: (i) to help strengthen governance structures; (ii) foster private sector-
led growth and employment; and (iii) establish affordable and equitable social services. As road
transport accounts for over 95 % of all goods and passenger movements, provision for efficient
and low cost road transport is essential to the attainment of the second and third objectives.
Better and safer roads support local, regional and international commerce, and social integration,
and contribute to a reduction in the economic and social costs of road traffic accidents. The
project design, discussed later, facilitated the pursuit of the CAS development objectives of better
governance, private sector development, alleviation of poverty through employment opportunities,
and access to social services.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The PAD defines the Project Development Objective in terms of improved traffic flow and road
traffic safety:

         "To improve traffic flow and reduce accident rates on the country's road network through
         rehabilitation of priority road sections associated with identified poor road condition and
         accident 'black spots'."

One indicator was identified for traffic flow and another one for road traffic safety:

    · The first PDO indicator was couched in terms of both traffic volume and expected travel
         time reduction in those road segments chosen for rehabilitation; and

    · The second PDO indicator was quantified as traffic deaths per year in the country. It was
         based on measuring post-construction accident records at 'black spots' locations when
         compared to pre-construction records.


1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

The PDO and the indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The PAD identifies large segments of BiH society and economy as potential beneficiaries: road
users; producers and consumers of goods transported by road; sector consultants and contractors;
and the citizens of BiH benefiting from better and more efficient road administration and
management--especially financial management. The planned privatization of road maintenance
companies and the transfer of road maintenance to private contractors would provide private
sector jobs and help the Entities to reduce the public sector work force. By strengthening the
Entities' environmental management capacity and the means available to monitor environmental
impacts the project would increase awareness on environmental issues.             Finally, particular



                                                   2

mention is made of the low income populations, who were to benefit through improved access to
markets for their agricultural products, and to social services.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Project Component 1: Road Rehabilitation and Safety. Cost at appraisal US$36.63
million; cost at completion US$42.94.1 This component addressed estimated maintenance and
rehabilitation needs on the main and secondary road network, including the upgrading of drainage,
identified accident black spots, road markings, crash barriers and signaling. It included the
improvement of:

    · 230 km of priority road sections in the Federation (US$25.37 million); and
    · 290 km of priority road sections in Republika Srpska (US$11.26 million)

Project Component 2: Institutional Strengthening. Cost at appraisal US$4.90 million; cost
at completion US$6.51.           This component provided consultant services and goods for the
institutional strengthening of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Road Directorate
(FBHRD), the Republika Srpska Road Directorate (RSRD), and the Bosnia & Herzegovina Road
Infrastructure Public Corporation (BRIC) 2.

The institutional strengthening of the Road Directorates included3:

    · The establishment of a road and bridge data bank, introducing the use of Highway
         Development and Management Model (HDM) for setting road maintenance and
         rehabilitation priorities and annual road works programs;
    · The strengthening of quality control procedures for civil works;
    · The establishment of competitive bidding procedures;
    · Awareness programs toward modern road maintenance technologies;
    · The support to improve financial management systems;
    · The creation of core environmental capacities, including establishing environmental units
         in each of the Road Directorates and the review of environmental standards and
         monitoring pertaining to the road sector;
    · The training of FBHRD and RSRD staff ; and
    · The audit of the project accounts.



1The SDR exchange rate strengthening caused the disbursement in dollars to be greater at completion than
planned at appraisal ­spread equally between the components.

2BRIC was created in 2001 in an attempt by both Entity Governments to deal with inter-entity and
international roads infrastructure. BRIC was created to ensure inter-Entity cooperation on institutional
level and to act as the supervisory and regulatory body in the roads sub-sector at the State level. Despite
several attempts of international institutions to help, the BRIC is still not operational six years after its
creation.

3The PAD enumerates a slightly different list of institutional strengthening activities for RSRD than for
FBHRD. During implementation, the strengthening program was merged into one for the two road
directorates, as defined above in the ICR text.




                                                        3

FBHRD and RDRD were to receive the following equipment, materials and supplies from the
institutional strengthening component to support their activities and to improve road
management:

    · For FBHRD: office equipment and supplies needed to implement the road data bank, for
         the operation of an adequate financial and planning system and a road safety system, and
         vehicles and survey equipment for road works (US$0.48 million); and
    · For RSRD: road measurement equipment and related office equipment needed to
         establish the road and bridge data banks (US$0.25 million).

The BRIC was to receive US$0.50 million financing for equipment, supplies and vehicles
(US$0.05 million) and technical support (US$0.45 million)4. The financial support to BRIC was
reallocated because BRIC, while consistent with the requirements of the Dayton Peace
Agreement and meritorious as a concept, was considered ahead of its time and could not be
established in the prevailing political circumstances.

1.6 Revised Components

In July 2005, the Credit Agreement was amended by deleting the financial support to BRIC. This
revision affected the content of Component 2 and the funding allocation. The BRIC related
financing was reallocated between the Federation (SDR 230,000) and the Republika Srpska (SDR
120,000) to Goods and Consultant services.

Originally, the total cost of the project components made available to the Federation was to be
US$27.68 million (equivalent), of which US$19.67 million (equivalent) would be financed from
the IDA Credit. For RS, the total project costs were to be US$13.07 million equivalent, of which
US$9.83 million would be financed from the IDA Credit. For Bosnia & Herzegovina Road
Infrastructure Public Corporation (BRIC), the project cost were US$0.50 million (equivalent), all
of which would be financed from the IDA Credit. However, because the BRIC component never
materialized the final allocation of the Credit funds was US$20.00 million for the Federation and
US$10.00 million for the Republika Srpska. Because of exchange rate savings two additional
road segments were added to the road rehabilitation program in 2006.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

There were no significant changes in design, scope and scale excepting those mentioned above in
paragraph 1.6 above.




4 The program included: (i) establishing improved and uniform road and bridge design standards; (ii)
creation of a road safety data base and conducting safety awareness campaigns; (iii) development of the
capacity to evaluate private sector proposals for investments in road concessions; (iv) the coordination of
inter-Entity and international road matters; and (v) the training of the BRIC staff.


                                                       4

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Past Lessons: Project Preparation. The project was well prepared. It benefited from the
experience, studies and lessons from the two emergency projects. The lessons were: (i) well-
managed institutions and institutional capacity are keys to successful projects; (ii) institution
building requires time; and (iii) the provision of agreed counterpart financing is essential for
project implementation.

In the emergency projects, Project Implementation Directorates (PIDs) were established in each
Entity to focus the work and increase the likelihood of stability. Later, the PIDs were integrated
into the general administrative structure. As a result, this project was one of the first in BiH to
rely on a project implementation team, composed entirely of full-time employees of BiH Entity
administrations. It was observed that, not unlike any other country, institutional development
requires time for sustainable progress.

In order to respond to the institutional capacity issues the project was designed with several
practical institution building tasks in both FBHRD and RSRD that lasted over the entire
implementation period. Counterpart financing was addressed in the context of overall road
management needs and costs. The project design, basing its requirement on a study on road user
charges and maintenance needs, required certain percentage increases in the annual road budget
(15% on average for FBHRD) and in routine maintenance budget (>5% for RSRD), in addition to
the demands for counterpart financing.

Project preparation, while informed by the past, was primarily forward-looking.               Studies,
financed by trust funds and various organizations, were available or conducted and guided the
project's design (Annex 9). These included the above mentioned road user charge study, a report
on Traffic Accidents on Magistral Roads, updating of the road laws in both entities, the Bosnia
and Herzegovina Transport Master Plan, social assessments, and several reports on the economics
of road rehabilitation in the entities. A Seminar on Roads and the Environment was also
organized during project preparation.

In a context of economic reorientation by the State to respond to new market demands and trading
partners, and nascent sector institutions, the project's preparation and design were first-rate. They
focused outward, toward the future and on concrete and visible accomplishments. Institutionally,
the project brought together several practical and important tasks: data acquisition methods,
surveys and technologies; establishment of required data bases; conduct of economic analyses;
competitive bidding; quality control in supervision of the road works; setting up environmental
units in the road directorates; financial management systems; and training. The project's road
works focused on tangible near term improvements: maintenance and rehabilitation of main and
secondary roads, removal of collision black spots, installing road markings and crash barriers to
reduce crashes and collisions.

Safeguard Policies. The project was classified as Category "B" under the Bank's Operational
Policy 4.01. During the design studies, background environmental data was collected and minor
environmental effects were identified such as dust, borrow pits, and the interference with the
existing surface and ground water flows.         Mitigation plans were prepared which included



                                                   5

installation of proper drainage systems, and measures imposed on the contractors to minimize
dust and noise during construction. Environmental capacities, including the establishment of
environmental units in each of the Road Directorates, and review processes for environmental
standards and monitoring in the road sector were part of the fulfillment of the safeguard policies.

Project Risks: The main risks were identified to be of a broad institutional nature rather than the
economic returns to the investments made within the project. Mitigating measures were planned
for each of the specific risks as follows:

         ·     Insufficient counterpart funds or their availability. Risk was reduced by the joint
               annual review of the proposed budgets in each Entity to be consistent with project
               covenants and agreements;

         ·     Strained implementation capacity and resistance to change or adoption of new
               processes at the Road Directorates or private contractors. The project included
               support to strengthen FBHRD and RSRD in both human resources and technical
               aspects. The staff of the road directorates indicated their cooperation to training.
               The private contractors had already demonstrated their interest and capability to
               follow new procedures;

         ·     Lack of involvement of the (new) environmental agencies in project activities. To
               promote engagement, the respective road directorates were asked to prepare the
               Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) which were observed to be of high
               quality. One is regarded as an example of `best practice' in the region;

         ·    Availability of adequate staffing resources at the implementing agencies. The PIDs
               were integrated with the Road Directorates' normal operations, this increasing the
               pool of available personnel on demand basis. The importance of staff resources
               was emphasized to the Council of Ministers; and

         ·     Financial management. A comprehensive financial management assessment was
               carried out during project preparation and a set of risk mitigation measures
               consisting of requirements for technical audit reports, privatization of contractors,
               involvement of communities, and appropriately crafted procurement arrangements
               were identified and carried out.

Quality of Design. In sum, the project design was geared to achieve the objectives in a
comprehensive way appropriate to the social and economic environment in BiH. It was based on
the lessons from the past and cognizant of the prevailing socioeconomic environment. Regarding
specific components, engineering design for the roads selected for improvement were prepared by
consortia of consulting engineers, comprising an international firm and a local firm. This was
satisfactory and the results on the ground are of good quality. The design of the institutional
component was also satisfactory. Consultants with experience in the region carried out the tasks
in cooperation with local consultants. Finally, fruitful cooperation has been maintained with
other donors in the country.

2.2 Implementation

The program of road and tunnel rehabilitation and maintenance, and accident black spot removal
proceeded satisfactorily and with good quality works. The project was not restructured and was



                                                 6

not at risk at any time. The Mid-Term Review did not uncover anything untoward, or necessitate
any restructuring, or re-focusing, of the project.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The development of the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) data systems had to start from scratch.
In the absence of comprehensive road sector data, the design of the M&E system was
uncomplicated and reflected the objectives of the project "to improve traffic flow and reduce
accident rates on the country's road network through rehabilitation of priority road sections
associated with identified poor road condition and accident 'black spots'", rather than the
performance of the entire road sector. During the project, the two PDO indicators were
supplemented with output-based project implementation indicators to track the completion of the
road and bridge works and the development of data bases to establish the baseline for road
condition, traffic volumes and accidents to monitor trends and achievement of objectives. The
following M&E indicators were followed and used during implementation:

The PDO Indicators:

     (i) Traffic volume and expected travel time reduction in the road segments chosen for
          rehabilitation; and
     (ii) Deaths caused by road accidents per year.

Project output M&E indicators:

     (i)     Road Rehabilitation and Safety: high priority road sections and bridges rehabilitated
             within the country's road network, including accident 'black spots';
     (ii)    Compliance with agreed (and improved) road standards and approved designs in
             rehabilitated segments; and
     (iii)   Institutional Strengthening: Sector agencies (including FBHRD, RSRD) capacity
             and authority in road management, planning, program administration, and
             enforcement of regulations; necessary office technology and laboratory equipment
             available:
          · Setting up of road data banks in FBHRD and RSRD;
          · Training of FBHRD and RSRD staffs in necessary skill areas: HDM, PPP Seminar,
             Quality Management training, RED (Road Economic) and ROCKS (road costs data
             base) seminars;
          · Installation of improved financial systems within FBHRD and RSRD; and
          · Updating of road design and material standards.

Monitoring of the road works output indicators and the institutional strengthening indicators was
straightforward and their targets were fully met, although some with a slight delay.           The
absorption of the road management and planning skills and utilization of the management models
is a longer term activity and will need continued follow-up. However, it is worth underlining that
these tools were used by both Road Directorates to prepare the program of works for new projects,
funded by the EIB, EBRD and the World Bank. Data collection for the road data bank is an
ongoing activity, which will establish baselines for both road condition using the recently
acquired road condition measurement equipment, and for road safety. As of the date of the ICR,
RSRD has conducted road surveys; FBHRD is just starting after the delivery of the road
condition survey equipment.       In sum, the data systems for measuring the impact of road
maintenance and safety programs are in place, but whilst integration with institutional



                                                  7

management processes has started, full integration will take a period longer than the period of
project implementation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Protection and Resettlement: The rehabilitation and maintenance of roads and
tunnels, and accident black spot removal, took place entirely within the existing right-of-way and
so the lasting impact of the project on the environment was, if anything, positive. There was no
land acquisition or resettlement. Enhancement of environmental capacities, including establishing
environmental units in each of the Road Directorates, and review processes for environmental
standards and monitoring in the road sector were part of the fulfillment of the safeguard policies.
As part of project preparation, at appraisal, a seminar was held to introduce the entities'
government officials to environmental management issues impacts/mitigation, consultation,
disclosure and regulatory requirements of the donor community and the EU. The mitigation
measures prescribed in the project EMPs for minimizing the environmental impact during and
after construction were implemented satisfactorily.

Fiduciary: The accounts of the Road Directorates were independently audited every year during
the project implementation and the audits were consistently found to be satisfactory.         The
financial management specialist was a member of several supervision missions.

The change in the legal form of the Road Directorate in Republika Srpska to public company
"Republika Srpska Roads" (PC "RS Roads") (para 3.5(b)) did not affect the project audits, which
remained satisfactory, but may entail fiduciary company responsibilities whose importance has
not yet been assessed. The Federation's Road Department underwent a similar restructuring,
following the passage of the 2002 Road Law, to become the Directorate of Roads of the
Federation of BiH.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

As noted earlier, the Road Directorates went through reorganization during the life of the project.
By the time of the closing date of the project, the Road Directorates are responsible for the
administration and management of the national roads (and secondary roads in the RS), and
undertake all maintenance and civil works by contract. The road budgets have been increased by
larger amounts than agreed at appraisal, although the increases were not so uniform as to always
meet the covenants every year. However, some portions of the BiH road network should be
upgraded as their characteristics are not aligned with present traffic volumes and the economic
"architecture" in Europe. Road safety also needs continued attention and improvement. The
risks to operation and maintenance of the improved roads, which remained open to traffic
throughout the project, and the existing network as a whole, are less related to institutional
capacity or availability funds for reasonable maintenance, but to the lack of funds to increase
capacity and the (inherited) standard of design on what now are the main and regional roads in
BiH, to be maintainable and meet the growing demand. Continued donor support is needed for an
extended period to remove the backlog maintenance on the national roads, as well as providing
funds to upgrade those roads to increase main road capacity, remove collision black spots, and
continue to develop human resources at the Road Directorates.          These priorities are well
represented in the design of the new World Bank project, the Road Infrastructure and Safety
Project.




                                                 8

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives and the project content remain relevant to the country priorities and the
Country Assistance Strategy5. The CAS indicates support to BiH's medium term development
objectives by focusing on: (a) improving public finance and strengthening institutions; (b)
promoting sustainable private sector-led growth; and (c) investing in key social and economic
infrastructure. "The CAS strives to help Government reduce the weight of the public sector on the
economy...[and] will support greater efficiency of the public sector, particularly in the delivery of
pro-poor social and economic infrastructure services, while improving governance in both private
and public sectors." . The CAS underlined the importance of improved efficiency and access to
core economic infrastructure and reduction of transport time and costs for promoting sustainable
private sector-led growth.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project objectives were fully achieved. The roads were rehabilitated as planned, road
accident rates have decreased, and the technical assistance components were completed to
improve sector governance. The following paragraphs give a brief description of the PDO
attainment; output details are in Annex 2.

1. To improve traffic flow on the country's road network through rehabilitation of priority road
sections associated with identified poor road condition.

As planned, over 520 km of roads were rehabilitated with high economic rates of return (see
annex 3 for details). Traffic on the sections has increased moderately and travel times have been
reduced. Both are reflected in the high ex-post Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the project.
As reported through the project M&E indicators (para 2.3), post construction reports indicate
compliance with agreed, new road standards and approved designs in rehabilitated segments.

2. To reduce accident rates on the country's road network through rehabilitation of priority road
sections associated with identified poor road condition and accident 'black spots'."

In the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, fatal and injury accidents reduced from 6216 in
2002 to 4914 in 2006. The total accident rate per 10,000 vehicles reduced from 5.11 to 4.43 over
the same period. In the Republika Srpska, fatal and injury accidents reduced from 2381 in 2002 to




5Country Report No: 29196-BA, International Development Association Country Assistance Strategy For
Bosnia and Herzegovina, South East Europe Country Unit, Europe and Central Asia Region, August 12,
2004. The new Country Partnership Strategy is under preparation at this time.




                                                  9

2139 in 2006. The total accident rate per 10,000 vehicles reduced from 6.4 to 5.6 over the same
period.

Accident statistics for the improved black spots are not available. Although traffic collision
statistics in the Federation and the Republic of Srpska show a downward trend at the project
completion, the rates are still high -- about five times as high as the safest Western European
countries. There are about as many accidents in the urban areas as on the inter-city roads. The
elderly people are the most vulnerable. The most common cause of collisions is speeding,
followed by the poor reliability of the vehicle fleet (about 70 % of the fleet is older than 10 years).

Although not part of the PDO, the project also included a successful institution and capacity
building component. It was monitored using several indicators (para 2.3), and reported in para
3.5 (b), and with more details in Annex 2.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The road rehabilitation component accounted for 80 % of total project costs. The economic
analysis for this component was based on the Highway Design and Management Model, Version
4 (HDM4) and used the orthodox engineering-economics method of comparing the discounted
stream of net benefits in the form of reductions in road user costs and road maintenance, less the
investment costs, after the project road improvements, a `do-something' against a `do-nothing'
scenario, the likely situation without the project. In both cases the annual growth of traffic, given
the base traffic counts before and after completion, was assumed to be 3.5 % per annum. The
post-case analysis was based on more accurate traffic data. No formalized economic analysis has
been carried out for the remaining 20 % of the project cost allocated to the institutional
strengthening of the Entity Road Directorates and to the black spot improvements. The benefit-
cost analyses after project completion were carried out for a representative sample of projects
covering 66 % of the project costs. A summary table of calculations is presented in Annex 4.

The ex-ante ERR for the project's road rehabilitation component was 26 %.                The ex-post
calculations, showing traffic increases, improved road condition and reduced travel times,
resulted in an ERR of 74 %. The economic re-evaluation thus confirms and substantially exceeds
the project benefits anticipated at appraisal.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall achievement of the project objectives is rated satisfactory. This assessment is based
on a review of achievements of the two PDO objectives given in section 3.2, the success in
institutional strengthening discussed in section 3.5(b), and the economic re-evaluation given in
section 3.3.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
A social assessment conducted during project preparation suggested to monitor "social
indicators" without specifying exactly what should be monitored. The Bank team and the
borrower together decided that at the moment of project implementation the "possible" was for


                                                 10

the road directorates to require the consultant on works supervision and environmental
monitoring: (1) to provide an inventory listing the "social facilities and structures" (such as
primary schools, secondary schools, other schools, health clinics, hospitals, etc) within 2 km of
either side of the road along each road section; and (2) to provide an estimate of the length of
road sub-segments, within a road segment under maintenance, which have a high potential for
vehicle-pedestrian conflict. These data were reported as the site surveys were completed for each
road segment and the data are available.

It would be valuable to repeat the data collection on these indicators, and perhaps collect other
data, in a follow-on project to draw inferences or recommendations on how to use these indicators
during the project and for future use. Such activity could be implemented under the Road
Infrastructure and Safety Project that is expected to become effective during Spring 2008.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project had a comprehensive and successful institutional development program both in the
Federation and the Republika Srpska. Of course, full consolidation of the TA program in day-to-
day management will continue both with and without follow-on projects. The most important
achievements of long-term significance in this project were monitored with the following
indicators (details in Annex 2):

Institutional Strengthening in FBHRD and RSRD:           Both road directorates gained increased
capacity and authority for road management, planning, program administration, and enforcement
of regulations; necessary office technology and laboratory equipment during the implementation
of the project. A road data bank is operational in each agency. Staff is trained in necessary skill
areas (HDM4, PPP Seminar, Quality Management training, RED (Road Economic) and ROCKS
(road costs data base). The financial systems have improved and the road design and material
standards have been updated.

Management and monitoring of the impact of the roads on the environment: Environmental
management plans and environmental monitoring for road works were introduced to the planning
and design process and units for traffic management and road safety were established in both road
administrations, and specialist staff was hired to implement these plans. These processes are now
used for all works conducted by the two RDs. The preparation and introduction of improved and
environmental guidelines for design, construction and maintenance support preparation and
supervision of road projects in accordance with modern standards, regulations and technologies,
is also a real and sustainable gain under the project.

Road and bridge data base: The road, bridge and tunnel data base and training of the RD staff in
the use of economic analysis (HDM4) enables setting of road maintenance and rehabilitation
priorities in the preparation of medium term plans for rehabilitation or reconstruction of the
network and enhances efficiency of road management. These processes have been used to
determine the program for the follow-on projects. They are also used to appraise the priorities for
other programs financed by EIB and EBRD.

Focus on road safety: The focus by the two road directorates on traffic management and road
safety is an important step toward lowering the collision rates in both entities. Better traffic
management and traffic safety education will in time have desired effects, especially in the cities.
The new Road Infrastructure and Safety project financed by the World Bank is set to continue
supporting these efforts.



                                                 11

Institutional adjustments:

     · There was a change in the legal status of the Road Directorate in Republika Srpska
         (RSRD). The full effects of that change are not yet known. In early 2004 the Public
         Company "Republika Srpska Roads" (PC "RS Roads") was established as a legal
         successor to the RSRD. The Law provides financing for PC "RS Roads" from (i) a
         percentage from the retail price of fuel determined annually by the RS Government, and
         (ii) vehicle registration fees. Despite the fact that a percentage of those funds has been
         re-directed to the RS Budget, the mechanism has created nonetheless a substantial
         increase for road maintenance financing­about 25 %. Also the change in the legal status
         now allows PC RS Roads to pay competitive salaries to retain competent staff and
         bestows on it a greater degree of decision-making autonomy. The implications of the
         new legal status on auditing and financial management have not yet been addressed; and

     · In the Federation, the Roads Law was approved in 2001, and enacted, following the
         decree of the President in early 2002. This Law provided the legal basis for the evolution
         of the old Federation Roads Department, within the Ministry of Transport and
         Communications, to a new Roads Directorate of the FBH to take responsibility for the
         management of the magistral (primary) road network, and the Cantons to take
         responsibility for the secondary road network. There is a new Roads Law under
         consideration in FBH, which will consolidate responsibilities in the sector under the
         Federation Road Directorate.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Not observed.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low to negligible.

Good quality of construction is and continued growth in traffic in the corridors improved by the
project, combined with vehicle operating cost savings, indicates that the economic benefits are
sustainable.    The (partial) commercialization of maintenance and the improvement of the
construction industry are also irreversible. Modern road management methods are gradually
taking hold; standards for roads and road materials have been updated; appropriate data systems
are being developed; environmental issues are addressed; traffic safety is improved; quality
assurance and supervision procedures are being standardized; competition is introduced and staff
is trained. The Government is committed to pursue broad institutional development and road
traffic safety improvements.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory



                                                 12

Project preparation was carried out with thoroughness, supported with studies and took into
account past lessons. Relations with the borrower were very good, and benefited from the
positive outcomes of the previous emergency projects that were implemented promptly and
efficiently. Studies for the road rehabilitation program were performed on a long list of projects
and high priority ones were chosen. The engineering design work was timely and bidding
documents for the first year projects were submitted to the Bank prior to Board presentation.
With good advanced preparation, disbursements were on schedule.                 Technical assistance
components were well conceived and based on substantial studies and prior intelligence gathering.
Bank missions during preparation included relevant expertise.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision averaged two missions per year. There were three different task managers during
implementation; overlapping tenures and availability of prior task managers for consultation
ensured continuity. There were no unusual events, and although there was some usual tardiness
in implementing the technical assistance components, the issues were addressed in the missions
and the project was completed on time and almost fully disbursed.6

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

On the basis of the individual ratings above, the overall rating of Bank performance is satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the Government during project preparation and implementation was
satisfactory. This was in part a repeater project for the emergency projects, so the familiarity with
the Bank requirements and procedures helped preparation and implementation. The Government
also moved to integrate the PIDs within the Road Directorates organization, which served the
useful purpose of institutional learning to gradually start to utilize state-of-the art methods for
design, setting priorities, procurement, supervision, and environmental assessment in all the
Directorates projects. With regard to road safety, as already mentioned, the Government did not
establish a coordinator for the accident data register, owing to the failure to establish BRIC, but
the Entities stepped in and established their own separate data registers.




6 At signing the loan amount was US$30 million. Because of exchange rate changes US$34.7 million was
disbursed leaving US$1.0 million undisbursed. In 2005 two additional road segments were added to the
program and completed before the Credit closing date. In SDR terms SDR 0.64 million was not disbursed.




                                                  13

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The implementing agencies were the Road Directorates FBHRD and RSRD. Both had performed
well under the previous emergency projects and had established PIDs, which became fully
integrated within the road directorates. In spite of reorganizations which affected both road
directorates, and introduction of new management methods, the performance remained effective
as the disbursement curve shows. Both directorates were also effective in implementing the
technical assistance components, such as the development of planning tools PMS, BMS, for
financial management planning, and in training directorates' staff.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The project objectives were achieved. All credit conditions were complied with, and the planned
procurement program was implemented, including two added road segments made possible by
advantageous SDR exchange rate. The cooperation between the borrower and the Bank was
productive throughout preparation and implementation of the project.

6. Lessons Learned

The governance structures in BiH and the still somewhat awkward political and administrative
environment, together with the high transaction costs that are engendered, means that only
project-specific lessons are drawn.

Integrated Project Implementation Directorate.         Training of the staff within the integrated
Project Implementation Directorate benefited the entire organization and not only the
implementation unit.      It enabled organization wide familiarization with modern rules for
procurement and disbursement to carry out project operations timely and efficiently. Institutional
strengthening and capacity building needed time and hands on supervision even with well-
motivated staff.

The Road Network Structure needs reassessment. Many roads in BiH that now are main roads
used to be regional roads, and the regional roads used to be local roads, and, consequently, the
characteristics of the classified road network are inadequate. The inference is that maintenance
alone is insufficient to support economic reorientation and growth and improve traffic safety; the
road network structure needs to be reassessed and rebuilt with appropriate standards as the
demand for more transport infrastructure is growing.

The three key entities in traffic accident work are the Road Administration, the Traffic Police,
and the Data Administrator. Seamless cooperation is needed. Because of high level political
backing and media coverage, the Road Administrations and the Traffic Police must employ and
retain well-trained, motivated and skilled staff to work on traffic safety issues and keep their
respective Ministries fully informed of traffic safety issues.


The Traffic Police must be fully involved in traffic safety work. There are about as many
accidents in the urban areas as on the inter-city network, together over 70 % of the total. The
elderly are the most vulnerable group, and the most common cause of collisions is speeding.
Therefore, safety work needs full cooperation of the police and the road administrations, and
needs to be expanded to cover the urban areas. Effective enforcement requires cooperation


                                                 14

between the key entities (identified above), the establishment of a lead agency, and the
preparation of a strategy to guide the comprehensive response involving all stakeholders.

Traffic safety improvements require reliable data. At the start of the project, all data were
sparse with unknown accuracy. Given the unusual governance structure in BiH, a reliable
Accident Data Base needs a collision data administrator at the state level (in the Ministry) whose
responsibility is to restore credibility, accuracy and timeliness of traffic safety data. Because of
confidentiality issues, a data transfer protocol between the Administrator of the accident data
base, Traffic Police, and the Road Administrations must be agreed upon.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
No issues were raised by the Borrower.

(b) Cofinanciers
None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
None




                                                 15

                          Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent-values are affected by dollar
depreciation)

                                  Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest
           Components                                                           Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)       Estimate (USD
                                                             millions)           Appraisal

1. Road maintenance,
rehabilitation, and safety
improvements for the main and              32.13                42.94               134%
regional road network, including
about 280 km of priority roads
2. Institutional strengthening of
the FBHRD and RSRD, including
setting up of road and bridge data           4.30                 6.51              151%
banks, introducing the use of
HDM 4


             Total Baseline Cost           36.43                49.45

Physical Contingencies                       3.28                 0.00              0.00

Price Contingencies                          1.82                 0.00              0.00
              Total Project Costs          41.53                49.45               119%
Project Preparation Fund                     0.00                 0.00               .00
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.00                 0.00               .00
      Total Financing Required             41.53                49.45               119%




(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal Actual/Latest

           Source of Funds               Type of       Estimate        Estimate    Percentage of
                                      Cofinancing        (USD           (USD        Appraisal
                                                       millions)       millions)

Borrower                                             11.53              14.78          128%

International Development
Association (IDA)                                    30.00              34.67          116%

Note: The actual amounts are bigger than the credit amounts in dollars because the currencies
exchange rate fluctuation




                                               16

                               Annex 2. Outputs by Component
                (Note: Actual costs affected by the US$ - SDR exchange rate).

Project Component 1: Road Rehabilitation and Safety US$42.94 million (planned US$36.63
million)
This component covers estimated maintenance and rehabilitation needs on the main and
secondary road network, including upgrading of drainage, identified accident black spots, road
markings, crash barriers and signaling. It includes the improvement of:

    · 247.2 km (230 km planned) of priority road sections in the Federation US$29.44 million
         (planned US$25.37 million), and

    · 299.5 km (290 km planned) of priority road sections in Republika Srpska and
         rehabilitation of lighting in 5 tunnels US$13.50 million (planned US$11.26 million).

This component was implemented as planned and on time. The engineering design followed the
new standards, including material specifications. By visual observation of the road works, quality
is very good, and there were no cost overruns. The tunnel lighting and improvement program
was well executed and improved the traffic conditions in the tunnels. The accident black spot
improvement program and the tunnel lighting program were well received and satisfactory,
although the lack of baseline data related to these investments prevents a quantitative assessment
of the benefits.

Project Component 2: Institutional Strengthening ­ US$6.51 million (US$4.48 million
planned)

The institutional strengthening component aimed at similar activities in both entities. It provided
consultant services for capacity building and institutional strengthening of the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina Road Directorate (FBHRD), and PC `RS Roads'. The detailed output
description of the component, in spite of its similarity in both entities, is done separately for both
entities and follows the format in the PAD.

In the Federation US$4.15 million (US$2.59 million planned) the entire component was
completed satisfactorily, as detailed below:

         (i)     setting up of a road data bank, introducing the use of HDM for setting road
                 maintenance and rehabilitation priorities and annual road works programs. This
                 part of the institutional strengthening component was fully implemented and
                 documented with identical content and road referencing system as in PC;

         (ii)    improved quality control procedures for civil works (completed, reports
                 available);

         (iii)   the use of competitive bidding procedures (completed);

         (iv)    familiarization with modern road maintenance technologies (completed);




                                                  17

         (v)      improved financial management systems. Improved financial management
                  system was implemented, including training;

         (vi)     support for the creation of core environmental capacities, including establishing
                  environmental units in each of the Road Directorates and the review of
                  environmental standards and monitoring pertaining to the road sector.
                  Environmental units and environmental plans were established, including
                  appropriate training;

         (vii)    the training of the FBHRD staff. Training was included in the TA activities; and

         (viii)   one-half of the cost of the audit of the project accounts. The project audits were
                  completed with clean opinions and satisfactory to the Bank.

For Republika Srpska Roads (PC "RS Roads"), formerly Republika Srpska Road Directorate
(RSRD), the planned institutional strengthening US$2.36 (planned US$1.89) was similar to the
institutional strengthening in the Federation and included:

         (i)      assistance in establishing procedures for works supervision;
         (ii)     setting up road and bridge data banks;
         (iii)    training in economic analysis and road management;
         (iv)     pavement condition surveys;
         (v)      support in setting up procurement procedures and units for traffic management
                  and road safety and for environmental management; and
         (vi)     one-half of the cost of audits of the project accounts.

All parts were completed successfully and documented.

Equipment, materials and supplies were also financed under the Institutional Strengthening
Component. The acquisitions included as planned:

    · For FBHRD: office equipment and supplies needed to implement the road data bank, for
         the operation of an adequate financial and planning systems, and vehicles and road
         condition measurement equipment for road works; and.

    · For RSRD: road measurement equipment and related office equipment needed to
         establish the road and bridge data banks.




                                                  18

                        Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                             (including assumptions in the analysis)

The economic analysis was carried with using the Highway Design and Management Model,
Version 4 (HDM4) and used the orthodox engineering-economics method of comparing the
discounted stream of net benefits in the form of reductions in road user costs and road
maintenance, less the investment costs, after the project road improvements, the `do-something'
against a `do-nothing' scenario, the likely situation without the project.

In both cases the annual growth of traffic, given the base traffic counts before and after
completion, was assumed to be 3.5% per annum. The post-case analysis was based on more
accurate traffic data. The road rehabilitation component accounted for 80% of total project costs.
The remaining 20% was allocated to the institutional strengthening of the Entity Road
Directorates and the black spot improvements. No formalized economic analysis was been carried
out for these parts of the project. The benefit-cost analyses after project completion were carried
for a representative sample of projects covering 66% of the project costs. A summary table of
calculations appears below.

The ex-ante EIRR for the project's road rehabilitation component was 26%.             The ex-post
calculations, showing substantial traffic increases, improved road condition and reduced travel
times, resulted in an EIRR of 74%. The economic re-evaluation thus confirms and substantially
exceeds the project benefits anticipated at appraisal.




                                                  19

  Road Rehabilitation Program: Project cost, Base Year and Post-completion Traffic and
                                                ERR

      Road Name                      Base      ERR        2006       ERR        Cost of rehab.
                                     Year      in %       Traffic    in %       or maintenance
                                     Traffic   PAD        AADT       ICR        (KM)
                                     AADT
                   1                     2         4          5         6               7
      Sicki Brod-Simin Han-          7630      20.6       8200       104.6       1,760,143 KM
      Entity Border
      Sicki Brod-Doboj               8520      33.0       6700       86.1        1,594,320 KM
      Lasva-Entity Border            7040      26.7       2900       44.3        2,461,621 KM
      Lasva-Kula*                    13280     29.7       -          -                          -
      Gorica-Neum                    3860      32.1       4719       57.9          799,700 KM
      Posusje-Mostar                 5270      23.4       6400       17.7        1,169,072 KM
      Livno -Posusje                 2410      19.0       2300       42.2        1,779,939 KM
      Strmica-Livno                  790       14.0       1168       11.4        2,555,338 KM
      Biha-Srbljani                  2500      17.4       6200                   1,050,570 KM
      Karuse-Lasva                   7240      27.5       7800       147.8       3,814,795 KM
      Stupska Petlja-Jablanica       7930      31.2       7570       76.1        3,960,170 KM
      Jablanica-Mostar               5810      30.4       6100       131.6         769,111 KM
      Mostar-Doljani                 4230      22.4       4985       85.3          994,825 KM
      Sicki Brod-Loncari             8270      33.2       7732                   1,361,243 KM
      Sicki Brod-Krivajevii          4870      19.9       11.300                 2,794,257 KM
      Krivajevii-Sarajevo            5290      23.6       3700       47.4        2,265,354 KM
      Suica-Tunel Kupres             3100      17.5       1800       40.2        1,375,036 KM
      Donji Vakuf-tunel Kupres       3900      18.7       4200       107.9       1,142,457 KM
      Livno-Tomislavgrad             2500      26.8       2300       42.2          952,974 KM
      Velika Brusnica-Odzak          1940      20.9       950        122.1      915,790.90 KM
      Velika Kladusa -Srbljani       2090      16.5       3960       30.9        1,153,317 KM
      Ustikolina-Gorazde             1500      13.1       3000       34.2        1,069,921 KM
      Biha-Kljuc, section            40.00                1800       83.4        1,031,084 KM
      Biha-Bos.Petrovac
      Karuse-Lasva, subsection       8.100     88.1       7800       147.8       1,298,320 KM
      Maglaj-Zepce-Zenica**
      Donji Vakuf-Turbe-             9.089     33.1       8893       77.3
      Travnik **                                                                 1,063,866 KM
      Averages                                 25.8                  74.5
*Section Lasva-Stupska petlja-Kula was replaced with Biha-Kljuc road, section Biha-Bos.Petrovac.
** These sections were included in procurement plan in 2006 for implementation based on the remaining
   balance of the proceeds of the credit.




                                                  20

   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title               Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                      Specialty
Lending

Cesar Augusto Queiroz    Program Team Leader                     TTL during
                                                                 preparation

Aymeric-Albin Meyers                                             TTL at
                                                                 identification
Bernard Baratz           Lead Environmental Specialist
Ahmet Gokce              Senior Procurement Specialist
Enn Vasur                Transport Economist
Mirjana Karahasanovic    Operations Analyst
Siew Chai Ting           Senior Fin. Management Specialist
Patrizia Poggi           Social Development Specialist
Dominic Haazen           Senior Health Specialist
David Webber             Lead Fin. Management Specialist
Jacques Cellier          Lead Transport Economist                Peer Reviewer

Supervision/ICR
Bernard Baratz           Consultant                        EASTE
Jacques Bure            Sr. Highway Engineer               ECSSD TTL at ICR stage
Ziad Salim El Nakat      E T Consultant                    ECSSD
Vesna Francic            Operations Officer                ECSSD
Ahmet Gokce              Sr Procurement Specialist         ECSPS
Richard Martin Humphreys Sr Transport Economist            ECSSD Former TTL
Nikola Kerleta           Procurement Analyst               ECSPS
Zeynep Lalik Mete        E T Consultant                    ECSPS
Cesar Augusto Queiroz   Consultant                         IEGSG Former TTL




                                         21

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                 14                        90.30
  FY02                                 41                       204.01
  FY03                                   1                        0.27
  FY04                                                            0.01
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
                        Total:         56                       294.59
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                            0.00
  FY02                                                            1.31
  FY03                                 18                        89.10
  FY04                                 23                        70.93
  FY05                                 23                        92.68
  FY06                                 22                        92.73
  FY07                                 12                        52.13
                        Total:         98                       398.88




                                    22

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

          Not applicable.




                23

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

                  Not applicable.




                       24

      Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Road Management and Safety Project was one of the first Bank projects managed by entity
Road Directorates responsible for road management. Project Management Department within RD
FBH and Project Management Team within RD RS were established with overall responsibility
for coordination, planning, procurement, disbursement, auditing, project monitoring and
evaluation, progress implementation reporting and use of the project funds in close cooperation
with their line Ministries. Creating of the PMD/PMT within RDs was very important for
knowledge share, close communication/collaboration between management /technical department
and PMD/PMT staff and achieving common goal. We thought that project preparation and
implementation through responsibilities of the institutions/enterprises, rather than separate PIU, is
really important for capacity building and strengthening of the institutions. Members of the
PMD/PMT have significant experience with previous World Bank supported projects and there
were no big risks during project implementation.

Knowledge and awareness about few important issues (road safety, use of HDM-4 model, FIDIC
contracts, advanced procurement, disbursement) were improved in order to undertake operations
efficiently based on the World Bank and other institutions training programs and on-job training
with consultants. Consultants were also hired when it was needed but only for specialized tasks
(road, bridges and tunnels data base, guidelines for design, construction, maintenance and
supervision) but close cooperation and active participation in the preparation was very important
for institutional strengthening of both JP DCFBH and JP "Putevi RS", such as contractors and
supervisors.

During the project preparation, RD FBH and respective Ministry of Physical Planning and
Environment have no experience with Bank's environmental policies and public consultations
and disclosure with concerned stakeholders, but with assistance of the World Bank team and
employment of the environmental specialist, over time RD FBH, contractors and supervisors
became familiar with all policies and necessary actions regarding environmental issues and the
project was implemented in compliance with the regulations.

Gained knowledge and experience during project preparation and implementation are of
invaluable value for further activities of the company and further projects.

Planning of the content of the project components was appropriate and during implementation
there was only need for reallocation between categories due to the some saving/overspending on
the categories during implementation.

Tailor- made software for financial management system has been procured for recording all
transactions, supporting the preparation of reliable financial statements and monitoring project
implementation. Establishing World bank Regional Processing Centre in Zagreb reduced period
for reconciliation and payments and closer cooperation regarding specific financial and
disbursement issues. The project was completed at the closing date and have not request for any
extension.




                                                 25

Lessons Learned

The most important achievements within RMSP are the following:

        ·       setting up of a road, bridge and tunnel data bank, including pavement condition
                survey;
        ·       raising awareness of the environmental issues and pertaining to the road sector
                and introducing environmental management plan and environmental monitoring
                for road works;
        ·       raising awareness of the road safety issues through campaigns;
        ·       procurement of the vehicle counters, axle weighbridges and roughness
                measurement device; and
        ·       establishing improved and uniform guidelines for design, construction,
                maintenance and supervision in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

Setting up of road, bridge and tunnel data base and training of the RDs staff in the use of HDM-4
enable setting road maintenance and rehabilitation priorities and network analyses important for
preparation of mid-term and long term plans for rehabilitation and/or reconstruction of the core
network in Federation of BIH and Republic of Srpska and enhance efficiency of the road
management.
Establishing improved and uniform guidelines for design, construction, maintenance and
supervision in Bosnia and Herzegovina will enable preparation and implementation of the
projects for road infrastructure in accordance with modern standards and regulations and modern
technologies.




                                                26

     Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None.




                                   27

                        Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Bank Staff Assessments
  - Mission Aide Memoires, and Back to Office Reports--September 2000-2007
  - Project Progress Reports

Other
- Law on Roads (Republic of Srpska), Number: 02-604/95, June 14, 1995 (Official Gazette
  11/95)
- Agreement on Establishment of Bosnia and Herzegovina Public Corporations - Office of the
  High Representative - Initialled in Dayton on November 21, 1995 and signed in Paris on
  December 14, 1995.
- The Phare Multi-Country Road Safety Project, Final Report Volume 2 (main body),
  November 1999.
- Agreement between the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska on
  the Establishment of a Joint Road Infrastructure Public corporation as Part of the
  Transportation Corporation, dated December 14, 1995.          Amendment Number 01 to
  Agreement dated January 16, 2000.
- Press Release, Public Corporation for Road Infrastructure Established, Office of the High
  Representative, March 6, 2000.
- Road User Charges in Bosnia Herzegovina: Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project,
  Final. On behalf of: European Bank for Reconstruction and Development - NEI Transport,
  Rotterdam, May 2000.       In association with:  Danish Road Directorate; IPSA Institute,
  Sarajevo; Institute for Urbanism, Banja Luka
- Draft Federation of BiH Law on Roads, Mostar, July 2000.
- Report - Launching the Bosnia and Herzegovina Road Infrastructure Public Corporation
  (BRIC), Dieter Wrede, Nuernberg, September 2000
- Information on Traffic Accidents (TA) on Magistral Roads (MR), January 2001
- Financial Asset into Magistral Roads in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for period
  1998-2001
- List of Working Organizations that are engaged on Maintenance Works in the Federation of
  Bosnia and Herzegovina
- Report on Status of Roads, Federation Ministry of Traffic and Communications, Federation
  Directorate for Roads, Sarajevo, January 2, 2001
- The Study on The Transport Master Plan in Bosnia and Herzegovian (BiHTMAP), (Final).
  Prepared by: Pacific Consultants International for Japan International Cooperation Agency
  (JICA), March 2001
- Proposal for Road Rehabilitation (Republic of Srpska), April 2001
- The Railway Sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Joint Strategy, Period 2001-2003, Sarajevo,
  April 2001
- Organization of Railways in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Office of the High Representative,
  April 25, 2001




                                             28

- Agenda for International Conference on Railways in Banja Luka, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
  May 4, 2001
- A Long-term Plan of Railways in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Presented by: Dr. Katsuhide
  Nagayama, Team Leader, the JICA Study Team
- Country Report Bosnia and Herzegovina, Road Transport Charges, (Final). On behalf of:
  Phare Multi-Country Transport Programme - NEI Transport, Rotterdam, August 2001
- Traffic Counting in Republic of Srpska, Road Directorate, Banja Luka, September 2001
  (prepared by Mr. Igor Jokanovic)
- Information on Traffic Safety on Roads in the Republic of Srpska (I-Xii 2006.)
- AADT on Roads in the Republic of Sprska 2002-2005




                                          29

                                 16°                                      To Zagreb                                                      18°                    To Osijek
                                                     To Zagreb                      To Zagreb
                                                                                                                 C R O A T I A                                               To Vinkovci                                   Danube

                                                                                                                                                                                     To Osijek

                                        To Glina                                                                            Sava
                                                      Bosanska Novi                            Bosanska
                                                      (Novi Grad)                              Gradiska                                      Bosanski Brod
                                                                                                                                                                          B. Samac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              45°
                                                                                                (Srp. Gradiska)          Derventa            (Srp. Brod)                                                                          To Belgrade
           45°                                                     Prijedor
                                 Cazin                                                                                                                          Modrica       Loncari
                                    Una                                                                                                               Gradacac  
                                                                                                                                              Bosna                                     Brcko
                                Srbljani Bosanska                                                                          Prnjavor                                     Cerik
            Karlovac                      Krupa                                   Banja
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bijeljina
                    To    Bihac´                                                   Luka
                                                     Sanski Most                                                                         Doboj         Gracanica
                                                                                                                                    Karuse                                    Spionica

                                                                                                       Kotor Varos                 Tesanj
                                                                                                                            Teslic´
                                                                                       Vrbas                                                                                               Simin          Sepak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Loznica
                                                                                                                                                    Maglaj  Lukavac                Tuzla   Han         Sapna
                                               Bosanski       Kljuc
                                               Petrovac                                                Skender Vakuf                                      Poljice                    Zivinice
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kalesija

                      CROATIA                                 Kljuc                                                                                 Zavidovici´  Banovici´
                                                             (Ribnik)                                                                                                                               Zvornik
                                                    Drvar               Mrkonjic
                                                                          Grad
                                                                                Jezero                                                                                   Ribnica                    Sakovica´
                                                                                                Jajce                                                                                                                          Drina
                                                                                                                      Travnik                                                  Kladanj
                                                                           Sipovo                      Turbe
                                                                                                                             Zenica                                                                                  Bratunac
                                                                                                                                   Vitez     Lasva                                                       Vlasenica
                                                                                                                                                      Kakanj      Vares             Olovo
                                                                                      Donji Vakuf                           Kaonik                                                                                    Srebrenica

                                       Knin                    Glamoc                                       Bugojno                                      Breza                                                                                44°
                                                                                                                             Fojnica
           44°                                                                                                                                 Visoko                                             Sokolac
                                                                                                                                         Kiseljak               Semizovak                                                               To
                                                                                                 Gornji Vakuf                                                           Sarajevo                                                     Belgrade
                       To                                                                                                             Kresevo                                                                                                 To
                      Zadar                                                     Livno       Suica
                                                                                                                                                          Blazuj                       Pale      Rogatica        Visegrad                   Uzice
                                                                                                           Prozor
                                                                                 Karlov                                                             Tarcin

                                Sibenik                                           Han        Tomislavgrad                                                                                       Gorazde
                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                              Trnovo
                                                                                                                Jablanica                     Konjic



                                                                                                                                                     Neretva                                      Foca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                      Posusje                                                                 Kalinovik          (Srbinje)                              Prijepolje
                                                     Split                                                  Privalj    Siroki
                                                                                                                       Brijeg
                                                                                                          Grude
                                                                                                                          Mostar
                                                                                                                    ^
                                                                                                                   Citluk                              Nevesinje

                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Podgorica
                                                                                                                                                                           Gacko
                                                                                                                              Capljina                                                                       FEDERAL
                                                                                                                                         Stolac                                                                                               43°
                                                                                                    Ploce                                                                                                    REPUBLIC
           43°
                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF YUGOSLAVIA
                                                                                                                                                                  Bileca´
                       A d r i a t i c              S e a

                                                                                                                                                                          Trebinje

                                                                                                                                          Dubrovnik
                                              BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                 Podgorica
                         ROAD SAFETY AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 19°
                                   PROJECT ROADS                                                      DAYTON AGREEMENT LINES

                                   SECOND EMERGENCY TRANSPORT PROGRAM                                 RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                         LUX.    10°                            20°                        30° 50°

                                   EIB ROADS PROJECT                                                  SELECTED CITIES                                                                      CZECH            POLAND                   UKRAINE
                                                                                                                                                                                              REP.
                                   HIGHWAY                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                       GERMANY                      SLOVAK  REP.
                                   MAIN ROADS                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                    FRANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MOLDOVA
                                   REGIONAL ROADS                                                                                                                       SWITZ.          AUSTRIA         HUNGARY

                                                                                                                                                       42°                               SLOVENIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                  CROATIA                  ROMANIA
           42°
                                                                                                                                                                                         Adriatic    BOSNIA AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                     HERZEGOVINA FED. REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF                         Black
                                                                                                                                                                                   ITALY                      YUGOSLAVIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sea                         BULGARIA        Sea

                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                             FYR
                         0           25            50           75                                                                                                                                Area of map
                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                                                   MACEDONIA
AUGUST                                                                    on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                ALBANIA                                IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                  40°                                                                          40°
                                        KILOMETERS                        judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                 Tyrrhenian
                                                                          acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                          Sea                              GREECE      Aegean           30°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sea                  31452
      2001                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TURKEY
                                  16°                                             17°                                                              18°                    10°                                   20°

