                             Document of
                            The World Bank




                                                     Report No: 28934-RO

                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (SCL-43620)

                                ON A

                                LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5 MILLION

                                  TO

                              ROMANIA

                                FOR A

                 CHILD WELFARE REFORM (CWR) PROJECT




                             August 20, 2004




HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR UNIT
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA REGION

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective August 20, 2004)

                                Currency Unit = Romanian Lei
                                         I Lei = US$ 0.00003
                                        US$ 1 = Lei 33,932

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                     July 1   June 30

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANPCA   National Agency for Child Protection and Adoption (Agenta Nacionala Pentru Protectia
        Copilului si Adoptie)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CEB     Council of Europe Development Bank
DCP     Department for Child Protection (Departamentul pentru Protectia Copilului)
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
EU      European Union
GoR     Government of Romania
GSG     General Secretariat of the Government
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDF     Institutional Development Fund
LIL     Learning and Innovation Loan
MIS     Management Information System
ME      Ministry of Education
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MF      Ministry of Finance
MMSSF   Ministry of Labor, Social Solidarity & Family
NGO     Non-governmental Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PHRD    Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
PIM     Project Implementation Manual
PMT     Project Management Team
SA      Special Account
SERA    Solidarity for Abandoned Romanian Children
SDF     Social Development Fund
SPSPCR  Specialized Public Services for the Protection of Children's Rights
        (Serviciul Public Specializat pentru Protectia Dreturilor Copilului)
SSPH    Secretariat of State for Disabled Persons
TA      Technical Assistance
UNICEF  United Nations International Children's Fund
USAID   United States Agency for International Development

                              Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                            Country Director      Anand K. Seth
                              Sector Director     Charles C. Griffin
           Social Protection Sector Manager        Hermann von Gersdorff
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           John Innes

                                          ROMANIA
                                CHILD WELFARE REFORM


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             33
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             40
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             42
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             43
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             45
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                46
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            47
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              48
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            55

Project ID: P055495                                                  Project Name: CHILD WELFARE REFORM
Team Leader: John A. Innes                                           TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: August 24, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: CHILD WELFARE REFORM                                     L/C/TF Number: SCL-43620
   Country/Department: ROMANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (96%); Central government administration
                            (4%)
                  Theme: Social risk reduction (P); Social risk coping (P); Participation and
                            civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/12/1998                                     Effective: 10/28/1998                10/28/1998
     Appraisal: 03/12/1998                                         MTR: 11/01/2004                  11/01/2004
      Approval: 06/25/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 09/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA/DEPARTMENT OF CHILD PROTECTION
                                           AND COUNTY COUNCILS
                      Other Partners:      UNICEF, USAID, EU, NGOs

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Kenneth Lay
Sector Manager:                 Hermann von Gersdorff                          Michal Rutkowski
Team Leader at ICR:             John A. Innes                                  John A. Innes
ICR Primary Author:             John A. Innes


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
        The project development objective was to improve child welfare in Romania through
testing and promoting community-based child welfare approaches as sustainable and
cost-effective alternatives to institutionalized child care and for re-integrating street children in
Bucharest more fully into society.

        As such this was a highly relevant development objective for Romania, well embedded in
the CAS. It later became even more important when the European Union (EU) made Romania's
progress in addressing child welfare (particularly de-institutionalization, prevention of
abandonment) the key Copenhagen criterion for Romania to progress on its EU accession bid.

3.2 Revised Objective:
        There were no formal revisions to the project objective, although the Street Children
Initiative component was modified to cover another 7 large cities in Romania rather than
Bucharest alone, as it became clear that tackling this problem in Bucharest, required interventions
in the largest source cities. This basically demonstrated the strategic importance of the initial
development objective of the CWR project.

3.3 Original Components:
        The CWR project had 3 components as follows, all implemented by the National Agency
for Child Protection and Adoption (ANPCA) and the Specialized Public Services for the
Protection of Children's Rights (SPSPCR) at the Judets (county) level :

Component I -- US$27.0 million -- Community-based Child Welfare Services.

        This component supported the Romanian Government (GoR) in identifying, financing and
monitoring sub-projects targeting prevention of abandonment and institutionalization of children,
de-institutionalization and quality of residential care improvement through alternative
community-based services such as:

               Family counseling and support -- providing advice and support (including
        material support) to families at risk in order to keep them together and this way to prevent
        abandonment and institutionalization of children;

               Parental education -- teaching young parents how to cope with their children,
        helping them to become reliable and good parents, encouraging parent/child bonding as a
        prevention to child abandonment and institutionalization;

               Mother and baby units -- providing temporary shelter for young single mothers
        and their babies in order to promote attachment and support the young mothers by
        providing counseling (including legal advice) and parental education;

               Day care centers -- providing (i) day care for children coming from families at risk
        (e.g. where both parents have to work during the day time and there is no extended family



                                                 - 2 -

        support), (ii) day care and therapeutic assistance for children with special needs (e.g.
        disabled) and parental advice to their families in order to support the family to understand
        better their children and cope with their special situation;

               Small group homes -- providing short/medium term care for children when other
        solutions are not available until a family solution is found; and

       Foster care training services -- recruiting, assessing and training future foster parents.

        Sub-projects were identified through a competitive selection process. Judets authorities
were invited to respond with sub-project proposals submitted to the ANPCA according to the
selection criteria (see Project Appraisal Document -PAD). Financing for sub-projects under the
CWR covered civil works for building small facilities, redesign and refurbishment of newly
identified facilities or (when carefully and fully justified) of the old residential care facilities,
equipment, staff training and various forms of technical assistance (TA) .

Component II -- US$0.7 million -- Street Children Initiative.

        This component had two sub-components, namely:

        a. Centers for Coordination and Information on Street Children (US$0.05 million).
This sub-component financed the ANPCA in conjunction with nongovernmental organizations
(NGO) and the SPSPCRs, in adding six more information and coordination centers at
approximately $8,000 in Timisoara, Iasi, Constanta, Craiova, Brasov, Arad and Cluj. These
centers were based on a model developed in Bucharest with the support of Save the Children
Fund.

        b.   Strengthening Bucharest Street Children Services (US$0.65 million).                This
sub-component supported the ANPCA and the Municipality of Bucharest in working in
partnership with NGOs in identifying, financing and monitoring sub-projects targeting service
provision for street children and reducing their number through family and social re-integration.
Street children focused services included: (i) night and day shelters; (ii) counseling and legal
advice; (iii) learning/ educational facilities; and (iv) medical assistance. This sub-component was
subsequently expanded to cover another 7 large cities in Romania.

Component III -- US$1.8 million -- Institution Building, Monitoring and Evaluation

        This component had four sub-components (most of which were financed by the various
co-financing partners), namely:

        a. Institution Building. This sub-component supported the ANPCA in overseeing the
execution of the project, including monitoring and evaluation of all project activities. For this
purpose the ANPCA assigned existing qualified staff and recruited 5 specialists, for the
management of the reform program: (i) procurement specialist; (ii) accounting specialist; (iii)
architect; (iv) child welfare expert; and (v) monitoring and evaluation specialist. This team



                                                  - 3 -

provided assistance both to the central ANPCA and to the SPSPCRs. The operational costs of
the ANPCA were covered as a central government counterpart contribution.

         b. Training.      The project provided for the training of ANPCA staff in all the areas
identified in the paragraph above, as well as seminars and other training events for the SCSPCR
and other operational staff at the Judets level. Limited study tours abroad on child welfare
management (principally to the USA and Western Europe) for key staff were included, together
with local study tours in Romania to disseminate the best practice from one Judets to another.

         c. Public Awareness Program. The ANPCA implemented a major public awareness
campaign through newspapers, radio and television as part of the prevention strategy;
encouraging families to seek support and alternative services rather than abandoning children in
institutions. The program was also used to inform NGOs and communities about the possibilities
of support through sub-projects under this project and also to educate and re-orient the staff in
those Judets which were less reform-minded.

         d. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). Monitoring and evaluation of all project
activities was supported under this sub-component. A project -specific Management Information
System (MIS) was developed. Other elements of the M&E program included annual technical
audits, financial audits, periodic beneficiary assessments, and Bank supervision. The SPSPCR, as
beneficiaries, were required to provide quarterly project reports to the central ANPCA to
facilitate this process.

3.4 Revised Components:
         There have been no substantive revisions to the project components, with the exception
of expanding the street children initiative to cover another 7 large cities in Romania.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
         This project was not reviewed by QAG at entry, however this ICR assesses quality at
entry as highly satisfactory.      The project had a relatively simple design, with only three
well-defined components, but was both strategic and innovative, being the first of its kind in the
Bank. Utilizing a competitive social fund approach for Components I and II was a powerful
design tool to obtain strong local ownership, sustainability, and avoid picking "winning" Judets on
the basis of favoritism or political criteria.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
         The development outcome of the CWR project is considered to be highly satisfactory -
this has been judged evaluating all Bank reports, documents prepared by the GoR, as well as field
beneficiary visits specific to the ICR (see Annex 8) and external stakeholder analysis workshops
undertaken by an independent consulting firm (Annex 9). At one stage in 2000, the project was
rated as unsatisfactory from a development objective perspective. At that stage, there was an
inadequate budget to implement the LIL, but more seriously the entire child protection system
was in a fiscal crisis. The GoR resolved this problem in 2001, the LIL, and indeed the entire child
protection system functioned again, and the reforms could be implemented. In considering the
rationale for this judgement, it is also important to put the CWR project into context.


                                                  - 4 -

        The initial situation of child protection in Romania in 1996 was a grim one, with
approximately 100,000 children in large state-run institutions, more than half of them having a
disability. The institutions that housed the children were closed to the communities, often in
isolated rural areas, without stimulating the link of the children with the family, and poorly
prepared for providing basic life skills to the children. The accommodation conditions were
rudimentary to a degree that, in some situations, the health and even the life of the children was
endangered. The residential care system provided hospital-like conditions, specially for infants and
disabled children, and without personalized care this aggravated or even caused disabilities.
Foster care existed only as some private initiatives in very few places, and lacked legal status.

        The main reason for these children being in an institution was the poverty of their families,
or other social problems aggravated by poverty. However, the system encouraged the admission
of the children into institutions, and once in there, there was a tendency to keep them indefinitely.
The child welfare system was not designed to provide assistance to a family to overcome its
problems without abandoning the children. The only solution offered to a family in difficulty was
to place the child or the children in an institution, as few, if any support services existed.
Combined with the lack of identification, evaluation, counselling and rehabilitation/treatment
capability, this lead to a situation where many children in difficulty or in a risk situation in their
own families ended up spending their life in badly designed institutions, poorly equipped to
integrate into or become productive members of society, even leaving such institutions at age 18.
The plight of those with disabilities was even worse, as most of them went on into very poor adult
centers for the disabled. The net effect of this was the large incidence of school abandonment,
child abuse and neglect, disabilities and psycho-social disturbances among the children. This
amplified the number of street children and delinquent children. The number of street children,
both runaways or sent by their families on the streets to beg grew during the 1990s, increasing the
risks specific for these children such as drug addiction, health hazards, abuses, delinquency or
exploitation by criminal networks.

        The reform of the child protection system started in 1997 with the implementation of a
new policy of decentralization of the child welfare services with the emphasis on personalized
child care, prevention of abandonment and re-integration of children into their families. However,
the reform process was difficult to implement without a network of community-based child
welfare services, as these were the only means which could identify and provide personalized
intervention for the children in a difficult situation in their families. These services could also
assure the re-integration of the children from large institutions into their families, and supporting
the families after the re-integration. Financing for creating these services was scarce and hence the
solution adopted by the GoR was to apply for external financing for the creation of these services.
Thus the CWR Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was requested by the Ministry of Finance
(MF) in March 1998.

        This was the context in which the CWR project was designed in over the period of
April-June 1998. To achieve these objectives, the CWR project was directed towards three
components dealing with (i) developing community-based, family-type child welfare services for
children in difficulty or in risk situation, (ii) developing shelters and other services for street



                                                 - 5 -

children and (iii) strengthening the capacity of the central and local authorities to design,
implement, coordinate, monitor and evaluate child welfare programs. As seen in the table below,
over the period May 1997 to April 2004, there was a 63% reduction in the number of children in
residential care - as a direct result of the implementation of the CWR and the provision of
alternative services, prevention of abandonment and family re-integration.                           Even this
underestimates the real change, as some 30,000 children are included in 1997 which had been
transferred from Secretary of State for Disabled Persons (SSPH) - and even these children were
now receiving much improved care. The CWR project financed and pioneered the way for this
reform, which has now become deeply embedded in the GoR and now enjoys substantial EU grant
financing - obviating the need for any follow-up Bank loan.

        As noted in both Annex 8, which includes notes on field visits and beneficiary discussions
for a sample of sub-projects financed under the CWR LIL, and a more in-depth set of stakeholder
discussions undertaken in the Judets of Arad, Iasi and Bucharest (Annex 9), both the beneficiary
children and parents have noted the major systemic improvements in the CWR system. Child
welfare has increased enormously. The days of the large inhuman old-style large residential care
institutions has passed. There has been little short of a "revolution" in the CWR system, with the
children the biggest beneficiaries. The reform is being continued by the GoR with the support of
the EU, USAID, CEB, NGOs, and most importantly, its own resources.                            The CWR LIL
demonstrated effective community-based child welfare alternatives, building upon and scaling up
smaller high quality interventions of NGOs, and incorporating these into a systemic reform. The
development impact has thus gone far beyond the original more limited objectives and is thus
rated highly satisfactory. Both beneficiary assessment site visits (section 9) and the stakeholder
investigations by IMAS (section 10) show that despite some weaknesses still inherent in a system
undergoing reform, there have been major improvements in welfare for the children in Romania's
child protection system resulting directly from the implementation of the CWR project.

                 Number of children in residential child protection institutions 1997 to 2004

    Type of Institutions                       Number             Responsibility      in   Number          of   Responsi
                                               of                 May 1997                 children        in   bility
                                               children                                    April 2004**         April
                                               in   May                                                         2004
                                               1997*
1.  Nurseries (Leagane)                           9,309             Ministry of Health       31,406****         SPSCPCR
                                                                           (MH)
2.  Children's homes with/without schools (      35,165           Ministry of Education             0
    Casa de Copii)                                                         (ME)
3.  Center for Minors (Centrul de Primire a        379              Ministry of Labor,              0
    Minorilor)                                                      Family and Social
                                                                         Welfare
4.  Schools for Children With Special            47,107           Ministry of Education            0
    Needs -disabled - (all grades, including                               (ME)
    pre-school)
5.  Other types of institutions (private)***      2,439          Private, under auspices        5,614             Private
                                                                        of ANPCA
    Total                                        98,872                                         37,020
  Sources: *National Commission for Statistics, Census of the Children /young placed in the protection institutions



                                                     - 6 -

 Romania- May 1997.
 ** Source: ANPCA.
 *** Children in private family placement centers (which must meet ANPCA standards).
 **** This includes children with severe disability, not comprised in the 1997 column.




                           Children in different types of care as of March 2004


 I n Romania there are approximately 5,400,000                                                 R E Z I D E N T I A L
 children aged 0 to 18 years old, 1.9% are                                                           C A R E
 registered in the records of the SPSPCRs and                  5.614                               4 3 , 8 5 %
 almost 0.7% are protected in institutions
                                                      CHILDREN IN
                                                      PRIVATE
                                                      INSTITUTIONS                                          31.406
                                                                                 CHILDREN IN
                                                                                 PUBLIC
                                                                                 INSTITUTIONS

                                    CHILDREN AT OTHER
                                    FAMILIES/PERSONS
               33.206

                                                                     CHILDREN IN FOSTER
                                                                     CARE/ PROFESSIONAL
    F A M I L Y T Y P E                                              CAREGIVERS
          C A R E
        5 6 , 1 5 %




                                                                    14.200




4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I. Community-Based Child Welfare Services US$27.0 million                                            HS

           This component is rated highly satisfactory. After surmounting the initial difficulties, the
Project progressed rapidly, with 30 feasibility studies being prepared, submitted and approved for
financing by the Bank during 2000, a further 7 during 2001 and 6 during 2002. The first
sub-project became operational in January 2001 and the completion of civil works, procurement
of goods and commissioning the services continued until 2003. In total, there were 43
sub-projects financed from the Bank loan in 22 counties and sectors of the Bucharest
Municipality, comprising 88 child welfare services as follows:

           The structure of services per type of service is as follows:
     -     10 Family-type placement centers
     -     18 Family counselling and support centers
     -     13 Family reintegration/integration preparation center
     -     8 Mother and baby centers
     -     3 Emergency reception and assessment centers



                                                               - 7 -

    -    8 Day-care centers
    -    4 Day care and recovery centers for children with disabilities
    -    4 Family-type placement centers for children with disabilities
    -    2 Services for the monitoring of the pregnant women with risk of child abandonment
    -    4     Services for the prevention of the abandonment through family planning and
    contraceptive education
    -    4 Service for assistance and support of the children with psycho-social disturbances
    -    9 Service for assistance of the children with discerning capacity in expressing opinion and
    exercising rights
    -    1   Service for assistance and support for young adults under the age of 26 in further
    education

         Alongside these sub-projects, another 32 sub-projects were implemented in 20 counties
and sectors, comprising 67 child welfare services which were developed with CEB co-financing.
A complete list of all the sub-projects financed by both the Bank and the CEB is given in section
10. All sub-projects have been completed and are fully functional.

         All these new services had the characteristics summarized below:

l open to the local communities from the area in which they reside;active services and work
    with other structures from local level (town or commune) as well as with NGOs and local
    population for identifying, evaluating and monitoring situations where children are at risk or in
    difficulty and to intervene as early as possible in order to solve the problems without removing
    the children from their families;
l personalized approach in their intervention, offering to each beneficiary the most suitable
    intervention;
l provide the basis for the intervention of other services, by assessing the situations of the
    children and their families;
l flexible and can cover a large spectrum of problems, and can provide the children in difficulty
    with a wide type of solutions;
l intervention of these services is intended to be limited in duration and to assure long term
    solutions for self-sustainability for the families that benefited from these services, in order to
    eliminate the dependency to the system of the families and children; and
l constitute a filter at the entry in the institution which can prevent many new unjustified
    institutionalizations and a assure the reintegration of children into their families.

         The services developed under the CWR Project allowed the local authorities in several
areas to close down some large old-style institutions and to place the children from these
institutions in their families or in family-type alternative services, either developed under the
project or by other financiers or donors. This is the case especially with some regional institutions
for severely disabled children (former Camin Spital):

l the former Camin Spital and a placement center for children in difficulty in Siret, Suceava
    county, which in 1998 had nearly 500 residents, both children and adults, and no recovery
    facilities. The institutions were closed down and the children were either reintegrated into



                                                  - 8 -

    their families or placed in new services developed under the Project (35 children in Suceava
    county) or by the local authorities in different counties close to the family of the child. All the
    children in the new services have access to recovery facilities and the families that accepted
    the reintegration of their children are supported with day care services; and
l the former Camin Spital Ungureni, Bacau County, which in 1998 had nearly 200 residents,
    both children and adults, and no recovery facilities. The children were placed in new
    specialized services in Bacau County, developed under the CWR Project (58 children) or by
    NGOs, or were transferred to the counties where their families live. All the children in the new
    services have access to recovery facilities and the families that accepted the reintegration of
    their children are supported with day care services.

        The CWR Project also contributed to the decrease of the number of children in other
several large institutions which were after this closed or are aimed to be closed down through
other programs:

l the former Camin Spital Videle, Teleorman county, from where 37 severely disabled children
    were placed in new services developed under the Project and with contribution also from an
    NGO in Calarasi county, where they have their families but where there was no specialized
    service. The children benefit of recovery services also opened to the community part of them
    were reintegrated into their families and are supported by the alternative services. The old
    institution was subsequently closed down; and
l the Camin Spital Babeni, Valcea county, from where 25 children with severe disability were
    placed in a new complex of services in Ramnicu Valcea town and a further 30 children were
    transferred simultaneously in other services developed by an NGO. The old institution is now
    envisaged for closing down under the National Interest Programs of the ANPCA (see section
    10 for a complete list of these National Interest Programs), and the new services created shall
    be also community-based family-type services and shall have recovery capabilities in order to
    prepare and support the reintegration of the children into their families.

Component II. Street Children Initiative US$0.7 million                       HS

        This component is rated highly satisfactory. The first start-up activity was to complete the
6 centers for the coordination of the intervention in the area of street children, located in Iasi,
Timisoara, Constanta, Brasov, Cluj and Bucharest. These centers works with the NGOs and other
authorities, including the police, in order to coordinate the intervention and to avoid overlapping
in this area. The centers are a vital part of a network of providing follow-up services for these
children with the aim of re-integrating them with their families wherever possible. The centers
function in the structure of the SPSPCRs. Some US$50,000 was spent on computer equipment
and office furniture for these centers.

        During the initial phase of the CWR Project implementation, it was recognized that the
need for developing shelters for street children exist not only in Bucharest, where the largest
number of such children usually gather, but also in the key feeder cities. This reflected the fact
that many street children are very mobile, moving from the feeder cities to Bucharest. Many then
move on to the coast (Constanta) in the summer months. Additionally, the problem of street



                                                 - 9 -

children has emerged in regions of the country experiencing severe economic decline (e.g.
Petrosani, in the Jiu Valley). Thus in 1999 Loan Agreement was amended discussed and agreed,
through which the second component of the loan, namely the "Street Children Initiative" was
broadened in order to cover the development of shelters not only in Bucharest, as initially
envisaged, but also in other areas from Romania. The component was started in 2000 but
encountered difficulties in the initial stage, caused by the lack of suitable locations allocated by the
local authorities in Bucharest for the implementation of the sub-projects. Such locations were
identified only in 2001 and in some situations in 2002, including some locations that needed
clarifications of the juridical status before starting the feasibility study.

        Ten sub-projects (night and day shelters for street children) were thus financed by the
Bank in Arad, Iasi, Timisoara, Petrosani, Constanta, Brasov and Bucharest (in Sectors 2, 3, 4 and
5). The total number of places in the overnight places in shelters is 165, out of which 63 are
located in Bucharest. The number of children that benefit from these services is much bigger than
the number of places, since the children may come and go freely during the day.
        The shelters have the following characteristics:

l open services, where the children can come and leave whenever they want, but working with
    the children in order to convince them to stay in the shelter as long as possible and
    subsequently to find a long-term solution for the situation of the child;
l provide safety to the children during their stay in the shelter;
l offer basic medical supervision in the shelter, and direct the children to the hospitals if an
    emergency situation occur;
l maintain a permanent relation with the children on the streets and create a basis for the
    intervention of other authorities or NGOs;
l provide basic educational facilities and act for the re-integration of the children in schools;
    and
l develop relation with the SPSPCRs from other areas in order to provide counseling and
    support to the families of the children and to facilitate their reintegration.

        The response of the street children to this type of service, which is essential in order to
assure the success of the service in achieving its goal, is extremely good. However, these services
and interventions are most effective for the street children that are on the streets for a short period
of time and are not drug addicted. These latter two categories are much more difficult to deal
with.

        Although most of the sub-projects under this component have been extremely effective
and much valued by the beneficiary street children, this is not universally the case. Field visits to
one of the centers in Sacele, Brasov (see Annex 8) did however raise some concerns. This shelter
is located a significant distance from the center of Brasov in a neighboring small town. It does
not appear to be well positioned to attract in and work effectively with such a volatile and difficult
population group.

        In 2002, the CEB carried out a study of the situation of the street children in Romania and
the existing services. The study concluded that the shelters developed under the CWR Project are



                                                   - 10 -

the best solution that can be offered to the street children in order to convince them to leave the
streets and they can offer a basis for a coordinated intervention in this field. Following the study,
the ANPCA prepared a project for the financing and implementation of services specialized on
street children, including the network of shelters, alongside with other services like day care
centers, centers for the elimination of drug addiction, family type homes for children staying for
long periods in the shelters and counseling services. The financing of the project is expected to be
approved by the CEB in the summer of 2004.

Component III. Institution Building, Monitoring and Evaluation             US$1.8 million    S

        This component is rated satisfactory. Very little financing was required from the Bank
loan for these activities as there was significant financing available from the co-financiers,
including NGOs such as SERA. For example, the training of personnel from child welfare
services, included the services developed under the CWR Project, was carried out with USAID
financing. The public awareness campaign was financed by the EU . The CEB was also able to
provide about Euro 1 million in grant TA. Thus under this component was the Bank loan was
used to (i) improve the monitoring and evaluation capacity of the ANPCA, (ii) disseminate good
practice developed under the CWR among the local authorities, NGOs and other entities; and (iii)
procure the computer hardware for the Child Monitoring and Tracking Information System
(CMTIS).

        In order to improve the monitoring capacity of both the central and local authorities, a
joint program was implemented, co-financed from the Bank loan, USAID funds and GoR funds.
The program consisted in developing a national CMTIS designed to obtain in real time
information about the children and services provided to the beneficiaries. The system was a
development of the previous Child Fiche and can track the individual history of each child,
including what services the child has received. The main users of the system are the specialists
from the local authorities level and the managers of the SPSPCRs. The custom-build software was
designed with USAID assistance, who also funded part of the hardware and the initial period of
functioning, and the procurement of the remaining hardware and related operating software was
made from the loan. All the SPSPCRs are connected to the system. The cost for this connectivity
are financed in this moment from their budgets in most situations, as the initial period when the
connectivity was financed by USAID expired in 2003. The system was designed as a flexible one
and can cope with the foreseen changes in the legislative and institutional framework that is
expected to occur in the future, as well as being opened to the connection of new users to the
system (like town level local authorities, NGOs and other). The system was also designed to be
developed on a step-by-step procedure, in order to include in the future other modules that are
believed to be necessary, like the number and structure of personnel in child welfare, a family
module for use in the coordination of assistance received from different agencies and other. A
continuation of the USAID financing for the introduction of the personnel module is under
implementation.

        The development of the CMTIS has been quite difficult and taken longer than expected.
A second Loan extension of three months (until September 30, 2003) was made in order to
provide additional time for the acquisition of the computer hardware under the loan given the



                                                - 11 -

delays in defining the system and hence the hard ware specifications. The hardware was all
procured and installed however.

        The dissemination of good practice developed under the CWR Project among the local
authorities, NGOs and other entities was done through the multiplication of a video material with
eight short films and a presentation made by a UNICEF representative. The activity used the same
material that was used for the abroad dissemination of Romanian good practice. The material was
used at both central and local level in workshops and conferences and distributed to mass media.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
        The institutional impact of the CWR Project has been considerable. This evaluation takes
account of institutional development from three perspectives, namely, (a) central government (the
ANPCA), (b) the Judets SPSPCRs, and (c) NGOs.

        (a) ANPCA: The implementation of the CWR project provided the ANPCA staff with
the opportunity to develop many skills in project management, procurement, implementation and
financial management. Most of the PMT staff are now integrated in the ANPCA structures. The
CMTIS is a vital tool for the ongoing management of the ANPCA. Much more important than
this however, the type of services developed under the CWR Project form the core and provide
models for a broader range of client-friendly modern social services which the GoR and the
MMSSF (as the responsible ministry) will build upon and replicate.

        (b) Judets and SPSPCRs:             It has been at the Judets level (particularly within the
SPSPCRs) that the project has made the biggest impact. The last 6 years has seen something of
almost a revolution in the way in which the SPSPCRs have functioned, embraced CWR,
developed new services and changed their attitudes and behaviors.

        (c) NGOs: The CWR project was able to incorporate a variety of NGOs including SERA
in helping to develop the implementation capacity of the ANPCA. More importantly however,
the CWR project has facilitated building up direct operational relationships at the Judets level with
many SPSPCRs in terms of service delivery and shared responsibility.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
        There were three main sets of issues outside of government control: (i) macroeconomic
developments; (ii) political dimensions of EU accession; and (iii) behavioral attitudes of the
beneficiaries, service providers and the general population.

        (i) Macroeconomic Conditions:              Throughout the period of project implementation,



                                                     - 12 -

Romania was in the process of implementing a number of macro programs supported by the IMF
(and the Bank) aimed at stabilizing the economy (particularly reducing the inflation rate) A key
concern here was reducing the public sector deficit (to below 3% of GNP). In 1999 and 2000 in
particular, harsh budget reductions had to be made at the same time as responsibility for child
welfare was transferred to the Judets (but without the requisite budgetary resources also being
transferred). This situation was only remedied by the GoR in 2001, by which time, advances in
CWR in general, and the project in particular, had been undermined by inadequate financing in the
system as a whole. The situation became so bad in late 1999 and early 2000, that the EU
provided additional recurrent cost support to the old large-style residential institutions for food
and heat to prevent serious negative human welfare outcomes. Whilst necessary from a welfare
perspective, this support did nothing to advance CWR. Since 2001, economic growth and the
overall budgetary situation have been improving. Child welfare now has such a high priority in
Romania that the Judets spend between 15-30 percent of their budget in this field, reflecting also
the political imperatives as reflected in (ii) below.

        (ii) Political Dimensions of EU Accession: When from 2000 onwards, the EU gave
increasing importance to addressing CWR as an EU accession (Copenhagen criterion) issue,
CWR gained very high visibility and attention of senior policy-makers. This gave a major fillip to
the ANPCA and Judets/SPSPCRs in promoting the project and driving for real results.

        (iii) Behavioral Attitudes: A large part of CWR is changing behavior of: beneficiaries
(and potential beneficiaries) so that they do not abandon children, or will accept them back into
the family; service providers, that they will provide better more child-friendly services to children
in their care; and the general population, that they are prepared to see institutionalized children,
street children, and disabled children integrated back into the community.           Such behavioral
changes, which were one of the key objectives of the public information campaigns, counselling
sub-projects and staff training, are very difficult to control and usually take persistent efforts over
an extended period to show results. It is testimony to the effectiveness of the CWR in Romania
that these changes have really started to occur. However, in the initial stages of implementation
of the CWR these environmental factors were less conducive to the reform.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
        The initial implementation of the CWR Project was delayed due to:

l Lack of capacity of local authorities in managing and implementing projects initially (this
    ability grew, and was indeed facilitated by the project itself, so that in the latter years
    sub-projects were implemented very smoothly);
l Lack of expertise of local authorities in designing community-based, family-type child
    welfare services, alternative to the old residential care system (the PMT had to work hard at
    this initially, but once understanding grew, the Judets/SPSPCRs internalized the reform, took
    ownership, and implementation accelerated);
l Limited capacity of NGOs to support local authorities in designing and implementing such
    services (although many of the services developed under the CWR project were themselves
    based upon NGO activities, and a number of strong NGOs were partners in the project, in
    many parts of the country there were few effective NGOs in CWR which could help the



                                                    - 13 -

    Judets/SPSPCRs); and
l Frequent changes in the organization and subordination of the executing agency at
    central level, mainly at the end of 1999 and beginning of 2000, caused disruption in activities.
    Fortunately the main structure of the ANPCA has been relatively stable since 2001, although
    it was brought under the Ministry of Labor, Family and Social Welfare (MMSSF) in 2003.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
        Most of the important factors affecting project performance have been discussed above.
However, there are some factors which can be attributed to the ANPCA itself:
l Lack of specialized personnel in the ANPCA with expertise in project management,
    financial management and procurement, making difficult for the project team to identify such
    staff and causing to assign more assignments to existing staff;
l Large number of donors and co-financiers, which resulted in some difficulties in
    coordinating their interventions - and required a variety of different reporting arrangements
    which the PMT could have addressed more assertively;
l Inefficient monitoring system at national level - implementation of the MIS and child
    tracking system turned out to be more difficult than originally envisaged and thus for a
    long-time, the ANPCA did not have a robust and efficient MIS; and
l Frequent changes of the legislative framework in fields like procurement and financial
    management within the ANPCA hampered the implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
        The total cost of the project was estimated at US$29.6 million in the PAD, as of May
2004, total expenditures amounted to US$35.4 million, not including additional EU funds
amounting to Euro 19 million which started to arrive in early 2003 and followed the CWR
framework, but were managed by the EU (see Annex 3). The increased expenditures were driven
by the additional availability of grant resources from bilaterals such as USAID, NGOs and the
GoR own resources reflecting the growing commitment to dealing with issues of CWR and
de-institutionalization and positive impact of the initial sub-projects financed under the CWR LIL,
which encouraged additional donor grant financing to be made available. Thus, there were no
significant problems with co-financiers funds. In 1999 and 2000, as discussed before, there were
significant problems with aggregate availability of GoR budgetary resources which pushed the
child welfare system into a financial crisis, but from 2001 onwards this problem was fully
resolved.

        All of the activities envisaged under the CWR LIL were accomplished, moreover under
budget. The costs of sub-projects under Components I and II came out at some 20-25% below
estimates, upon bidding, particularly in the earlier years of execution when the economy was in
recession and contractors bid in aggressive manner to win contracts. This enabled about 15%
more sub-projects to be implemented CWR LIL than originally anticipated. Given the strong
availability of grant co-financing for Component III, especially for TA, the resources of the Bank
LIL could be re-directed to procure vital computer equipment for the CMTIS in an amount of
US$300,000. Taking all this into consideration, it was thus able to complete more activities under
the project than initially envisaged, with a final saving of US$340,000 which was cancelled from
the loan upon closure. Thus all activities in aggregate had been completed 7% under budget in


                                                    - 14 -

terms of the LIL proceeds.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
         The sustainability of the CWR sub-projects and other activities is rated likely. This
reflects: (i) the demonstrated positive impact to the Judets/SPSPCRs of the sub-projects
concerned in advancing CWR (including re-integration of institutionalized children, prevention of
abandonment); (ii) the high-levels of political support within the GoR to maintain momentum on
the CWR both from a human welfare perspective and to ensure compliance with the Copenhagen
criteria for EU accession; and (iii) the fact that these alternative services are 50% cheaper than the
old-style residential institutions (see Annex 1), thus there is a clear fiscal advantage to the Judets
administration to move in this direction. Another key factor, is that once a large institution is
closed-down, the staff re-assigned or made redundant, the children re-integrated with their family
or placed in a more child-friendly environment, it is in fact very difficult to reverse the reform
process.

         The reduced budgetary costs of community-based alternative child care is very important.
The old large residential style institutions had very high fixed costs, with large numbers of staff
working on a shift basis. The staffing norms had been established during the communist era.
Usually the staff to child ratio slightly exceeded 1:1. Moreover, heating, food and maintenance
costs for these large institutions were considerable. Essentially the GoR became responsible for
the entire costs of child upbringing for children in its care, the families concerned having
externalized these costs to the state. Family re-integration clearly represents, and prevention
measures, the lowest cost at less than 10% of the costs of institutional care. Foster care costs
about 40-50%. Even small group homes have lower costs as they are less staff intensive (with
children themselves participating in their own group care) and with lower overhead costs. Such
facilities have unit costs per child around 45-70% of the large residential institutions.

         The IMAS study (Annex 9) does however show that some of the staff as the local
(Judets/SPSPCR level) worry about the fiscal sustainability of the services created. There might
be merit in these concerns in a limited number of cases, such as some mother and baby centers
which have low utilization rates and relatively high costs per beneficiary. However, in general this
is not the case. Moreover, staff at the local level may not fully perceive the big picture issues such
as the strong political commitment at the central level in order to maintain the EU accession
process, and the strong welfare commitment by most of the Judets presidents and councils.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
         One of the very good things about the design of this CWR Project, was that from the
beginning the project supported a government program, a reform initiative of the government
itself. All Judets submitted their own sub-projects, committing themselves to finance 10% of the
capital costs and the entire running costs. Both the community-based child welfare services and
street children initiative sub-projects (which followed the same procedures and requirements) thus
form the core of the modernized reformed SPSPCRs at the Judets level. Moreover, as these are
de facto the first modern social services to exist at scale at the Judets level, they form the core for
the development of broader social services being developed by the GoR with the support of the



                                                  - 15 -

EU and the Bank (the latter through the ongoing Social Sector Development Project). The
recurrent costs of all of the sub-projects completed under the CWR LIL are being financed out of
the regular Judets budgets through the SPSPCRs. This indeed was a design requirement, no
sub-project was even financed without such a guarantee of continued Judets financing.

        The Project Management Team was always fully integrated into the ANPCA (it was never
an independent PIU or PCU) and the staff have continued in the ANPCA. The MIS (and child
tracking system) developed under the project is the core management tool of the ANPCA and all
the Judets/SPSPCRs in the country and so by definition, and from the very beginning, was fully
incorporated into the regular operations of the system.

        Although financing from the CWR LIL has finished, many other co-financing partners are
still continuing their support to the overall CWR program. The CEB loan will close soon, but an
additional loan will further the program for street children. The EU as stated previously is making
substantial additional grant support available to strengthen and expand the network of
community-based child welfare services.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
        A small but dedicated Bank team designed and took the project to the Board in only three
months at a cost of only US$50,000 of Bank budget funding. This process was greatly facilitated
by some preceding Bank sector work and the full utilization of a US$500,000 PHRD grant which
was also used to help launch project implementation. The counterparts in the Department of
Child Protection (later this was renamed the ANPCA) were also dedicated and committed and
thus were able to facilitate preparation. The CWR project was specifically requested by the GoR
in order to help meet the cofinancing requirements of the CEB loan. Bank performance in
preparation was considered to be highly satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
     The Bank supervised the CWR more intensely initially due to the complex policy issues
involved and the need to work closely with the /ANPCA to prepare procedures and to help train
Judets administrations in their role in project implementation. Much of this work was undertaken
by a Romanian child welfare expert who was resident in the Bank's Bucharest field office at that
time.    Intensive supervision was also required in the period of 1999 and 2000 during the
budgetary crisis within the child welfare system, when there was a real risk that the planned
reforms and CWR sub-projects could be aborted. From 2001, onwards Bank supervision was
able to shift in two directions: (i) supporting CWR efforts at a higher policy level in support of
EU accession, including participation in the High-Level CWR Policy Group and the donor
working group; and (ii) through on-site visits to individual sub-projects as they became
completed.     The client always fully appreciated the policy, technical and practical project
implementation advice of the Bank. Bank performance in supervision was considered to be
satisfactory.

     Special funding was obtained from the President's Contingency Fund (as part of a children's
initiative) in order to complete 8 twenty-minute documentary films on specific services developed


                                                 - 16 -

under the CWR project to disseminate positive approaches and results.            The professionally
developed videos have been used both for training purposes (child welfare practitioners in
Romania, Bulgaria and elsewhere) as well as for public information (TV broadcasting to a general
public audience, and distribution to all of Romania's embassies. The videos were translated into
English, Bulgarian, Russian and Turkish from the Romanian originals, and have had a significant
impact in some of these countries in terms of helping them in CWR.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    The overall Bank performance is considered by the client and other partners to be fully
satisfactory. A strong teamwork was developed between the Bank and ANPCA teams in order to
push to get the highly satisfactory outcomes. Moreover, the combination of the preparatory
analytical work, intense dialogue during project design, and the ongoing supervision permitted the
Bank to be heavily involved in CWR policy issues over the period 1997-2003. This provided a
place at the table for the Bank to be influential in an important area of social welfare, which also
became crucial as the key Copenhagen criterion for Romania to meet on its EU accession
trajectory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    The DCP was fully engaged in the preparation, and prepared all the necessary documents in
timely and adequate manner. The MoF strongly supported the CWR as it helped to provide
co-financing for the CEB loan and were thus very supportive. All documents and necessary
materials were furnished promptly, and thus it was possible to prepare the CWR project in only 3
months at an extremely low Bank budget cost of US$50,000.           The CEB was also involved in
project preparation and worked in a highly collaborative manner with both the Bank and the
ANPCA.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    As discussed previously, initial project start-up was slow due to internal problems within the
General Secretariat of the Government (GSG). Procurement clearances within the government
became highly problematic, and thus progress was undermined. In 1999 and 2000, the ANPCA
focused its attention on dealing with all the problems of the child welfare system brought about by
the budgetary crisis and project implementation thus suffered. Under extremely strong pressure
from the international community, especially the EU and the Bank, the GoR resolved this problem
in the 2001 budget year, with substantially increased centralized funding to support the child
welfare system at the Judets level.

    Under the even stronger pressure to resolve the problem of Romania's child welfare system in
order to meet the Copenhagen criteria for Romania's desired EU accession, CWR enjoyed
high-level support from the GoR. Funding shortages were never again a problem. The CWR
project included high-level attention, even being recognized by the Prime Minister, Adrian
Nastase, as contributing significantly towards this goal.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
    The DCP (since 2001 ANPCA) at all times sought to implement the project effectively.
However their capacity was sometimes compromised by external events including the budgetary
crisis in the system in 1999 and 2000. The DCP established a Project Management Team (PMT)


                                                - 17 -

of experts in child welfare, social services, civil engineer, financial management and procurement -
all of whom had terms of reference and CVs satisfactory to the Bank. However, despite provision
in the CWR loan, none of the PMT members were ever financed from the loan - they were either
financed by co-financing partners (including NGOs) or from the ANPCA's own budget. The
PMT and ANPCA demonstrated that they were a highly effective implementation agency.

    However, the success of the CWR Project has as much do with the effective implementation
by the Judets in general, and the SPSPCRs in particular. As the CWR project was designed
around a competitive social fund concept, there was high ownership at the local level of any
selected sub-project - after all it was the Judets/SPSPCR which designed and submitted the
sub-project according to the agreed menu. This was one of the key ingredients of success.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    Starting unsatisfactory, from 2001 onwards, the overall borrower performance became
exemplary (highly satisfactory). However, despite this exemplary performance in the last 2.5
years, two loan extensions were required and the project was completed 15 months after the
initial closing date. It was never possible to catch up with the setbacks engendered by the
budgetary difficulties in 1999 and 2000. Thus despite highly satisfactory performance over the
period 2001-2003, in the light of the earlier delays and concomitant extensions, overall
implementation should be rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

        As a LIL on an innovative topic such as CWR, which enjoyed very high political visibility,
a number of important lessons can be learnt:

l Community-based child welfare services really work: The sub-projects supported under
    the CWR project made a very substantial impact on the thinking of what is feasible, which
    once having been proven to work, have formed the basis for subsequent scaling-up by both
    the EU and Government's own resources. Prior to the LIL, there was great skepticism as to
    whether the NGO activities undertaken could make any substantive contribution to dealing
    with institutionalized children on a large (national) scale rather than a purely local NGO scale.
    The number and diversification of alternative services to child institutionalization and reducing
    the number of children in big placement centers are the most visible achievements of the
    reform (IMAS Assessment). The CWR LIL has demonstrated that community-based CWR
    activities act as a cost-effective alternative to institutionalization and can be scaled-up to make
    a substantial national contribution.       In some specialized cases however, as the IMAS
    Assessment shows, beneficiaries of the services, such as 18 year-olds about to leave old style
    institutions were somewhat sceptical. These beneficiaries were satisfied with the improved
    actual living standards, but lacked trust in their own capacity to overcome the normal
    obstacles of adult life (like getting a job, superior education, housing etc). Helping youth
    leaving such institutions integrate into a regular productive life has proven to be difficult in all
    countries facing such problems and is indeed one of the many welfare reasons for avoiding and
    preventing institutionalization.

l Child welfare services require addressing the whole needs of the family and form the




                                                  - 18 -

  basis in Romania for the development of modern social services: Prevention services and
  reintegration services need to deal with the whole issues of the family, and not just the specific
  issues of the particular child concerned if they are to be effective. The types of services
  developed under the CWR have thus formed the foundation for modern social services in
  Romania, almost completely lacking hitherto. Once again the development impact has gone
  well beyond that initially envisaged.

l A LIL can be a very effective instrument: There have been questions in the Bank as to
  whether A LIL was a very highly effective instrument in scaling-up what were incipient
  positive instruments from a variety of NGO interventions over a number of years. The CWR
  was able to pick up on the best of these interventions, replicate and scale them-up for a larger
  impact. The CWR sub-projects in turn became demonstration models for the much larger
  subsequent EU grant financing which continued and scaled up even further the impact of the
  Bank's CWR project.

l The Bank can provide real value-added in an area such as CWR: The Romania CWR
  project was the first Bank intervention in the field of CWR in ECA. Prior nobody had
  believed that the Bank had any real contribution to make in this area. The success of the
  CWR project demonstrates that when Bank management takes the bold step to embark in a
  new area, hires appropriate specialized staff, and combines this with the inherent managerial
  and economic management experience of the Bank, positive results and real value-added will
  ensue.

l The Bank can leverage/broker impact with a variety of donor parties:             The success of
  the CWR project was in large part due to the collaborative arrangements between the parties
  concerned. In the first instance, the Bank was able to establish strong relationships with
  NGOs which had been effective in CWR in Romania, subsequently demonstrating and
  brokering these approaches with the much larger EU support. On the negative side, some
  beneficiaries (IMAS fieldwork), believed that it was only international intervention that
  managed to effect any positive change in CWR, and that this might be unsustainable. This is
  however countered by the views of both the ANPCA and the Judets administrations which
  declare that there is no going back to the past, and that they will make it a priority to sustain
  these services.

l Lending buys a seat at the table for policy dialogue:              The Bank was able to be
  continuously involved in issues of CWR in the High-level Policy Group, the CWR Executive
  Committee and make worthwhile contributions to the CWR over the life of the project 
  going far beyond the initial project objectives as the CWR project bought the Bank a seat at
  the policy table.

l High profile political focus can magnify action: When the Bank first engaged in CWR in
  Romania, there was international media attention on the plight of institutionalized children,
  which gave an initial external impetus to the reforms. However, from 2000 onwards, the
  whole CWR received a major political boost as a result of the EU making dealing with the
  problem of institutionalized, including prevention, Romania's premier Copenhagen criterion



                                              - 19 -

    requirement.

l Competitive grant-making approach provides incentives for the local level to implement
    national policy: The CWR project embodied a social fund approach of competitive grant
    making, rather than choosing particular Judets based on need or political lobbying. Thus the
    CWR project was able to provide strong incentives to bring the Judets into line with national
    policy. Moreover, many of the most successful Judets were not those initially thought of as
    being in the vanguard of the reform (e.g. Teleorman, Alba, Mehedinti, Caras-Severin).

l It is easier to complete civil works than to change mind-sets: Civil works and delivery of
    equipment for facilities constructed under the CWR were relatively easy to undertake.
    However, as the IMAS Assessment notes, changing the mind-sets of service delivery staff is
    more difficult.    Although the need for professional employees is still high, the level of
    competence of the people working with assisted children improved in the last years. With the
    exception of foster-carers, most of the new staff were young  it proved much more difficult
    to retrain and convert older staff who had worked in the old-style institutions for most of their
    working life. Such staff either retired, moved elsewhere in the labor market, or some 35%
    became foster-carers.

l Next Steps in CWR: As the IMAS Assessment notes, the next steps of the reform should
    focus according on the following main issues:
    l reinforcing the achievements of the reform improving the quality of new created
         services; training personnel; developing evaluation standards and strengthening
         monitoring thereof;
    l developing new specialized services for categories of children and families who were not
         adequately covered yet e.g. special educational programs for children with severe
         stability, opportunities for children who exit the system after 18 years old, prevention
         programs addressed to families in distress, more on prevention of child abuse;
    l implementing communication campaigns, information of potential beneficiaries of the
         services, public dissemination of the results of the CWR system transformations;involving
         the community more effectively in dealing with the problems that cause children
         abandonment or other risk situations for the child; and refining legislative framework and
         simplifying legal procedures.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                   Ministry of Labor, Social Solidarity and Family (MMSSF)
               National Authority for Child Protection and Adoption (ANPCA)


                                 Romania Child Welfare Reform
                                          Project 4362-RO
                                   Final Project Evaluation Report
                                            June 15, 2004




                                                 - 20 -

         Project Objectives: The project was intended to support the Romanian Government
specialized agency for the protection of child in reforming the child-care and the child protection
system, through reducing the flow of children into institutions, improving the quality of care for
institutionalized children and the de-institutionalization of children through alternative
community-based services. It also focused on street children who are a group particularly at risk.

         As mentioned in the Loan Agreement, the objective of the Child Welfare Reform Project
was to improve child welfare in Romania through testing and promoting:
       l community-based child welfare approaches as sustainable and cost-effective
            alternatives to institutionalized child care, and
       l approaches to re-integrate street children into society.


         Implementation: To achieve these objectives, the implementation effort was directed
towards three components dealing with developing community-based, family-type child welfare
services for children in difficulty or in a risk situation, developing shelters and other services for
street children and strengthening the capacity of the central and local authorities to design,
implement, coordinate, monitor and evaluate child welfare programs.

         Changes During Implementation: During the initial phase of the Project, it was found
that the need for developing shelters for street children exist not only in Bucharest, where the
largest number of such children usually gather, but also in other areas. This was due mainly to the
migration of the street children during the summer months and to the changes in the economic
situation of certain areas where many industries were closed down and the number of street
children increased. In 1999, an amendment to the Loan Agreement was discussed and agreed,
through which the second component of the loan, namely the "Street Children Initiative" was
broadened in order to cover the development of shelters not only in Bucharest, as initially
envisaged, but also in other areas from Romania.

         The initial activities of the Project comprised the establishment of the Project Coordination
Team (1998) and elaboration of the Project Implementation Manual. The initial selection of
projects was carried out towards the end of 1998 and the preparation of the first feasibility studies
started in the spring 1999.

The start of the Project was rather slow due to issues like:
       l Lack of expertise and capacity of local authorities in managing and implementing
            projects;
       l Lack of expertise of local authorities in designing community-based, family-type child
            welfare services, alternative to the old residential care system; also lack of capacity of
            NGOs to support local authorities in designing and implementing such services;
       l Lack of funds at the levels of central and local authorities during the years 1999 and
            2000, as a result of both the de-centralization of the child welfare and changes in the
            legislation of the public local finances;
       l Major modifications in the structure of the old-type institutions placed under the
            authority of the SPSPCRs, caused by the overtaking from other ministries of new
            institutions for medium and severely disabled children, most of which needed



                                                  - 21 -

             emergency intervention. This changed the priorities of the local authorities several
             times during the years 1999, 2000 and even 2001;
       l Frequent changes in the organization and subordination of the executing agency at
             central level, mainly at the end of 1999 and beginning of 2000;
       l Lack of specialized personnel with expertise in project management, financial
             management and procurement, making difficult for the project team to identify such
             staff and causing to assign more assignments to existing staff;
       l The big number of donors and the difficulties in coordinating their intervention;
       l Lack of an efficient monitoring system at national level; and
       l Frequent changes of the legislative framework in fields like procurement and financial,
             which hampered the implementation.

         The lack of financial sources of the local authorities, responsible for financing this stage of
the subprojects, delayed the completion of these studies. The feasibility studies started to be
submitted to the Bank from the spring of 2000 and the first subprojects were started during the
summer of 2000.

         Development of community-based child welfare services: After surmounting the initial
difficulties, the Project progressed rapidly, with 30 feasibility studies being prepared, submitted
and approved for financing by the Bank during 2000, a further 7 during 2001 and 6 during 2002.
The first subproject became operational in January 2001 and the completion of civil works,
procurement of goods and commissioning the services continued until 2003. In total, there were
43 subprojects co-financed from the Bank's loan in 22 counties and sectors of the Bucharest
Municipality, out of the 47 counties and sectors from Romania, comprising 88 child welfare
services.

         Although this was not mentioned as one of the objectives of the Project for a short period
of time, but can be deduced from the general scope of the Project, the services developed under
the Project allowed the local authorities in several areas to close down some large old-style
institutions and to place the children from these institutions in their families or in family-type
alternative services, either developed under the project or by other financiers or donors. This is
the case especially with some regional institutions for severely disabled children (former Camin
Spital), like:

       l the former Camin Spital and a placement center for children in difficulty in Siret,
             Suceava county, which in 1998 had nearly 500 residents, both children and adults, and
             no recovery facilities. The institutions were closed down and the children were either
             reintegrated into their families or placed in new services developed under the Project
             (35 children in Suceava county) or by the local authorities in different counties close to
             the family of the child. All the children in the new services have access to recovery
             facilities and the families that accepted the reintegration of their children are supported
             with day care services; and
       l the former Camin Spital Ungureni, Bacau County, which in 1998 had nearly 200
             residents, both children and adults, and no recovery facilities. The children were placed
             in new specialized services in Bacau County, developed under the Project (58



                                                  - 22 -

            children) or by NGOs, or were transferred to the counties where their families live. All
            the children in the new services have access to recovery facilities and the families that
            accepted the reintegration of their children are supported with day care services;

The Project also contributed to the decrease of the number of children in other several large
institutions which were after this closed or are aimed to be closed down through other program:

       l the former Camin Spital Videle, Teleorman county, from where 37 severely disabled
            children were placed in new services developed under the Project and with
            contribution also from an NGO in Calarasi county, where they have their families but
            where there was no specialized service. The children benefit of recovery services also
            opened to the community part of them were reintegrated into their families and are
            supported by the alternative services. The old institution was subsequently closed
            down; and
       l the Camin Spital Babeni, Valcea county, from where 25 children with severe disability
            were placed in a new complex of services in Ramnicu Valcea town and a further 30
            children were transferred simultaneously in other services developed by an NGO. The
            old institution is now envisaged for closing down under the National Interest Programs
            of the National Authority for Child Protection and Adoption, and the new services
            created shall be also community-based family-type services and shall have recovery
            capabilities in order to prepare and support the reintegration of the children into their
            families.

These services have some characteristics as mentioned below:

       l they are opened to the local communities from the area in which they reside;
       l they are active services and work with other structures from local level (town or
            commune) as well as with NGOs and local population for identifying, evaluating and
            monitoring situations where children are at risk or in difficulty and to intervene as early
            as possible in order to solve the problems without removing the children from their
            families;
       l they have a personalized approach in their intervention, offering to each beneficiary the
            most suitable intervention;
       l they provide the basis for the intervention of other services, by assessing the situations
            of the children and their families;
       l they are flexible and can cover a large spectrum of problems, and can provide the
            children in difficulty with a wide type of solutions;
       l the intervention of these services is intended to be limited in time and to assure long
            term solutions for self-sustainability for the families that benefited from these services,
            in order to eliminate the dependency to the system of the families and children; and
       l they constitute a filter at the entry in the institution which can prevent many new
            unjustified institutionalizations and a assure the reintegration of children into their
            families.

        All the services are included in the organizational charts of the county or sector SPSPCR,



                                                 - 23 -

which allocate them the budgetary resources for their functioning. The financing of the services is
assured from the budgets of the local authorities (county council or local council in the Bucharest
Municipality).

        Street children Initiative:       The component was started in 2000 but encountered
difficulties in the initial stage, caused by the lack of suitable locations allocated by the local
authorities in Bucharest for the implementation of the subprojects. Such locations were identified
only in 2001 and in some situations in 2002, including some locations that needed clarifications of
the juridical status before starting the feasibility study. The first feasibility studies were elaborated
in 2001, with a further 5 in 2002. There were 10 sub-projects co-financed from the Bank loan in
10 counties and sectors of the Bucharest Municipality, comprising 10 child welfare services (night
and day shelters for street children).

        In 2002 the CEB carried out a study of the situation of the street children in Romania and
the existing services. The study concluded that the shelters developed under the CWR Project are
the best solution that can be offered to the street children in order to convince them to leave the
streets and they can offer a basis for a coordinated intervention in this field. Following the study,
the ANPCA prepared a project for the financing and implementation of services specialized on
street children, including the network of shelters, alongside with other services like day care
centers for the elimination of drug addiction, family type homes for children staying for long
periods in the shelters and counseling services. The financing of the project is expected to be
approved by the CEB in the summer of 2004.

The shelters have the following characteristics:

       l are opened services, where the children can come and leave whenever they want, but
            working with the children in order to convince them to stay in the shelter as long as
            possible and subsequently to find a long-term solution for the situation of the child;
       l offer safety to the children during their stay in the shelter;
       l offer basic medical supervision in the shelter, and direct the children to the hospitals if
            an emergency situation occur;
       l keep a permanent relation with the children on the streets and create a basis for the
            intervention of other authorities or NGOs;
       l maintain basic educational facilities and act for the reintegration of the children in
            schools; and
       l maintain the relation with the specialized child protection services from other areas in
            order to provide counseling and support to the families of the children and to facilitate
            their reintegration.

        The response of the street children to this type of service, which is essential in order to
assure the success of the service in achieving its goal is very good, mainly among the street
children that are on the streets for a short period of time and are not drug addicted

        Alongside the shelters there were 6 centers for the coordination of the intervention in the
area of street children, located in Iasi, Timisoara, Constanta, Brasov, Cluj and Bucharest. These



                                                   - 24 -

centers works with the NGOs and other authorities in order to coordinate the intervention and to
avoid overlapping in this area. The centers function in the structure of the SPSPCRs.

        Institutional development, training, public awareness, monitoring and evaluation:
It was noticed during the implementation of the Project that the building of capacity for the local
authorities in child welfare can be achieved through other methods and from partnerships either
with international financiers or with NGOs. For example, the training of personnel from child
welfare services, included the services developed under the Project, was carried out with USAID
financing and the public awareness campaign was included in the EU programs in the field of child
protection. Due to these findings, the only financing allocated from the loan to this component
was directed to the improvement of the monitoring capacity and to the dissemination of good
practice developed under the Project among the local authorities, NGOs and other entities, as well
as for the auditing of the Project. Even if the development of the capacity of the local authorities
to implement projects was not financed from the loan, the staff of the project coordination team
assisted the local implementation teams through all the implementation process, starting with the

        The dissemination of good practice developed under the Project among the local
authorities, NGOs and other entities was done through the multiplication of a video material with
eight short films and a presentation made by a UNICEF representative. The activity used the same
material that was used for the abroad dissemination of Romanian good practice, since this material
was found suitable for the goal of the Project. The material was used at both central and local
level in workshops and conferences and distributed to mass media.

Bank Performance:

        The Bank contributed to the preparation of the Project from the earliest stages, specially
through the agreement of the solutions envisaged for the reform of the child welfare system and
the support of the preparation of the implementation structure and mechanisms. Thus, the Bank
contributed with an IDF grant destined for the preparation of the Project and for building capacity
within the ANPCA, and also with the administration of an PHRD grant.

        These grants allowed the development of the financial management system for the CWR
Project, used at both central and local levels, and also the development of a management
information system used within the project implementation team.

        The contribution of the Bank was also very important in the design of the procurement
arrangements for the project, through the identification of the most suitable methods for the
award of the contracts. The procurement methods provided in the loan agreement assured the
completion of all the activities agreed and were in accordance with the specificity of the contracts
and complexity of the contracts.

        The supervision of the CWR Project by the Bank allowed for the identification of
solutions whenever the situation requested changes in the implementation schedule or in the
implementation mechanism. The timely agreements on solutions for solving the issues aroused
during the implementation of the Project contributed to the recovery of the delays from the initial



                                                - 25 -

  stage and for the completion of the Project.

  (b) Cofinanciers:
          The CEB, based in Paris, was not formally interviewed, but the Bank LIL had helped the
  Romanian Government both to obtain the necessary co-financing for the larger CEB loan of
  EURO 10 million, and gave shape and direction to the content of the CWR project. Contact with
  the CEB and USAID were closer during the earlier years of implementation, when the design and
  coordination of the reform was most important. However, the Bank kept in touch with both
  institutions throughout the implementation period.

          Close contact was maintained with the EU and UNICEF throughout the entire period.
  The relations with the EU were particularly strong as a result of the Bank-financed CWR
  supporting Romania's CWR policy conditionality for Romania to meet the Copenhagen criteria,
  and hence a prerequisite for the accession process. The relations with UNICEF were maintained
  as a result of the continual need for dialogue on children's right issues, street children, juvenile
  justice and interaction with the police.

  (c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
          NGOs interviewed by IMAS expressed appreciation that the efforts of the CWR project
  had leveraged their impact and scaled-up their interventions. Moreover, a significant number of
  the CWR sub-projects financed by the Bank and the CEB encouraged the Judets to strengthen
  their operational relationship with NGOs.

          On the other hand, as a result of the controversy generated by international adoption, and
  the subsequent moratorium imposed by the ANPCA under EU pressure, some NGOs became
  antagonistic to the interventions of international organizations, lumping the Bank in with them.
  However, this was a minority view compared to the overall positive view.

  10. Additional Information

                     Community-Based CWR sub-projects Financed by the Bank:

     Sub-project                                         Description of service
16 Ab 01                 Family-type placement center
  17 Ab 02               Family counseling and support center
  17 Ab 02               Family reintegration/integration preparation center
17 Ab 02                 Service for assistance of the children with discerning capacity in expressing his
                         opinion and exercising his rights
18 Ab 03                 Family counseling and support center
  18 Ab 03               Family reintegration/integration preparation center
18 Ab 03                 Service for assistance of the children with discerning capacity in expressing his
                         opinion and exercising his rights
19 Ab 04                 Family counseling and support center
  19 Ab 04               Family reintegration/integration preparation center
19 Ab 04                 Service for assistance of the children with discerning capacity in expressing his
                         opinion and exercising his rights
20 Ab 05                 Family-type placement center


                                                   - 26 -

  31 Ag 01              Family counseling and support center
  31 Ag 01              Mother and baby center
  28-29 Ar 01-02        Family counseling and support center
  28-29 Ar 01-02        Mother and baby center
  8, 9 B4 01, 02        Day-care center
  8, 9 B4 01, 02        Family counseling and support center
  45 Bn 03              Day-care center
  45 Bn 03              Family reintegration/integration preparation center
  45 Bn 03              Family-type placement center
  45 Bn 03              Monitoring and support service for pregnant woman with risk of child
                        abandonment
  45 Bn 03              Mother and baby center
45 Bn 03                Service for prevention of child abandonment through familial planning and
                        contraceptive education
46 Br 02                Family reintegration/integration preparation center
  47, 49,50 Br 03, 05, Family counseling and support center
  06
  47, 49,50 Br 03, 05, Service for assistance and support of the children with psycho-social disturbances
  06
47, 49,50 Br 03, 05, 06 Service for assistance of the children with discerning capacity in expressing his
                        opinion and exercising his rights
52-56 Bt 02-06          Family counseling and support center
  52-56 Bt 02-06        Family reintegration/integration preparation center
  52-56 Bt 02-06        Monitoring and support service for pregnant woman with risk of child
                        abandonment
52-56 Bt 02-06          Service for assistance of the children with discerning capacity in expressing his
                        opinion and exercising his rights
52-56 Bt 02-06          Service for prevention of child abandonment through familial planning and
                        contraceptive education
57-59 Bz 01-03          Emergency reception and assessment center
  57-59 Bz 01-03        Service for assistance and support of the children with psycho-social disturbances
57-59 Bz 01-03          Service for assistance of the children with discerning capacity in expressing his
                        opinion and exercising his rights
67, 68, 71, 75 Cj 02,   Family counseling and support center
03, 06, 10
67, 68, 71, 75 Cj 02,   Service for assistance and support of the children with psycho-social disturbances
03, 06, 10
67, 68, 71, 75 Cj 02,   Service for assistance of the children with discerning capacity in expressing his
03, 06, 10              opinion and exercising his rights
67, 68, 71, 75 Cj 02,   Service for prevention of child abandonment through familial planning and
03, 06, 10              contraceptive education
72 Cj 07                Emergency reception and assessment center
  73 Cj 08              Mother and baby center



                                                  - 27 -

  66 CL 02             Family counseling and support center
  66 CL 02             Family reintegration/integration preparation center
  66 CL 02             Placement center for disabled children
  60 Cs 01             Mother and baby center
  61 Cs 02             Family counseling and support center
  61 Cs 02             Family reintegration/integration preparation center
  80 Ct 01             Family-type placement center
  102-104 IL 01 a-d    Family counseling and support center
  102-104 IL 01 a-d    Family reintegration/integration preparation center
  102-104 IL 01 a-d    Service for assistance and support for young adults under the age of 26 in further
                       education
102-104 IL 01 a-d      Service for prevention of child abandonment through familial planning and
                       contraceptive education
115 Mh 01              Family-type placement center
  116-117 Mh 02        Family reintegration/integration preparation center
  116-117 Mh 02        Placement center for disabled children
  118 Mh 03            Day care and recovery center for disabled children
  118 Mh 03            Placement center for disabled children
  119 Mh 04            Day care and recovery center for disabled children
  119 Mh 04            Family-type placement center
  120 Mh 05            Day care and recovery center for disabled children
123 Ms 03              Service for assistance of the children with discerning capacity in expressing his
                       opinion and exercising his rights
126 Nt 01              Service for assistance and support of the children with psycho-social disturbances
  127, 129, 130 Nt 02, Day-care center
  04, 05
  127, 129, 130 Nt 02, Family counseling and support center
  04, 05
  127, 129, 130 Nt 02, Family reintegration/integration preparation center
  04, 05
127, 129, 130 Nt 02,   Service for assistance of the children with discerning capacity in expressing his
04, 05                 opinion and exercising his rights
132 Nt 07              Day-care center
  136 Sj 02            Family-type placement center
  153 Tl 01            Family-type placement center
  154 Tl 02            Day-care center
  154 Tl 02            Family counseling and support center
  154 Tl 02            Family-type placement center
  154 Tl 04            Emergency reception and assessment center
  156 Tl 04            Family counseling and support center
  158 Tl 06            Day-care center
  146 Tr 01            Day-care center
  147-148 Tr 02-03     Family counseling and support center



                                                 - 28 -

  147-148 Tr 02-03   Mother and baby center
  162 Vl 01          Day care and recovery center for disabled children
  162 Vl 01          Family counseling and support center
  162 Vl 01          Family reintegration/integration preparation center
  162 Vl 01          Placement center for disabled children
  163 Vn 01          Mother and baby center
  165 Vn 03          Family-type placement center
  166 Vn 04          Family reintegration/integration preparation center
  162 VS 04          Day-care center
  162 VS 04          Family counseling and support center
162 VS 04            Mother and baby center

                          CWR sub-projects Financed by the CEB:

     Subproject                                     Description of service
24 Ab 09             Day care and recovery center for disabled children
  24 Ab 09           Family counseling and support center
  24 Ab 09           Family reintegration/integration preparation center
  24 Ab 09           Placement center for disabled children
  34, 35 Ag 04       Day-care center
  34, 35 Ag 04       Family counseling and support center
  34, 35 Ag 04       Family-type placement center
  30 Ar 03 a         Day-care center
  30 Ar 03 a         Family counseling and support center
  30 Ar 03 b         Day-care center
  30 Ar 03 b         Family counseling and support center
  30 Ar 03 c         Day-care center
  30 Ar 03 c         Family counseling and support center
  30 Ar 03 d         Day-care center
  30 Ar 03 d         Family counseling and support center
  2, 3, 4 B2 01, 02, Day-care center
  03
  2, 3, 4 B2 01, 02, Family counseling and support center
  03
  2, 3, 4 B2 01, 02, Mother and baby center
  03
  37-42 Bc 01        Day care and recovery center for disabled children
  37-42 Bc 01        Day-care center
  37-42 Bc 01        Family counseling and support center
  37-42 Bc 01        Family reintegration/integration preparation center
  37-42 Bc 01        Monitoring and support service for pregnant woman with risk of child abandonment
  37-42 Bc 01        Placement center for disabled children
  44 Bn 02           Family-type placement center


                                               - 29 -

  48 Br 04         Family-type placement center
  62-65 CL 01      Family reintegration/integration preparation center
  62-65 CL 01      Monitoring and support service for pregnant woman with risk of child abandonment
  62-65 CL 01      Mother and baby center
62-65 CL 01        Service for prevention of child abandonment through familial planning and
                   contraceptive education
84 Cv 01 a         Family-type placement center
  84 Cv 01 b       Family-type placement center
  85-86 Db 01      Mother and baby center
85-86 Db 01        Service for prevention of child abandonment through familial planning and
                   contraceptive education
99-100 Dj 01       Day care and recovery center for disabled children
  99-100 Dj 01     Placement center for disabled children
  99-100 Hd 01-02  Day-care center
  99-100 Hd 01-02  Family counseling and support center
  99-101 Hd 01-03  Day-care center
  99-101 Hd 01-03  Family counseling and support center
  99-101 Hd 01-03  Mother and baby center
  106 Is 01 a      Family-type placement center
  106 Is 01 b      Family-type placement center
  108 Is 02        Day care and recovery center for disabled children
  108 Is 02        Family counseling and support center
  108 Is 02        Family reintegration/integration preparation center
  108 Is 02        Placement center for disabled children
  Is 04-05         Day care and recovery center for disabled children
  Is 04-05         Family-type placement center
  Is 04-05         Placement center for disabled children
  128 Nt 03        Family-type placement center
  133 Ph 01        Family-type placement center
  140 Sb 01        Family counseling and support center
  140 Sb 01        Mother and baby center
  141 Sv 01 a      Family-type placement center
  141 Sv 01 b      Family-type placement center
  141 Sv 01 c      Family-type placement center
  142-143 Sv 02-03 Day-care center
  142-143 Sv 02-03 Emergency reception and assessment center
  144 Sv 04        Placement center for disabled children
  145 Sv 05        Mother and baby center
  150-152 Tm 01-03 Emergency reception and assessment center
  150-152 Tm 01-03 Service for assistance and support of the children with psycho-social disturbances
150-152 Tm 01-03   Service for assistance of the children with discerning capacity in expressing his
                   opinion and exercising his rights
159-161 VS 01-03   Emergency reception and assessment center


                                              - 30 -

  159-161 VS 01-03 Family-type placement center
159-161 VS 01-03     Service for assistance and support of the delinquent children in social reintegration

                   Programs of National Interest managed by the ANCPA:

  Year 2000: PNI 1 " Support for the functioning of the Specialized Public Services"
             PNI 2 "Promotion of the child protection in difficulty in family environment"
             PNI 3 "Restructuring of the classical residential type institutions"
             PNI 4 "Social integration of "the children in street"
             PNI 5" Reorganization of the institutions transferred from ME, MH and SSPH to the
                    Local authorities"
  Year 2001: PNI 1 Social integration of street children
             PNI 2 Support of the reform in Services System and Public institutions designed for
                  the child' right protection
             PNI 3 Prevention of abandonment and Child protection in the family environment
             PNI 4 Reorganization of the institutions transferred from ME, MH and SSPH to the
                 Local authorities
             PNI 5 Promotion of the Foster family for the children with handicap or infected with
             HIV or AIDS
             PNI 6 Development of the social assistants net
  Year 2002: PNI 1 Social integration of street children
             PNI 2 Closing down of old-style institutions for disabled/special needs children that
             cannot be restructured/refurbished
             PNI 3 Training of the staff in child welfare system
             PNI 4 Support for children close to 18 years old leaving residential institutions
  Year 2003: PNI 205 Social integration of street children
             PNI 206 Closing down of old-style institutions for disabled/special needs children that
             cannot be restructured/refurbished
             PNI 214 Support for children close to 18 years old leaving residential institutions
  Year 2004: PNI 379 Social integration of street children
             PNI 380 Closing down of old-style institutions for disabled/special needs children that
             cannot be restructured/refurbished
             PNI 382 Support for children close to 18 years old leaving residential institutions
             PNI 415 Support for the reintegration of children identified in foreign states without
             supervision

                      Functional alternative services developed by SPSPCRs:

                            Functional alternative services                        No.
        1.   Mother and Baby center                                                56
        2.   Day care center                                                       122
        3.   Support service for the young people over 18 years in further         50
             education
        4.  Counseling and support centers for the parents                         66
        5.  Preconception and prenatal care services to prevent child              41


                                                 - 31 -

                      abandonment
           6.          Family reintegration/integration preparation center                                                              43
           7.         Assistance and support center for the psychological readapting                                                    10
                      of the children with psycho- social disorders
           8.         Guidance and supervision service for children who have                                                            14
                      committed offenses
           9.         Service for supporting children with discerning capacity to                                                       22
                      express their opinion and exercise their rights.
          10. Counseling and support center for the abused, maltreat and                                                                 9
                      neglected child
          11. Day care and rehabilitation center for the child with handicap,                                                           81
                      including mobile teams
          12. Services for street children                                                                                              13
          13. Others                                                                                                                    32
       Total                                                                                                                            559




                                  Number of children protected in Public Placement Centers
                                                                         06/12/1997  12/31/2002

60,000
I



55,000
                                                                                                               53,335*

50,000                                                                                                                                        Number total of children
                                                                              Transfer of ME/ MH/                                             protected in public
                                                                              SSPH institutions                                               placement centers
                                                                              (2000-2001)
45,000                                                                                                                           45,422*      (institutionalised)




40,000                      39,569
                                                            38,597

                                                                                                                                              Number of children
35,000                                                                                                                                        protected in public
                                                                                                                                              placement centers
                                                                                                                                              (institutionalised)
30,000                                                                                    30,069                                              excluding the children
                                                                                                                                              from institutions
                                                                                                                                              transferred from MEN,
25,000                                                                                                         25,810                         MH and SSPH


                                                                                                                                 21,859
20,000


15,000


10,000
                 06/12/1997                        12/31/1998                    12/31/1999             12/31/2000        12/31/2001

 06/12/1997- the beginning of the reform of the child protection system in Romania, through Emergency
Ordinance no. 26/1997 regarding the protection of children in dificulty; Law no. 3/1970 was abrogated;

* Including the children from institutions transferred from ME, MH and SSPH to the local authorities
(Government Decisions no. 261/2000 and 1137/2000/ Emergency Ordinance no. 206/2000).




                                                                                              - 32 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                               36.4%                               36.4%
1. Increase the efficiency of funds
management at the local authorities level: by
the end of year 2001 more than 40 percent of
the funds allocated from the central
government budget for child welfare activities
will be used to provide community-based
services.

2. Number of children entering former large    5,220 (18%)                         Yes, 43.3%
state-run institutions decreases by 35
percent in participating Judets by 2001.
3. Number of children leaving former large     10,105 (26.5%)                      Yes, 30.4% in 1999, further 26.5% in 2000
state-run institutions increases by 35 percent
in participating Judets by 2001.
4. Cost per child in community-based           56% -37.7%                          48% in 2003
alternative child care is maintained at not
more than 50 percent of state institution
costs by 2001.
5. Incorporation by Government, NGOs and Yes                                       Yes
communities of lessons from sub-projects
into future community-based child welfare
services.
6. Street children with secure shelter rises   1 in progress                       3 Competed.
by 60 percent in Bucharest by 2001.


Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate


First round of selected sub-projects have      Done                                Done
been initiated by March 31, 1999.
Second round of selected sub-projects have     Done                                Done
been initiated by October 30, 1999.
Decrease in number of children entering        Done                                Yes
institutions in sub-project areas by the end of
the year 2001.

A growing number of children are maintained Done                                   Yes
in family care (family preservation,
reintegration, adoption, fostering) by the end
of the year 2001.

The average stay for children in residential   Done                                Yes
care is shorter by the end of the year 2001 in
the sub-project areas.

Average costs per child in community-based Done                                    Yes
child care are lower than average costs in
child care institutions.

Community-based child welfare services         Done                                Yes
continue operating effectively through year
2001.

ANPCA and Municipality select proposals for No                                     Yes
Street Children Initiative by December 1,
1998.




                                                                - 33 -

Sub-projects become operational by March      No                          Yes
31, 1999.

Municipality-NGO/Community Group              No                          Yes
alliances formed and functioning.

Number of shelters for street children        Yes                         Yes
established and operational.

Range of services improved and expanded at Yes                            Yes
existing street children shelters.

Number of beds provided for overnight stay    Yes                         Yes
increased by 60 percent by end of the year
2001.

Decrease in the number of street children by Not clear                    Not clear
30 percent in Bucharest and of the year
2001.

Evidence of social reintegration of a growing Yes                         Yes
number of street children (reintegration,
adoption, fostering, growing level of school
attendance)

Improvement of Health status and education Done                           Yes
level for the assisted children.

Lower per capita operational costs than in    Done                        Yes
classic residential care institutions.

Selection of consultants or staff to join     Done                        Yes
ANPCA team completed by November 30,
1998.
                                              No                          Yes
Project MIS system fully developed and
data/reports utilized by project managers and
Bank team


1End of project


                                              Key performance indicators:

1.         (a) Increasing the efficiency of the funds management at the local authority level;
(b) By the end of year 2001 more than 40 percent of the funds allocated from central
government budget for child welfare activities, to be used for community-based services.

          Increasing the efficiency of funds utilization by shifting resources to community
based approaches.

     (i) Progress was made in shifting budget resource to community  based approaches during
     the last three years. Many institutions, in most of the Judets, have been downsized (virtually
     all Public Placement Centers) or closed-down (160 Public Placement Centers or nurseries for
     abandoned children in 43 counties and sectors of Bucharest).

     (ii) New services have been developed in most of location, with the Judets own resources or
     with NGO support. In April 2004 the number of functional alternatives services developed by
     SPSPCR is of more than 550 and the Family type placement centers is of 706, out of which



                                                         - 34 -

   580 are apartments and family-type houses and the balance are placement centers with
   family-type modules. The community  based services financed by SPSPCR were practically
   nonexistent during the reference period (June 1998).

   (iii) The quality of the personnel was improved. The selection of the personnel for the new
   services created was made by competition with the intern and extern recruitment in conformity
   with standards of qualities and the Romanian law.

   (iv)The management of the funds allocated from the Central Government budget for the
   child welfare activities is made by projects ("Programs of National Interest" - see Annex 10),
   with a county/local strategy and plan of action.

   (v) For an efficient protection of the children in difficulty there is a systemic approach at
   local/county level. The child protection is integrant part of the general framework of social,
   family and health policies, all directed towards determining an improvement of the welfare of
   the entire population and of the children, implicitly.

    In 2001, 35.3 percent of the resources from the Central Budget (administered by the
   ANPCA), were used for financing community  based child protection services. Note:
   This indicator was influenced by the program of the restructuring of the 190 institutions
   transferred from ME, MH and SSPH to the local authorities (Government Decisions
   no.261/2000 and 1137/2000 Emergency Ordinance no.206/2000).

2.      Number of children entering former large state-run institutions decreases by 35
percent in participating Judets by the end of the year 2001 (with intermediate decreases).

       Reduce the number of children entering institutions in participating Judets.

   (i) At the request of the ANPCA, a census of all children living in residential facilities,
   including disabled children in special boarding schools, was carried out in May 1997.
   According to the census, 98,872 children lived in 653 residential facilities.

   (ii) Through the Ordinance no.26/1997 regarding the protection of the children in difficulty,
   the law 3/1970 was abrogated and the Nurseries (Leagane), Home for the children
   with/without school (Casa de Copii), and Center for Minors (Centrul de Primire a Minorilor)
   have been restructured by the SPSPCRs in Public Placements Centers.

   (iii)The SPSPCRs were organized during the second semester of 1997 and they became
   functional after at least 2-3 months from their creation. In June 1997  the beginning of the
   legislative reform of the Child Protection System in Romania  the number of children in
   Public Placement Centers was 39,569 and decreased until 38,597 by the end of 1998.

   (iv)During the three years 1999 -2001, the number of children protected in Public Placement
   Centers (except the children from institutions transferred from ME, MH and SSPH) decreased
   to 21,859 (by 43.3%). The trend continued during 2002, 2003 and the first months of 2004.



                                               - 35 -

   (v) In 2000 and 2001, 190 institutions were transferred from ME, MH and SSPH to the
   local authorities and transformed in Public Placements Centers. In participating Judets 20,593
   children with handicap and/or special educational needs were transferred.

   (vi)The total number of children institutionalized in Public Placement Centers (including the
   children from the institutions transferred from ME, MH and SSPH) increased until 53,335 - in
   2000 and, in 2001 decreases until 45,422. At the end of March 2004, the total number of
   children protected in public placement centers (family-type or with smaller number of children
   per facility that those from 1997) was 31,406.

   (vii) In 2001, the number of children placed in private family type centers is of 4,543
   compared with 0 in 1997 (9% of the total number of children in residential care). At end of
   March 2004, the number was 5,614 (15% from the total number of children in residential
   care).

   (viii) In 2001, according to the ANPCA reports, the total number of children in institutional
   care diminished to 49,965 (including here 4,543 children in private family type placement
   centers-NGO - small group homes) compared with 57,181 at the end of year 2000. At the end
   of March 2004, the total number of children protected in residential care was 37,020
   (including the 5,614 children in private placement centers).

   (ix) The number of children placed in residential care (private or public) at the end of the year
   2001 was 49,965, a decrease of 50 percent compared with 1997. The decrease by the end of
   March 2004 was 62% (37,020 compared to 98,872 in 1997).

   (x) It is encouraging to note that, under difficult circumstances, from the total number of
   107,970 children registered in the SPSPCRs in December 2001, the share of children placed
   in residential care decreased to 46% from the total, compared with 90% in 1997. The use
   of preventive measures and of alternative care solutions (maintaining children in their natural
   family with support, placement to the extend family, foster care, domestic adoption, prenatal
   and preconception prevention, mother and baby centers) increased to 54 percent (58,005
   children). At the end of March 2004, the had risen slightly to 56%.

   (xi)Compared to the reference period of mid-1997-to-mid-1998, the Judets included in the
   reform program inflow of children in institutions has diminished by 12.8 percent in 1999,
   21.3 percent in 2000 and 19.4 percent in 2001.

3.     Number of children leaving former large state-run institutions increases by 35
percent in participating judets by the end of 2001 (with intermediate decreases).

      Enhance the outflow of the children from institutions in participating judets

   (i) The proportion of children under care who are institutionalized has fallen since the Project
   began, due to the increased outflows in the extended family and foster care (in particular)



                                                - 36 -

   and alternative care arrangements, including adoptions, small family type homes and family
   reintegration.

   (ii) The number of children reintegrated/maintained in the natural family or in the
   substitutive family was 58,005 in December 2001.

   (iii)Compared to the reference period of mid-1997-to-mid-1998, in 33 Judets included in the
   reform project outflow of children in institutions rose by 30.4 percent in 1999 and by 26.5
   percent in 2000. By the end of the year 2001 the number of children, leaving the state-run
   institutions out of the system, was 8,646, and the number of children transferred in other
   institutions, within the system was of 3,241.

   (iv)The decentralization process in Child Protection System, started in 1997, and the transfer
   in 2000  2001 of the 190 institutions from ME, MH and SSPH to the local authorities had
   have as consequence the transfer of children to, and from institutions. This transfer modified
   the indicators.

   (v) It is to remark that the counties participating to the reform project knew the biggest
   outflow of children from institutions in the first two years of the Project (30.4% in 1999
   respective 26.5% in 2000 compared with reference period). Thus, the children with the
   greater potential of re-integration left the residential institutions in the first two years of
   the reform.

4.      Cost per children in childcare community  based alternative is maintained at not
more than 50 percent of the state institutions costs by the end of the year 2001.

   (i) Community  based alternative care appears to be at least 50.8 percent lower in cost than
   institutionalized care.

   (ii) The specific costs have proven to be difficult to monitor due to the difficulties in
   obtaining the true costs of children in nonresidential care, with counselling, and assistance
   support being provided by multiple services from different levels (local and county), which has
   not always been factored into the costs or even valued correctly.

   (iii)The data shows a 52 percent lower cost for alternative services (including preventive
   services, such as maintaining children in the natural or extended family, foster care, day care,
   mother and baby units).

5.      Incorporation by the Government, NGOs and communities, of lessons from
sub-projects into future community  based child welfare service.

   (i) There was been a continued process of adoption of innovative community  based
   childcare ideas into the programs of judets. 216 new community-based child welfare services
   have been developed with Judets own resources or with NGO support.




                                              - 37 -

  (ii) During the period ANPCA provided through the Programs of National Interest (see list in
  Annex 10) financing for restructuring the child welfare system, developing practically the
  same type of services.

  (iii)The recently EU Projects incorporates and builds upon the same principles of the Bank
  financed CWR LIL.

  (iv)The ANPCA has requested a new loan from the CEB for the further development of
  services for street children, and this program represents a continuation of the existing
  component of the CWR LIL.

      Transfer of competence to the local authorities and NGO

  (i) During the Implementation of the CWR Project the Project Management Team transferred
  competences to the local implementation teams in SPSPCRs.

  (ii) In this respect they learned: to elaborate a sub-project proposal for Community-Based
  Child Welfare Services using the Guide Book elaborated under the CWR LIL, to manage the
  sub-projects implementation, to organize a biding for civil works, to elaborate and mange
  the procurement project, to make national shopping, to monitor and evaluate the
  sub-projects, to make a public awareness and to use the procedures established in the
  Project Implementation Manual.

  (iii)The responsible of the Specialized Public Services at local level, in the participating judets,
  learned with the Project Management Team's experts to utilize the procedures concerning a
  project implementation. They started to elaborate and manage an Informational System and
  the flow in the System for Child Protection in general, and in news services created in
  special.

  (iv)The local authorities learned to work in team and created a local dynamic around the
  child protection. We can remark the sustainability and availability of the local authorities, in
  general, and of the President of County Councils, in special, for the creation of the new
  services.

  (v) There are NGOs which utilize together with the SPSPCRs, the same principles and is built
  upon the CWR Project's experience, project sustained by the World Bank.

  (vi)The teams of specialists created for the implementation of the sub-projects under the
  CWR LIL were used for the further development of services with other funds (EU, USAID,
  National Interest Programs etc.)


      A model for the restructuring of the Child Protection System at local level was tested
and used by the other Big Donors at local level.
  (i) A part of the sub-projects proposed had a location in the Building of the Public Placement



                                             - 38 -

  Centers. After the location was approved, we tried to restructure the Public Placement
  Centers. They have been created new services in conformity with the initial proposal and the
  size of the Placement Centers was reduced and the personal restructured according to the new
  needs or the Placements Centers closed. These results are used in many countries in Romania.

  (ii) The creation of the new services imposed an other view concerning the Child Protection
  System. Results: the shifting of the human and budgetary resources, analyze of the needs
  according to the possible response (including inclusive the new services created), and the
  rational utilization of the human and budget resources.

6.     Street children with secure shelters rises by 60 percent in Bucharest.

  (i) The CWR Project created 10 shelters for street children in Arad, Iasi, Timisoara,
  Petrosani, Constanta, Brasov and Bucharest, Sectors 2, 3, 4 and 5.

  (ii) Due to the major delays in the Street Children Initiative Component this objective has
  been completely meet only in 2004. In Bucharest, as a result of increased focus of the
  Government on the problem of street children four shelters - Sectors 2, 3, 4 and 5 - have been
  constructed, with 65 secure places for street children (compared to zero in the public sector
  before). The Number of street children with secure shelter in Bucharest increased from 1
  shelter in 2000 to 4 shelters in 2003 only in Bucharest, which is a more than four fold
  increase.

  (iii)Protocols for 6 Street Children Coordination and Information Centers have been signed
  with all the partners judets after a long delay.

  (iv)Upon completion of these investments, Romania have a basic street children care
  network in place  and further investments are envisaged for the extension of the system and
  for the approach of different issues as drug consumption among street children.




                                               - 39 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                             Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                         Component                           US$ million   US$ million
I. Community-based Child Welfare Services                      27.00           31.71            117
II. Street Children Initiative                                  0.70             0.85           121
III. Institution-Building, Monitoring and Evaluation            1.80             2.85           158

Total Baseline Cost                                            29.50           35.41
 Physical Contingencies                                         0.00             0.00
 Price Contingencies                                            0.00             0.00
                            Total Project Costs                29.50           35.41
                    Total Financing Required                   29.50           35.41


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                                                            4.40          12.40      16.80
                                       ()               ()        (3.52)          (0.00)     (3.52)
2. Goods                                                            1.23          2.62        3.85
                                       ()               ()        (0.99)          (0.00)     (0.99)
3. Services                                                         0.55          6.16        6.71
                                       ()               ()        (0.49)          (0.00)     (0.49)
4. Operating Costs                                                  0.00          2.20        2.20
                                       ()               ()        (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
    Total                             0.00            0.00          6.18          23.38      29.56
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (5.00)          (0.00)     (5.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                              0.00            0.00         4.50           7.70      12.20
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)       (3.68)         (0.00)     (3.68)
2. Goods                              0.00            0.00         0.00           2.90       2.90
                                     (0.00)          (0.38)       (0.55)         (0.00)     (0.93)
3. Services                           0.00            0.00         0.00          17.71      17.71
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.05)         (0.00)     (0.05)
4. Operating Costs                    0.00            0.00         0.00           2.60       2.60
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
    Total                             0.00            0.00         4.50          30.91      35.41
                                     (0.00)          (0.38)       (4.28)         (0.00)     (4.66)



                                                   - 40 -

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
I. Community-based Child        4.30         1.90        20.80        3.84         4.36      23.51       89.3     229.5    113.0
Welfare Services
II. Street Children             0.50         0.35         0.00        0.42         0.43       0.00       84.0     122.9      0.0
Initiative
III. Institution-building,      0.20         0.95         0.65        0.40         0.25       2.20       200.0     26.3    338.5
Monitoring & Evaluation




                                                           - 41 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

       The CWR LIL was anticipated to provide economic benefited of three kinds; (i) improved
welfare conditions for the children including enhanced integration as productive members in
society; (ii) reduced numbers of children in institutionalized care; and (iii) lower unit costs for
child care for those remaining in the state institutions. Although no formal economic analysis was
envisaged, nor undertaken under the project, it is clear from the outcome indicators (Annex 1)
that these anticipated results were achieved.        The CWR project resulted in better welfare
outcomes for the children concerned, substantially reduced numbers of children in institutions, and
corrected for inflation, reduced costs for children remaining in care due to the much improved and
lower fixed cost service regime.




                                                 - 42 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/1998                   5    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); CHILD WELFARE
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PAS (1); FMS
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
                                             (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/1998                        PROGRAM TEAM
                                             LEADER (1); CHILD
                                             WELFARE SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PAS (1); FMS (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
                                             (1)


 Supervision
              10/04/1998                     PROGRAM TEAM                     S               S
                                             LEADER (1); CHILD
                                             WELFARE SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PAS (1); FMS (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
                                             (1)
              03/19/1999                3    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); CHILD WELFARE
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PAS (1)
              02/02/2000                3    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER(1);          S               U
                                             TASK MANAGER & CHILD
                                             WELFARE SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PAS (1)
              06/21/2000                2    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               U
                                             (1); TASK MANAGER &
                                             CHILD WELFARE
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              02/15/2001                2    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); CHILD WELFARE
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              10/10/2001                3    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); CHILD WELFARE SPEC.
                                             (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
              02/01/2002                2    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              HS             HS
                                             (1); TASK MANAGER (1)
              06/24/2002                2    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              HS             HS
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)
              05/09/2003                3    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              HS             HS



                                              - 43 -

                                            (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PAS (1)


 ICR
               05/2004                2     PROGRAM TEAM                     HS    HS
                                            LEADER (1); HEALTH
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               14                           53
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     7                           43
  Supervision                            105                           316
  ICR                                       7                           30
  Total                                  133                           442




                                            - 44 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 46 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

A. Project Implementation Manual

B. Bank Staff Assessments

   1. Proposal for Child Welfare Strategy, IDF Grant, August 1997.
   2. Proposal for Child Welfare Services, PHRD Grant, December 1997.
   3. Needs Assessment and Proposed Strategy for Child Protection Issues, E.
Roberts-Schweizer, May 1997.
   4. CWR PSRs and BTORs (various) Washington DC, 1998-2003.
   5. Qualitative Assessment, IMAS, Bucharest, May 2004.
   6. CWR Report, Graeme Innes (intern), Oxford, February 2004.

C. Other

   1. Child Welfare Reform Strategy, DCP, February 1998.
   2. Romania, Country Assessment, UNDP, December 1997.
    3. Can Romania Afford Not to? The Costs and Benefits of Implementing Community-based
Alternatives to Institutional Care, UNICEF,
   November 1996.
   4. Proposed Strategy for a Child Welfare Initiative in Romania, William Saur, April 1992.
    5. Who is Caring for the Children? An explanatory Survey Conducted in Hungary, Poland,
Bulgaria, and Romania; J. Evans. September, 1995.
   6. Child Welfare Tool-kit, Joint UNICEF-Bank production, 2002 and 2003.
   7. National Study on Child Abuse &Neglect in Romania, WHO-EURO, October 2001.
   8. Ad Hoc Report on the Situation of Child Protection in Romania, OMAS Consortium,
   Brussels, July 1999.
   9. For the UNICEF Romania Country Programme: Child Protection, David Tobis, New York,
   August 1999.
   10. Governmental Strategy for the Child in Difficulty Protection (2001-2004), GoR, 2001.
   11. Romania: Analysis of Local Financing for Child Protection Services, The Urban Institute,
   Washington DC, March 2000.
   12. Romania - Child Rights Protection System Reform Strategy Implementation Program
   (1998-2001), GoR/World Bank, Bucharest, June 1998.




                                             - 47 -

   Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

                                                  Romania
                                 Child Welfare Reform (CWR) Report


   This report was prepared by Graeme Innes, working as an unpaid intern on a field visit to review
sub-projects completed in the
   context of the CWR project.

   (1) Ramnicu-Valcea Community Services Complex

            This first-class service provides counseling, medical care and therapy to special needs
   children. The facilities are excellent, and the staff involved are enthusiastic and dedicated. The
   results of the work with handicapped children have been so good that demand as greatly
   increased. The service works to help children with such methods as physiotherapy, electrotherapy,
   hydrotherapy, massage therapy, counseling (both psychological and judicial advice), social
   assistance and reintegration of children into families or into society at large. In total, 60 people are
   employed in a complex consisting of several services. These services are all provided in new
   buildings, newly decorated and very child-friendly. There are 2,000 handicapped children in the
   area, and visits are made out to families in the field, as not all can be provided for by the service.
   Therefore, doctors and health specialists make assessments, so that the most needy have the
   priority in receiving care. Evaluations are made of the children's progress every six months.
   Families are also kept informed of how their children are doing, if their children are staying at the
   center.

           The service works with local authorities to provide the best possible care, including legal
   counseling. Depending on the circumstances personal and social intervention plans can be
   introduced, as the parent's ability to care for the children is assessed. At the moment, 40 children
   from families and 25 children from residential centers are receiving treatment. Several years ago
   there were 2,000 children in residential care (800 with handicaps), but now the figure is 950 (350
   with handicaps) as cases are being resolved. This particular services deals with children between
   the ages of 2 and 6. If it were not for this service they would have to go to Bucharest.

           In the neighboring building within the same complex there is a residential complex in
   which there were 250 people between 7 and 18. During the last three years, 53 children have
   gone into foster care, and 16 have been reintegrated into their families.

           One of the high standard facilities is a conference room, which is used for staff training
   and providing information to parents and guests. Dining facilities allow children to eat with their
   parents when they are visited. A child size hand rail along most of the corridors and disabled
   toilets have permitted easier access for disabled children throughout the complex.

           The quality of the play and sleeping rooms are excellent, as the furniture, toys and
   decorations are very child friendly. The whole service has a great friendly and caring atmosphere



                                                     - 48 -

to it. Since being opened in December 2002, this service has worked very hard to help with the
care and treatment of children in the area, including 18 abused and neglected children. As this
service is working so well, it could well be used as a model for other regions of Romania, and
more conferences could be held to help provide advice and information to other areas.

(2) Babeni Residential Centers

        In a small town, 15km from Ramnicu Vilcea, there are several residential homes for
physically and mentally handicapped children. Originally the number of children housed was 760,
but now the figure is much reduced to below 300. The centers have limited special equipment for
the children, all of whom live in the centers. The largest of the centers has had its higher floors
renovated using some World Bank funds, yet its ground floor, though not in use is in a dire state.
The rooms that have been re-done are very pleasant. The children are separated into different
rooms depending on their handicap and sex, and are attended by female workers and volunteers.
The sleeping quarters and eating facilities are good quality. There is a playground and plenty of
play rooms as well as other activities for the children. Areas for improvement are definitely the
ground floor, which is in desperate need of repair. Another issue is the lack of male role
models/figures in the lives of the children. A number of the `children' are nearing adult age, and
the continuing high standard of their care is another concern.

        Within the same town, there is a successful house for physically disabled children, between
the ages of 4 to 12. There are 30 children who stay at the Casa Pinocchio, 4 of whom come for
day care. The children are well-cared for, and are lucky to have excellent washing, eating and
sleeping facilities. Overall, this house was very impressive, and was delightfully decorated. The
lady who ran the house told us how the workers in child care in the area were proud to have the
World Bank's backing, as it advocates their work, and helps to add pressure on the local councils.
The only qualms would again be the lack of the presence of men in the children's lives.

(3) Petrosani Street Children Center

        This newly-built building for the street children in Petrosani appears is of a high standard.
The manager of the center, as well as the teacher, are very dedicated to this project, and thus the
project has been doing well. Since the center has been set up, 300 cases of children in the area
have been dealt with. At the moment, 16 children are using the facilities, with about three on
average staying over each night (capacity 12). Lessons are provided to the children, plus games,
activities and entertainment. Medical treatment and checks are carried out on new children when
they arrive at the shelter. The permanent medical staff work on 8 hour shifts, and they are
benefited by facilities such as isolation rooms, cooking/eating areas, over-night beds for the
children and good equipment. Working with the police and local facilities, the project is working
to re-integrate children into their families. Visits are made by a psychologist, to deal with the
social and family issues/problems raised by the children.

         The project has had to deal with the inevitable issues of unemployment, drugs (health in
general), family problems and crime. Further work must be carried out in the community, to aid
those who have been reintegrated, and to prevent more children from resorting to going out on



                                                - 49 -

the streets. Clear information must be continued to be provided for the children who attend the
center, as well as promotion of the center to other street children. The facilities can also be
developed further, as the children present expressed interests in sport and information technology.
The work has only been going for 3 months, and it thus must continue to be supported and
extended so that it can be thoroughly beneficial to the community.

(4) Resita Mother and Baby Center

         This center consisting of three new buildings has been running for 2 years, and so far there
have been 4,000 beneficiaries. The project is working with new mothers in the town and the
Judets as a whole, with a mixture of counseling (both group and one-on-one sessions), plus
accommodation for young mothers and parental assistance. The service provides 24 hour care to
mothers in the area, plus facilities for eight mothers to live in the rooms (with shared kitchen,
washing and playing areas). In total, 18 people are employed. At the moment, there are 100 active
cases. Mothers who do not have the finances to care for the children may stay at the center for 6
months to a year. The center continues to work with the mothers after they have left, especially
with reintegration into families. Through both counseling and teaching to young mothers, the
service is working to prevent the abandonment of the children. There are three teams that work in
the province, in conjuncture with the police and the local government. The service has been so
successful that through `word of mouth', with help from the local media, people have been
encouraged to attend the center, thus reducing the workload of the staff in terms of promotion.

         On the whole this center is very impressive, and should be set as an example for other
Judets. The film made about it shows clearly why this center has been so successful: due to the
dedication and commitment of the staff involved. The work currently being carried out must be
further developed into other parts of the Judets, with the help of greater funding.

(5) Timisoara - World Bank Assisted CWR Projects

         After applying for funding in 2001, eight World Bank assisted CWR sub-projects have
been approved and are being opened in Timisoara. The projects have been giving medical,
housing and psychological services to the many neglected children in Timisoara. Before the
projects were initiated, there were 250 street children, of whom 40% lived on the streets, and
75%of them came from other parts of Romania. The most common problem encountered with the
street children is solvent abuse. All of the children had abused solvents at least once, and half are
still using them. The two housing projects instigated with World Bank funds will be able to help
the children who are not being reintegrated into their families (so far 17 have been reintegrated).
The children who are reintegrated are continued to be monitored (which is not compulsory
according to Romanian legislation).

         The Timisoara projects are working with 8 schools in total, thereby helping 890
beneficiaries. The employees are regularly going into classes to provide information, especially on
issues such as crime and drug abuse. The projects have also helped 100 former young
prisoners/offenders reintegrate into their families.




                                                 - 50 -

        Another problem facing the street children has been the law that one can only attend
regular school lessons if you are not more than 2 years older that pupils of your own ability. This
has made it difficult for children who have missed several years of schooling to receive an
education. To resolve this, in school number 14, night and day classes are being put on for those
who are several years behind in their studies. In cooperation with both local councils and
churches, bakery and tailoring workshops and a computer club have been set up for both boys and
girls.

        In 1998, there were 2,400 children in institutions, by 2002 there were 1,259 and then by
2003 there were 800. This was in part due to the closure of the institutions for healthy children.
At the moment there are two large residential centers for severely handicapped children on 10
hectares of land.

        The projects also involve maternal centers, which have helped to reintegrate over 1,000
children into their original or foster families (there is a very strong network of foster families). At
the moment there are 450 maternal assistants being employed, but a target has been set of 550.

        Several centers such as emergency abandonment centers, maternal centers, street children
day/night centers and the art therapy centers have not be open very long, but are well furnished
and well staffed. Yet there are more ideas for projects in Timisoara and in the surrounding areas.
These include a bike repair shop and the creation of a park. The projects are of course concerned
with the level of care received by the beneficiaries once they turn 18. The next major challenge to
be dealt with is the Roma community. The projects are well run and are of a high standard.

(6) Arad Maternal Center

        A mother and baby center has been set up in the city of Arad. The center, which can house
10 mothers at a time (all of whom are unmarried), provided accommodation for 17 mothers in
2003 (50 have received rooms since the center has been open). The center provides support to
local mothers including counseling, family planning sessions, group activities and monitoring. The
center also works to reintegrate the mothers and their children into stable families. There are
currently 75 cases of family planning (half of which are with Roma) in which supplies can be
received for free and 35 cases of monitoring new mothers. In the local community day care
center, meetings and support groups are provided for mothers. Mothers also have the opportunity
to learn key skills including how to cook and what to feed their children.

        One of the problems encountered at the center is domestic violence against women. Few
of the women who suffer so are willing to discuss it. This has led to the development of a
telephone-hotline for women who feel threatened.

(7) Projects in Cluj Napoca

        There are currently three World Bank financed sub-projects in Cluj Napoca. In 2000, there
were 1,900 children in residential care, but this figure has now dropped to 615. Many children
have been reintegrated into families, adopted, gone to foster parents or left the system due to their



                                                  - 51 -

age. Two family foster homes have recently been set up in Cluj Napoca, while two more are being
developed in Floresc.

        In the area, there are at the moment 170 foster parents, but it is hoped that this number
will increase to 200 over the course of 2004. There have also been 200 national adoptions (mostly
from the Cluj Judets) since 2000. However, the pressure on the system to cope with the number
of abandoned children remains constantly high, especially during winter. These new services (such
as a day care center and a mother and baby unit) have been introduced to help the mothers in the
area to manage the economic and social pressures of caring for children. The problems with the
Roma community are greatest, highlighted by the figure of 70% of all children abandoned in Cluj
are of Roma origin.

        One center which has been installed to combat this problem is an excellent day care
facility for Roma children who are living on the city land fill site. The children are taken daily to
the center where they receive proper hygiene care, activities and very high standard facilities. A
major problem facing Roma children is that schools are often unwilling to accept them. Various
projects are currently underway, trying to change this mentality. The projects are helping to
renovate the schools, provide scholastic assistance to Roma children, repair houses, find jobs and
to give education for pupils who are too old for their grade.

        The emergency reception center for 8 to 14 year-olds is also of a very high quality in
terms of the service it provides to local children. Two to seven children are received each week,
and each child normally stays for 15 days (if there extenuating circumstances a child may stay for
3-4 months). At the time of the visit made to this center, there were 19 children staying, all of
whom were attending school lessons. About 20% of the children helped have special needs, more
boys receive care than girls. The living conditions and facilities available are of a very high
standard. As a way of earning an income, the home ran by dedicated staff have developed a
pickled vegetable business, which they use themselves and sell on as well. This particular center
was highly commendable, especially the commitment shown by the employees. One further
service that would be required (by request of local police as well) in the area is a separate center
for children who have committed crimes. It would be more beneficial to have the ability to
provide special care and assistance for those children who face criminal charges.

        In the same site, there is a parental counseling service which is currently dealing with 15
active psychological and social cases. The service is working to reduce/prevent abandonment of
child, and provides both group and individual counseling. There are support groups for families
who have adopted children, and visits are being made to local schools, providing information on
HIV and other diseases. People have volunteered to work with the service, which in turn works
with NGO's who publicize the service. The standard of the facilities are good, with high-quality
staff and a fine location. One other positive aspect of the service is how it is cooperating with
other councils, providing experience to others.

(8) Iris Maternal Center

        This newly-built maternal center which has rooms for seven mothers doubles up as a



                                                - 52 -

high-standard day center for 15 children on weekdays. It has been running for one year, and has
provided accommodation for 11 mothers so far. Many of the mothers at this particular center are
caring for their children by themselves as their husbands or significant others are in prison. The
selection criteria for the mothers who are chosen is that they must be from a poor background,
and are suffering from neglect or abuse. A large percentage of the mothers helped have been
Roma. The standards of all the rooms and facilities available are all top-notch, especially for the
children being cared in the day center on the ground floor. One of the problems being faced by the
maternal center is the lack of knowledge that new mothers have in regards to caring for/cleaning
their children and their rooms. Overall, the service is greatly helping in improving the situations
and lives of young mothers who are having great difficulties.

(9) Blaj Family Home

        This specially built house provides a family style environment and atmosphere for children.
The large house provides excellent facilities for the residential children, while employing 6
members of staff. The children are able to share rooms with one or two others. They receive help
with their studies in the evening. The house is in situated in a rural location, and the children
travel in to the schools which they attend. This style of upbringing provides more freedom to the
children, but also more responsibility, as they help with the cooking and other house chores, as
the children are prepared for independent life and adulthood. Another of the aims of the project is
to offer a regular family atmosphere, with a sense of security and the importance is pressed of the
value of morals. Again the enthusiasm of the staff is commendable, and the service is of a very
high standard. Some of the children who had previously been raised in cities were still not quite
used to living in the country.

(10) Counseling Center Cugir

        This center which is working with children in the town of Cugir also functions as a
placement center. At the moment there are 57 children in the placement center, while in 2000
there were 120. Thirty-three children have been reintegrated into their families since 2000. The
service is helping recipients up to the age of 21 to find jobs. The service also helps teenagers who
are encountering very difficult situations in high school.

        The counseling service itself has been open since March 2002, and since then there have
been 863 people in total for counseling. Currently there over 100 active counseling cases. Eighty
percent of cases come from the immediate area, but people are also coming from Alba Iulia.
Assistance is also provided to young mothers in the area. Due to the national benefits being
provided, there has been a 50% decrease in demand for places at the placement center.

        The counseling service is in very good condition, and although the placement center does
provide single rooms for older children, it could do with some minor renovations, including some
paint and more lighting. As with other centers in Romania, the placement is finding it increasingly
difficult to find foster care for any children over the age of 12.
        .
(11) Scele (Brasov) Street Children Center



                                                 - 53 -

         This street children center was opened on October 3, 2003. Of all the services visited, this
was the least impressive, and in fact quite concerning. Despite the fact that it can cater for 15
children, only 10 so far have even come once, and few have come back. Most worrying is how
few children are using this expensive facility, and how many staff are being employed to do little.
Considering the clear problems that Brasov faces in regards to street children (there are 20-30
permanent street children, and the number rises to over 200 during the day - 50% of whom are
Roma) it should be expected that more children would be using the service. The problems of
street children increase in winter, as during summer many of the children go to Constanta.

         The staff appear to have the right intentions, yet seem to be out of their depth. They are
too frightened of some of the children to actively go out and promote the service to the children
themselves. The staff must overcome their fears, and started talking and developing relationships
with the many hardened, drug-using street children. From surveys made from other services, over
80% of the children have skin diseases, others have sexually transmitted diseases. Solvent abuse
and other drug taking is common place. Other problems faced by health services include
tuberculosis, pneumonia, lung diseases and teenage pregnancy.

         The location of the center is also questionable. Scele is a town several kilometers away
from the center of Brasov. Even for the children to get there, they would have to take a bus, get a
lift or take a long walk. The center was put there as an estimated quarter of the street children in
Brasov originally came from this poor area. Yet the difficulty in getting there could prove to be a
hindrance to children in need of help.




                                                - 54 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results




             CHILD WELFARE REFORM (CWR) IN ROMANIA

        Qualitative Research on Child Protection Services
  Developed by the Romanian Government under the World
                                    Bank CWR program
                                     Iasi, Arad, Bucharest
                                               IMAS
                                     Bucharest, Romania
                                            May, 2004



  I. Introduction

  This research was produced as a result of the finalization of the World Bank CWR program in
  Romania, implemented by the ANPCA, co-financed by the GoR, CEB, NGOs, USAID and
  other bilateral agencies.

  It is well known that Romania has gone through a period of reconstruction and reform. One of
  the key problems faced by the GoR after 1989 was the problem of institutionalized children.
  The issue became a priority for governments after 1997, partly due to the pressure of certain
  international institutions especially the EU and international media opinion, and partly as a
  result of identifying the need of transforming child care institutions.

  The GoR CWR Program proposed 4 directions of actions: (i) reducing the number of
  institutionalized children, (ii) improving of the quality of care of institutionalized children, (iii)
  developing alternative care systems, and (iv) ensuring that older institutionalized children
  become productive citizens in the community. The project also focused on street children
  who represent a high risk group in terms of poverty and social degradation.

  The objective of this qualitative study is, firstly, to identify the impact of some of the projects
  of the CWR in Romania and to reveal the perspectives of social actors involved in the
  implementation of these projects, perspectives regarding the way in which the process of
  reform could continue. Secondly, the research attempts to establish the varieties of behavior
  and attitudes towards these transformations in different categories of social actors involved.

  Having focused on these objectives, the first step was to identify the categories of people able
  to provide information from the perspective of those within the system (beneficiaries of the
  reform  children and service providers  care centers heads) as well as from the perspective


                                               - 55 -

of those who have coordinated the reform or supported it (representatives of international
donors institutions, representatives of Romanian authorities).

However, the present study has to be regarded as being based upon a small sample, that of
several projects accomplished in Arad, Iasi and Bucharest. Thus care must be taken not to
extend the conclusions of this report to the whole reform process or the whole program
performed by Romanian Government in partnership with World Bank (CWR-LIL) and other
international financiers in a premature manner.

A great number of children have been transferred from big de-personalizing institutions to
ones which are more individual. Alternative solutions for institutionalization appeared, at the
same time new state institutions were created and living conditions of the children in the care
system were improved.


Number of services developed for prevention of situations that endanger
security/development of the child
Service Type                                                        200 200 200 200
                                                                     0    1     2   3
Maternal Center                                                      24  41    49   54
Day-care Center                                                      16  50    85 110
Parents counseling and support center                                13  23    40   64
Service of prevention of child abandonment before conception         2    6    14   21
Service of monitoring, assistance and support of pregnant women      8   13    17   20
inclined towards child abandonment
Day-care center for children with special disabilities               11  16    37   80
Service of orientation, surveillance and support of social           6    6     9   14
reintegration of delinquent children
Service of child assistance for exercising his rights and free       1    8     5   9
expression of his opinion
Service of child support in exercising of his/her rights             7    8    13   13
Service of orientation, surveillance and support of street children  1    1     6   11
Counseling, support and treatment center for abused and              0    0     4   11
neglected children
Other services oriented towards abandonment prevention               0    0    17   12
Total                                                                89 172 296 419

As strong as these system characteristics may be for the moment, the research has revealed a
slower rhythm of adjustment of institutional relations compared to the avalanche of hard
transformations performed in the system. Information access, personnel training in newly
created institutions, transfer of experience to all service providers from the system are only
several of the areas towards which the effort of those who are involved in the following stages
of the reform should be directed.

Consequently, children's life in the new care models has greatly improved from the point of



                                             - 56 -

view of better physical conditions, but it improved less from the point of view of children's
needs for affection, education, and social-professional integration after leaving the system.

II. Research Methodology

The present study used qualitative methods of research, focus groups and detailed interviews,
aiming to analyze the effects of the investments made by ANPCA in child welfare system from
the perspective of those who are involved, partners and beneficiaries of the reform. The results
of a qualitative research can not be generalized for the whole target population. They
indicate only the points of view and opinions of the participants in the research.
III. Executive Summary

According to the opinion of the participants (service providers, authorities and representatives
of international institutions) positive transformations during the last 6 years are visible in four
areas:

    l A change in people's perception towards abandoned/institutionalized children;
    l Another change in the level of competence of the people who work in the system (they
        have gained experience and competence);
    l A change in the organizational structure  there are two structures accomplished in
        each district: at the level of decisions  SPSPCR, and at the level of executive 
        ANPCA; and
    l The fourth positive change is developing the alternative solutions for child
        institutionalization.

The main perceived problems in the CWR are the following:

    l Lack of an integral approach of the reform  the function of control and coordination
        was performed with difficulties (now this function belongs to ANPCA as well as
        county SPSPCRs );
    l Diversification of care systems created a great demand for professional personnel
        which can not be trained overnight. ANPCA personnel meets the needs of the county,
        addressing sometimes social assistants - from the local authorities  which are often
        busy with other tasks or not qualified enough for all the cases that may appear);
    l On one hand the child welfare directions on the local level mostly depend on the state
        budget  the quantum of contributions of the three possible financiers (county council,
        local authorities and state) are not clear yet at the moment. On the other hand, many of
        the projects financed by international institutions will have to find local grantors after
        the partnerships expire;
    l Mentality problems  resistance to new things, difficulties in adapting to the style of
        work in a renewed system; and
    l Preoccupations that deal with child welfare reform seem to have concentrated mostly
        on the problems of institutionalized children.         The results obtained until now,
        regarding prevention (counseling for the child and his family) and those that deal with
        the chances of children exiting the system after 18 years old (school and professional
        orientation) are still far from the dimensions of the needs of society.

The support of the World Bank focused on two categories of assistance:




                                              - 57 -

   l Assistance in the sphere of personnel training, personnel that had to work in the newly
         created institutions. This assistance was exerted directly, by means of offering training
         courses (mainly financed by the co-financiers), as well as indirectly, by means of
         providing high standards that had to be faced by the services providers (from the
         design of the projects until the evaluation of projects); and
   l Simultaneous          development of a great number of services alternative to
         institutionalization of children, which lead to a reduction of the number of children in
         big placement centers and to the improvement of life standard of children assisted in all
         forms of care.

    Almost all the interviewees share the opinion that the author of these projects is the World
    Bank and the Romanian state might have difficulty to sustain them in the future. The
    future is uncertain for the directors from Arad and Iasi, and the perspective of transferring
    ANPCA to the MMSSF, and of SPSPCRs in under the budgets of local authorities is
    unpleasant to almost all.

The next step of the reform, according to our interviewees, should focus on the following

main issues:


   l reinforcing the achievements of the reform  improving the quality of new created
         services; qualifying the personnel; developing evaluation standards / monitoring and
         reporting problems occurred;
   l developing new specialized services for categories of children and families who were
         not comprised in the actual policies - special educational programs for children with
         severe handicap, opportunities for children who exit the system after 18 years old,
         prevention programs addressed to families in distress, more on prevention of child
         abuse;
   l communication campaigns on the offer provided by the state; information of potential
         beneficiaries of the services / public dissemination of system transformations;
   l involving community in dealing with the problems that cause children abandonment or
         other risk situations for the child; and
   l clarifying legislative framework / simplifying legal procedures.


IV. Detailed Analysis of the Responses

A. Perceptions on the changes occurred in child welfare over the last 5 years across the
interviewed categories of people

1. Most of the participants at the research (service providers and beneficiaries) consider that
the child welfare system has positively changed during the last 5 years. Important materials
purchases, new buildings, the latest endowments, reduction of the number of children
institutionalized in large care centers are several spheres in which positive changes were
noted.

2. According to the opinion of the participants (service providers, authorities and


                                               - 58 -

representatives of international institutions) positive transformations during the last 6 years are
visible in four areas:
    l A change in people's perception towards abandoned/institutionalized children;
    l Another change in the level of competence of the people who work in the system (they
         have gained experience and competence);
    l A change in the organizational structure  there are two structures accomplished in
         each district: at the level of decisions  SPSPCR, and at the level of executive 
         ANPCA; and
    l The fourth positive change is developing the alternative solutions for child
         institutionalization.


There was the program "Children First" that lead to the replacement of old residential
institutions by alternative services and the campaign "Casa de copii nu e acasa", which
finally has been a necessary dialog in such a sensitive reform. The people from the sector,
the professionals, the large audience are also a potential group that is able to participate
and it is important that they participate at this deep change in the society. (representative,
European Union Delegation Committee)

A lot has changed. I think that the most important thing would be          (before I get too
technical)understanding this problem not necessarily by specialists, but especially by citizens
and population: parents or communities. If 5 years ago a lot of people knew almost nothing
about institutions. Almost 100% of people if they had been asked "What do you think about
an abandoned child? Who should take care of him?" would have answered "The state. Leave
him in an institution, that's where he belongs to. I am sorry for him but I would like this
institution to be some place far away, so that I don't see it." That was their perception,
especially for children with special needs. However, step by step, people has learned to think
in terms of child rights.(director, ANPCA)

3. The success obtained in the reduction of the number of institutionalized children in large
placement centers seems highly important for authorities. Their number has visibly dropped in
the last few years, but at the same time the number of children in alternative variants of care
(maternal assistance, family type residential centers, entrustment to relatives, etc. see ANPCA
data) has risen. In fact, at a closer look, the number of children in a care center in Romania
during the last few years remained relatively constant, fact that shows that despite the
diversification and multiplication of services for child care in risk situations, the prevention
aspect (protection, assistance for families in distress) is still underdeveloped.


"If in the beginning of 1997 the solution for the problem of children abandonment was the
institution, now there are more than 500 services that can respond in a different way, among
which day-care services, maternal centers in which the child can stay with his mother, etc.
Thus a diverse spectrum of ways to respond to children's needs has developed in number.
Moreover, the approach has change  we have evolved to the identification of all the
possibilities: on one hand to keep the child in the family, on the other hand, when it is
impossible, to find a family type solution; thus the network of maternal assistants developed.
It is a new profession founded in '98 and still today there are 12,000 families of maternal



                                               - 59 -

assistants. These would be the results in time of the reform begun several years ago."
(Director, ANPCA)


4. As viewed by our respondents, the main problems in the CWR are:
   l Lack of an integral approach of the reform  the function of control and coordination
        was performed with difficulties (now this function belongs to ANPCA as well as
        county SPSPCRs );
   l Diversification of care systems created a great demand for professional personnel
        which can not be trained overnight; SPSPCR personnel meets the needs of the county,
        addressing sometimes social assistants - from the local authorities  which are often
        busy with other tasks, if not, then not qualified enough for all the cases that may
        appear);
   l On one hand the child welfare directions on the local level mostly depend on the state
        budget  the quantum of contributions of the three possible grantors (county council,
        local authorities and state) are not clear yet at the moment. On the other hand, many of
        the projects financed by international institutions will have to find local grantors after
        the partnerships expire;
   l Mentality problems  resistance to new things, difficulties in adapting to the style of
        work in a renewed system; and
   l Preoccupations that deal with child welfare reform seem to have concentrated mostly
        on the problems of institutionalized children; the results obtained until now, regarding
        prevention (counseling for the child and his family) and those that deal with the
        chances of children exiting the system after 18 years old (school and professional
        orientation) are still far from the dimensions of the needs of society.

5. In the view of the beneficiaries of these services, the transformations performed in the
system are mostly gratifying, but still there are draw-backs. The majority speak about the poor
quality of assistance offered by the personnel in institutions, about the offer of services which
does not cover the demand (there are cases which the system cannot approach yet), about the
short period of time during which the changes were adopted. Education and training of
qualified personnel, limited resources of the centers are still problems in the system.

6. The most important changes in child welfare appeared after 1997, period in which the
legislative framework was substantially modified. The reform was made "step-by-step, the
priorities were also identified step-by-step". Many of the service providers who were
interviewed say that from this point of view the great number of laws and directives adopted
in an emergency, still make adaptation problems.


The '97 decentralization and the new legislation concerning child welfare and adoption.
Then, in fact, followed preparation of the reform that took place in 1999 due to the financial
crisis that appeared in the system after that and due to the critique that regarded
international adoptions and what happened in this are at that time. After which, the following
phase in which I could say that the reform really started at the national level, was the
beginning of 2001. In which, I speak from our perspective  as grantors, alternative services
began to be created by World Bank projects. They began to be created in the country around


                                              - 60 -

1999-2000. I would characterize this period, 2001-2004 as a period in which there was a
transition from pilot projects to national policy. There was a strategy, there was political will
to treat this subject seriously and with responsibility, in a structural way and with
professionalism. That is there were premises , not only to implement a program but to make a
complex program as well which would really respond from many points of view to the needs
that exist that existed in the sector. (Representative, European Delegation Committee)


7. Group discussions and in depth interviews showed differences in perceptions of the child
welfare system's changes. The interviews with the chiefs of child care centers reveal an image
of the system that rather lacks the perspective of the whole or of what steps are to be taken.
Sometimes chiefs of the centers do not perceive themselves as parts of a coherent system, but
as those who solve a certain category of problems, after which, "the finite product" is left to
the future, mostly insecure. The explanation usually lies in the competences gained in a record
short time. Almost all the infrastructure changes were performed at the same time with
accumulation of competences in the reformed sphere of child welfare.

B. Perceived strengths and weaknesses of the finalized projects that were under the World
Bank program (Bucharest, Iasi, Arad)

1. The great advantages of the projects implemented with the support of World Bank and of
other financiers who participated at the project in the Child Welfare Reform are: quality of
equipment, good food, the fact that each child has his own private space, young personnel
from the newly created institutions, personnel with great capacity of adaptation.

2. All the subjects consider that the projects finalized with the support of the World Bank are
important projects as steps on the way of child welfare reform. Several newly created or
rearranged centers that we visited during the research are, from their point of view, examples
of success.

3. For most of the service providers who were interviewed it was difficult to name the types
of services that worked the best during this period. This fact is due, on one hand, to the lack
of competent evaluations of the corresponding services (for the majority the idea of
standardized evaluation is almost impossible to imagine, until now those evaluations have been
performed according to criteria elaborated at the local level). On the other hand, a great
number of service providers do not perceive their projects as parts of an integrating strategy
(some of them avoid evaluations, others avoid predicting what would happen in the future, for
example).

Prevention

4. Pancota and Ineu day-care centers are examples of two projects that offer assistance in
Arad to children who risk to be institutionalized. All the persons who have been interviewed
are satisfied with the emergence of these centers and with the offer of center. The parents
describe the appearance of these services as a miracle that changed their life into good. The
only great problem that is pointed out by all of these parents is a limited offer of places in
day-care centers. The majority has more than one child in a risk situation and the centers that


                                                 - 61 -

the children are enlisted in cannot take all the children. The latter begin to perceive the
differences between the conditions at day-care centers and at home and it will be probably
very difficult for them to adapt when they finally return home. However, all of them
appreciate the chance to learn things which they could not have had to in regular conditions.

 Family type placement centers

5. The family type placement centers built in the program supported by World Bank show
that children's life in a small community, similar to the conditions in a family, can make much
easier his further integration in society. The children from the family type placement centers in
Iasi are relatively satisfied with their new home (a villa where 12 children live), a house almost
entirely administered (except budget and food) by themselves. The aspect they are not
satisfied with is the attitude of the personnel which varies from indifference towards children's
problems to violation of some of children's rights (for example some of the children had their
secrets revealed in public after they told them to the psychologist at the center). Generally,
they feel much better in the new home and their results at school have improved.

Placement centers and day-care centers for children with severe disabilities

6. Day-care centers and placement centers for children with severe disabilities are
appreciated positively by the service providers as well as by parents who have children
assisted in such centers. This positive appreciation refers to the initiative of creating these
centers and to their existence, impossible to imagine, several years ago. Before these centers
were developed the parents virtually had no solution for the care of the child, who was taken
care of by the parent in collaboration with the doctor who treated the child.

7. Main problems pointed out by the parents of children with severe disabilities were the
following:
   l The means that the centers possess are still not satisfactory, most of the administrators
        are forced to work with a minimum of staff and equipment because of the lack of
        financial resources.
   l Lack of perspective for children who exceed the age until which they can be assisted at
        the center, lack of a specialized educational offer according to the type of disability
        and age. Practically, most of the parents who have been interviewed hope that new
        services for children will appear (especially, special education), until they exceed the
        age necessary to stay in the centers.

Day and night shelters for street children

8. The shelter for street children was thought as a temporary solution established until the
decision of the child protection commission is pronounced. It is regarded as a short term
solution, the services that are offered being limited. The children receive shelter, food and
clothes. The insufficient personnel, short period of stay in the center do not allow the
development of other projects with the children who are assisted there (education,
socialization). The perspective of transfer to placement centers frightens the children from
shelters, thus in most cases they get in the street again. In Arad, for example, there are cases
when children came to the shelter three times during the last year.




                                              - 62 -

   9. The providers of such services are aware of the insufficient results of their effort, but in
   general they do not see other solutions for which could be adopted for this category of
   children. Most of them expect these solutions to come from the ANPCA.


                               Strengths of the finalized               Weaknesses of the finalized projects
                                         projects

Services providers' views  - Number and quality of              -         Lack of coordination between the actions
                           services; diversity of offer in care of the actors from the system;
                           services alternative to              -         Gaining of knowledge necessary to operate
                           institutionalization;                in new conditions was made during the
                           - Professional training of the       implementation of the projects, that is in a very
                           employees in the system;             short time;
                           - Orientation of actions under       -         Collaboration with local authorities;
                           development towards priorities       -         Bureaucracy ;
                           that take into consideration the     -         System resistance to novelty
                           needs of the beneficiaries
International donors and - number and diversity of              -         Rapid development of alternative solutions
local authorities' views   services and high quality of some    left little time to professional training of the
                           of the services;                     personnel in the system;
                           - appearance of certain              -         Evaluation of the protection measures
                           solutions for children with          efficiency is still made according to standards
                           special needs and street children,   which are not regulated;
                           children for whom the offer is       -         Lack of coordination between Ministry of
                           still limited;                       Finance (financial coordinator of implemented
                           - creating competences              projects) and ANPCA, (technical coordinator of
                           personnel with a great capacity to the projects)
                           adapt to novelties;                  -         Bureaucracy ;
                           - reduction of the number of         -         System resistance to novelty - stale
                           children from big placement          mentalities
                           centers.
Parents of children from - Education adapted to the needs -               Few available places in day-care centers
day care centers and their of each child; counseling for both   that were built; in the communities from Pancota
children                   children and parents;                and Ineu the majority of children from the town
                           - Equipment, educational             would be eligible for this type of care;
                           conditions are far superior to the   -         Fear that at the expiration of the term of
                           ones provided by the natural         center placement, the children will lose the
                           families;                            progress accumulated until that moment and will
                           - Varied and consistent food;        return to the environment they came from.
                           - Improved education results for
                           the children who were declared
                           by the general school unable for
                           this type of education.




                                                 - 63 -

                  Strengths of the finalized                      Weaknesses of the finalized projects
                            projects
Parents of    - Excellent conditions for        - Lack of specialists for the treatment of children with neuro-motor
children      children with severe              disabilities;
with severe   disabilities;                     - Lack of a solution in the case of care and education of the child with
disabilities  - Education, care from the        severe disabilities, which would be adapted to the type of disability and
from day      personnel, who, even if they      age of the child. For example, for autistic children after the age of 7
care centers  sometimes lack the necessary      there is no special form of school institutionalization;
and           equipment, compensate by          - Medical care provided with poor means in many cases; certain
placement     attention, professional skills    treatment centers can be proud of the buildings that have, but they
centers       and kindness;                     cannot use them because of lack of conveniences (e.g. special swimming
              - Development of the center       pools from the treatment centers cannot be filled with warm water
              is considered in majority of      because the bills for energy that cannot be paid);
              cases the solution for their      - Lack of perspectives for the child after expiration of limit term that
              problem;                          the child can be taken care of n the treatment center;
              - Care and education of
              these children cannot be
              compared to what the parents
              could offer, if they kept them
              home.
Children in   - A clean, new, modern            - the perspective of the placement center frightens most of the
day and       building, a shelter;              interviewed children; in many cases they find themselves in the street
night         - Varied and consistent food;     again after the decision of transfer in a placement center is taken; nor
shelters for  - A certain freedom a            the decision of reintegrating them in the family does not give
street        minimal set of rules, which       extraordinary results in their case.
children      have to be respected, with
              which the children agree;
              - A relative freedom of
              choice  in the Bucharest
              shelter the children are not
              taken by force but can choose
              to stay if they like (teams of
              social assistants and police
              officers have the mission of
              identifying such cases and
              convince the children that the
              shelter is a better place to live
              than the street);
              - Freedom of going to school
              stays at the choice of the
              assisted child;


                                         Strengths of the finalized            Weaknesses of the finalized projects
                                                 projects
  Children in family type       - gaining a personal private space;       - Insufficiently prepared personnel  who still
  placement centers             freedom of arranging this space           react in an unprofessional way (for example, a


                                                     - 64 -

                          according to children's preferences;   psychologist reveals secrets entrusted by
                          - a certain independence  the         children at counseling in Iasi)
                          children gained trust into their own   - Discrimination of children left in regular
                          forces because they can take care of   placement centers. The selection of children
                          the house chore by themselves; they    who moved in family type villas in Iasi was
                          administer their house as a family     made depending on the wish of the director 
                          (10-12 children in a villa)            some children wee moved because they had
                          - improved results at school.          good marks, some  because they had a good
                                                                 material situation, or they are not gypsies.
                                                                 After this division some of the children lost the
                                                                 friends they had, the relationships between
                                                                 children were deteriorated.
                                                                 - A climate that creates constraints - for
                                                                 example, personalization of living places was
                                                                 possible in Iasi after it was demanded by
                                                                 international organizations not at the request of
                                                                 the children.


C. Appreciation of the subjects towards ANPCA and World Bank performance

1. The majority of those who have been interviewed know that a great part of projects within
the CWR in Romania were performed with the support of the World Bank. There is a
tendency to put the success of these projects on the account of the Bank, most of them do not
show confidence in what the Romanian state could achieve. Deep changes in child welfare
system are due to the pressure exerted by international donor organization on the Romanian
government, is the opinion of service providers and beneficiaries.

2. The support of the World Bank focused on two categories of assistance:
  l Assistance in the sphere of personnel training, personnel that had to work in the newly
        created institutions. This assistance was exerted directly, by means of offering training
        courses, as well as indirectly, by means of providing high standards that had to be
        faced by the services providers (from the design of the projects until the evaluation of
        projects); and
  l Simultaneous          development of a great number of services alternative to
        institutionalization of children, which lead to a diminishment of the number of children
        in big placement centers and to the improvement of life standard of children assisted in
        all forms of care.

A great contribution was made by the World Bank in the domain of personnel training for
each type of service, because each type of service, once made, had a very important point of
competences and professions of the personnel that we wanted to hire. Alongside with the
authorities, we had the possibility to select the personnel basing on the competences we
wanted and which were needed. So the Bank contributed by the projects which it developed
and by the training it provided for professionals who work in these projects. (State Secretary,
ANPCA )

The EU mission or that of the Delegation is to assist the government in bringing Romania to


                                                - 65 -

EU. From the perspective of child welfare, the European convention for human rights and
European convention for child's rights are both parts of community ID. In other words, we
monitor the way Romania respects these conventions. That's why there was a certain
insistence as for child legislation. To have services is not enough. It is highly important that
these services meet certain needs in a certain spirit. The way in which are treated those who
get into the child welfare directions is important, as well as the way their cases are treated
and the way they are judged, and if the are assessed through the perspective of conventions,
etc.. [representative of EU Delegation Committee]

3. ANPCA has performed technical coordination of the implementation of all projects on the
territory. The collaboration with the local authorities and NGOs is satisfactory from the point
of view of service providers. Some of them think that the topic of child welfare in Romania is
on political agenda during election periods and/or at the pressure exerted by the press or
international forums. Despite all this, collaboration with local authorities is satisfactory in the
cases we have visited. Although ANPCA elaborated a national strategy of reform, and district
directions elaborated their own coherent strategies, the general impression is that service
providers from the counties which were visited do not have yet a comprehensive image of the
reform, and act as parts of a whole which they do not perceive entirely.

4. Almost all the interviewees share the opinion that the author of these projects is the World
Bank and the Romanian state is unable to support them in the future. The future is uncertain
for the directors from Arad and Iasi, and the perspective of transferring ANPCA to the
MMSSF, and of SPSPCRs in under the budgets of local authorities is unpleasant to almost all.


F : Some people are afraid that after the money from the World Bank and EU are spent,
the system will have to function with its own resources.
F :In the case of maternal centers as well as of day-care centers, the financial support
from the World Bank was temporary and the rest of the expenses were supported by the
District council.
F : We try to make the day-care centers work as well as possible, then they are given into
the administration of local communities and each community knows that at the end of this
year or at least next year they will be overtaken by the local council.
Moderator : How does this perspective seem?
F : It seems worse to the mayors and local communities. Still it is for the advantage of the
community, anyway.
F: It was a day-care center in a village to which came children from other places too, the
mayor began to object because there were children coming not only from the whole
district, but from the whole country. [Dialogue between directors of child care centers from
Arad district, social assistants and psychologists from these centers ]

D. How life of the children changed due to the implementation of the projects? The next
paragraphs of the report refer only to children from the Day and Night Shelter for Street
children (sector 5), children from the family type placement center from Iasi and children
from day-care centers from Pancota and Ineu. The conclusions represent only the opinions
of these children.



                                                - 66 -

1. All the children who were interviewed were satisfied with the living conditions in the care
institutions in which they live. The most important things they acquired are:
    l Private space; those who live in family type placement centers and those from the
         shelters for street children live in rooms with no more than three roommates; there is
         space for personal things of each child;
    l Good / sufficient food although few of the children are not satisfied with the food
         quality or with the fact they cannot cook it by themselves (children from a family type
         placement center, Iasi);
    l Attention, care and understanding from the personnel (day-care centers, shelters for
         street children ); and
    l Treatment, recovery, progress attained by children with severe disability visible for the
         parents.

 No, I didn't want to come to the villa. Before (in the building of the large placement center) we formed a
group and got along very well. I didn't want to separate from them but finally I got used to it and realized that
it is better, because I could have privacy..  [Family type placement center from the community service
complex, Iasi]

 Beginning with teeth brushing and putting on shoes it is all a pleasure in that center. The center is a good
up-bringing and education for children. You have no time to deal with him, to offer him the food they have
there.  [M1, parent of a child from the day-care center in Pancota, Arad]

 The personal problem that appeared in my family I could not discuss with anyone, and I don't discuss with
anyone. But there, with the girls, I can discuss in a different way. They ask me things, tell me things and come
over to my house. He relationship is good we keep in touch all the time. [Parent of a child from the day-care
center in Pancota, Arad]

2. The life of children placed in a form of care visited by us improved much as compared to
the moment before the implementation of the projects. The only omission of those who
directed the reform is:
    l Insufficient and unmotivated personnel; yet some of the young highly trained
         employees leave the system searching for better paid jobs;
    l Inadequate evaluation standards for the child welfare system; the regulations are
         mostly elaborated on a practical basis, or adopted without being adapted, from the
         experience of other countries;

I had two social workers that left the jobs at the shelter for the street children. When you graduate you don't
believe you'll be in contact with such problems, you will have to deal with them. It's a difficult exam to work
with the street children. When I graduated I had a beautiful vision on working with children. Well, it is not
that easy. When new colleagues are coming and I watch them dealing with problems I had, I try to help them,
to encourage them, to make them understand and focus on the children's problems. They need us and we are
models for them. We have to be their father and mother. [Director of a day and night shelter for street
children, Arad]

3. The problems that deal with the way the employees of the centers understood the reform,
influence negatively the emotional development of the child, who still manifests lack of
confidence in his own forces, lack of confidence in the adults whom they contact all the time,


                                                    - 67 -

the feeling that belong to one, no place or belief which makes them vulnerable when they
come in contact with society. These aspects were observed mostly in children from small
family type placement centers. Those from day-care centers are more leveled from the point of
view of the emotional aspect, due to the fact that they did not lose contact with their families,
but possibly, the knowledge accumulated in the day-care centers separates them from their
families when they return there.

E. Perspectives on the future of CWR processes

1. Most of the services providers believe that the future of the reform processes in Romania
highly depends on the political exterior pressure on the Romanian Government and with a
minor extent, on the professionalism and willingness to do something among the employees of
the child protection system. However comparing the current state of the child protection with
the past situation, things have improved a lot.

2. Interviewed politicians had the most positive attitudes towards the future of CWR
processes. The others were more realistic in describing their views on the path of reforms.

"I believe that the strategy of child protection will change in Romania. For instance, I believe that the local
council from my village will be interested to carry on child protection if the children from my center were
from inside the community. Now, the children are not our children. They came from different counties. They
are from other places. This explains why such problems occur. Everybody will participate in supporting a
center for our children. It is difficult for us to survive now, we a re in a period of trial and error in the system.
[Monologue in the group discussion with chiefs of the centers in Iasi]

3. Sceptical views in what regards the future of the reforms were expressed by the
beneficiaries of the services. They are satisfied with the actual living standards but their
perceptions on the future are not as positive as they should be. The lack of trust in their own
capacity to overcome obstacles of normal adult life (like getting a job, superior education,
housing etc) makes the adolescents that are about to come out of the system very vulnerable,
more vulnerable than children living in families.

4. There are mainly two perspectives on the future of the reforms coming out of the
discussions. Some believe the situation will improve through preoccupation for reinforcing the
achievements obtained until now and developing the less tackled aspects of the child
protection (ANPCA representatives, EU representative, some of the beneficiaries). Others
doubt the continuation of the reform while new measures are to be taken in the near future
(the MMSSF is about to integrate the child protection system).

F. Conclusions and Lessons learned

1. Implementation of projects was usually ascribed to a successful process. Need for rigorous
assessment emerged from the discussions with service providers.

2. Actions of international organizations that supported the reform are perceived as highly
efficient. Either it was pressure on government to change the system or it was transfer of


                                                      - 68 -

knowledge on other countries experience the support was appreciated positively by all
participants at the reform process. In some cases, beneficiaries are convinced that the
transformation of the child protection system is completely done under the initiative of
international organizations.

3. The number and diversification of alternative services to child institutionalization and
reducing the number of children in big placement centers are the most visible achievements of
the reform. The effects mentioned before are got on behalf of structural - administrative
changes (creation of directions for child protection at county executive level and commissions
for child protection at county decision level).

4. Service providers are not fully certain about the sustainability of the projects implemented
under the CWR.

5. Specialized personnel for the new created alternative services were continuously coming in
the system. Although the need for professional employees is still high, the level of competence
of the people working with assisted children improved in the last years. The experience
obtained through working with international organizations is one of the points that creates
room for better quality of child protection services.

6. The next step of the reform should focus according to our subjects on the following main
issues:
   l reinforcing the achievements of the reform  improving the quality of new created
        services; qualifying the personnel; developing evaluation standards / monitoring and
        reporting problems occurred;
   l developing new specialized services for categories of children and families who were
        not comprised in the actual policies - special educational programs for children with
        severe disability, opportunities for children who exit the system after 18 years old,
        prevention programs addressed to families in distress, more on prevention of child
        abuse;
   l communication campaigns on the offer provided by the state; information of potential
        beneficiaries of the services and public dissemination of system transformations;
   l involving community in dealing with the problems that cause children abandonment or
        other risk situations for the child; and
   l clarifying legislative framework and simplifying legal procedures.




                                              - 69 -

- 70 -

