Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17465-RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN (LIL)
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR A
CHILD WELFARE REFORM PROJECT
June 9, 1998
Human Development Sector
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of May 8, 1998)
Currency UJnit = Leu
I Leu   US$.00012
US$1 = LC 8,350
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
BANK FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CEF           Council of Europe Social Development Fund
DCP           Department for Child Protection (Departarnentulpentru Protectia Copilului)
ECA           Europe and Cenitral Asia
EU            European Union
GoR           Government of Romania
GPN           General Procurement Notice
GSG           General Secretariat of the Government
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDF           Institutional Development Fund
ILO           International Labor Organization
LIL,          Learning and Innovation Loan
MIS           Management Information System
MoF           Ministry of Finance
NGO           Non-governmental Organization
PHRD          Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
PIM           Project Implementation Manual
SA            Special Account
SERA         Solidarite Enfant Roniain A bandonnee
SDF           Social Development Fund
SOE           Statement of Expense
SPSPCR        Specialized Public Services for the Protection of Children's Rights
(Serviciul Public Specializat pentru Protectia Dreturilor Copilului)
TA            Technical Assistance
TUNICEF       United Nations International Children's Fund
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Kenneth Lay
Sector Director: J. Christopher Lovelace
Program Team Leader: John Innes



iii
Romania
Romania: Child Welfare Reform Project (LIL)
CONTENTS
Introduction ...............................................................                                                              2
A. Project Development Objective ............................................................   3
1.  Project development objective and key performance indicators ...............  3
B.  Strategic Context ...............................................................                                                     3
1.   Sector-related CAS  goal supported  by the project ................................   3
2.   Main  sector issues and Government strategy ......................................   4
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ............. 4
C. Project Description Summary ..............................................................  5
1.   Project components .................................                                .......................               5
2.  Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ................   5
3.   Benefits and target population ......................................................                                     6
4.   Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ...................................    6
D. Project Rationale ..............................................................                                                        8
l .   Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection ........................   8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development
agencies .....................................................................                                          9
3.  Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .......................  9
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............................. 10
5.   Value added  of Bank  support in this project ............................11........... 11
E. Summary Project Analyses ..............................................................                                               11
1.   Economic ........................................................I 1
2.   Financial ........................................................                                                      12
3.   Technical ........................................................                                                      13
4. Institutional ................... 13
5.  Social .......................................................                                                           13
6.   Environmental assessment .......................................................                                        14
7.   Participatory  approach .......................................................                                         14
F. Sustainability and Risks ..............................................................                                                14
1.   Sustainability .......................................................                                                  14
2.   Critical risks .......................................................                                                  15



iv
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................                   15
G. Main Loan Conditions                   ......................                  16
l. Effectiveness conditions.............. I                     ............ l 6
2. Disbursement ............................1                               6
3. Covenants ............................. 16
H. Readiness for Implementation .............................                     16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .............................                    16
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .                                                17
Annex 2.   Detailed Project Description .21
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .28
Annex 4.  Financial Summary .29
Annex 5.       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .30
Table A.       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .32
Table B.  Procurement Schedule .33
Table C.       Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .35
Table D.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds .36
Annex 6.       Project Processing Budget and Schedule .37
Annex 7.   Documents in Project File .38
Annex 8.   Statement of Loans and Credits .39
Annex 9.  Country at a Glance .40
Annex 10.  Environmental Data Sheet .42
Annex 1 1.     Child Welfare Issues in Romania ......................  :          43
Map           IBRD 28710



Romania
Child Welfare Reform Project (LIL)
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Date: June 9, 1998                                   Program Team Leader: John Innes
Country Director: Kenneth Lay                       Sector Director: J. Christopher Lovelace
Project ID: RO-PE 55495  Sector: Social Protection   Program Objective Category: PA
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)   Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X   Yes  [   No
Project Financing Data                 [X] Loan      [  Credit    [] Guarantee        [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$5 million
Proposed terms:                        []    Multicurrency    [X ] Single currency, US$
Grace period (years): 5 years     []    Standard Variable [    Fixed           [X] LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20 years
Commitment fee: 0.75% undisbursed loan balance, less any waiver.
Financing plan (US$m)l:
Source                             Local            Foreign            Total
Government of Romania:                                     3.3               0.0                3.3
Cofinanciers:
Council of Europe Social Development Fund                8.7               2.2              10.9
Japanese Government (PHRD Grant)                        0.2                0.3               0.5
USAID                                                   4.4                1.1               5.5
The European Children's Trust                            2.0               0.7               2.7
EU PHARE2                                               0.4                0.1               0.5
Spain                                                   0.1                0.1               0.2
Switzerland                                             0.0                0.1               0.1
SERA                                                    0.8                0.0               0.8
IBRD3                                                      3.8                1.2               5.0
Total       23.7               5.8              29.5
Borrower: Romania
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Department of Child Protection (DCP) and County Councils (Judets)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999        2000       2001      2002
Annual    1.3        2.0        1.2       0.5
Cumulative    1.3        3.3       4.5        5.0
Project implementation period: 42 months  Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/98    Expected closing date: 06/30/02
' Excluding taxes estimated at USS3.3 million to be paid by the Government of Romania.
2 Additional funding will be provided in the future.
'Excluding an IDF Grant of $0.4 million.



Page 2
Introduction:
Approximately 100,000 children are cared for in the Romanian state institutionalized child care
system. Lack of counseling, financial support, and community resources for families in difficult
situations (such as poverty, domestic violence, alcoholism, single parents, and families with special needs
children) and the lack of alternative family care (fostering and adoption) are the main reasons for the
institutionalization of the children.
The number of children placed in institutions dropped until 1993, in part as a result of substantial
international adoptions; but since then the number has been increasing, and a growing number of very
young children are still entering institutional care due to economic and social distress exacerbated by the
economic transition. Once inside the system, children are rarely released from it due to a lack of
specialized services and alternative solutions, and the inflexible, poorly managed and staffed institutional
care system. In this way, the system keeps perpetuating itself as the growing children are moved from one
institution to another. (see Annex I I for more details.)
Although many non-government organizations (NGOs) have been involved in training, volunteer
work and refurbishment of facilities, the care given to the children in most institutions is inappropriate by
modern standards, and still leads to unnecessary disability and stunted emotional and physical growth in
many children. The negative effects of the prolonged institutionalization on children deprived of a family
environment are still very much evident.
The professional structure, training and skills of the staff working in child care institutions is not
responding to the specific needs of the children in care. Costs of institutionalization are very high both
financially (equivalent to three times the average salary per child per month and 2-3 times as high as
professional foster care costs), and socially, as longer term institutional care can be detrimental to the
health and functioning of children and can create a population of children whose disabilities need
permanent care. They usually emerge from the system with inadequate education and insufficient skills to
find productive employment, they are emotionally scarred, and unable to make a contribution to, or
participate in society.
Conscious of the economic and social costs of the current child protection system, the Romanian
Government is committed to implementing fundamental reforms to this field in order to meet the
children's basic needs and enable them to become productive members of society.
In response to these problems, the Bank is proposing a LIL as part of an inter-linked series of
activities to support the efforts of the DCP to reform the child welfare system. They include the
following:
*   An existing IDF Grant (US$363,000; DCP-managed; March 1998-April 1999) will enable
the DCP to complete the development of its strategy, undertake an inventory of all facilities
and the children therein, and prepare a public relations program.
*   A Japanese PHRD Grant (US$506,000; DCP-managed; April 1998-December 1999) will
both support the initial staffing of and launch of the LIL (including establishing the
monitoring & evaluation arrangements) and prepare for a subsequent larger operation.
*   As proposed here, the LIL (US$5.0 million; DCP-managed; July 1998-June 2001) will test
and promote community-based approaches as sustainable and cost-effective alternatives to
institutionalized child care and to test approaches to reintegrate street children in Bucharest
more fully into society.
*   As a follow-on effort to the LIL, it is envisioned that an Adaptable Program Loan (APL)
(FY2000/01) would expand upon and replicate successful approaches under the LIL with
preparation support from the PHRD Grant.



Page 3
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project development objective is to improve child welfare in Romania through testing and
promoting community-based child welfare approaches as sustainable and cost-effective alternatives to
institutionalized child care and for reintegrating of street children in Bucharest more fully into society.
Performance Indicators:
1. Increasing the efficiency of funds management at local authorities' level so that by end of year
2001 more than 40 percent of the funds allocated from the central government budget for child
welfare activities, will be used to provide community-based services.
2. Number of children entering former large state-run institutions decreases by 35 percent in
participating Judets by 2001 (with intermediate decreases).
3. Number of children leaving former large state-run institutions increases by 35 percent in
participating Judets by 200 1.
4. Cost per child in community-based alternative child care is maintained at not more than 50
percent of state institution costs by 2001.
5. Incorporation by Government, NGOs and communities of lessons from sub-projects into future
community-based child welfare services.
6. Street children with secure shelter rises by 60 percent in Bucharest.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16559-RO   Date of latest CAS discussion: June 3, 1997
The CAS supports the Government's development agenda to advance substantial structural
reforms to rationalize the role of the state and enhance European Union (EU) accession-related sector
programs while simultaneously providing measures to protect poor and vulnerable groups during the
transition.
The proposed LIL supports these CAS objectives in the following ways:
1. Short-term -- provide substantial advice, some direct finance, and leverage substantial
additional finance from other partners for the reform program of the Government. The LIL allows the
Bank to respond quickly and effectively to the Government's request for assistance in developing and
implementing a comprehensive child welfare reforn strategy. The LIL would contribute to the CAS goal
by promoting decentralized services and providing support through technical assistance and training for
capacity building both at the local and central level. It would support the government's reform strategy
by providing an opportunity to pilot cost-efficient and socially viable community-based alternatives to the
existing system of state institutionalization of children.
2. Medium term -- give priority to advice and financing for EU accession-related sector
programs. The LIL will support EU accession through the observance and promotion of the concepts
embodied in the UN Convention of Children and Recommendation 1286 of the Council of Europe
Consultative Assembly.
3. On-going -- expand development assistance management role and broaden and deepen Bank
partnerships with the EU, foreign and domestic foundations, private business and the NGO community.
The LIL will support the government's initiatives in child welfare reform by providing development



Page 4
assistance for capacity building of the DCP to manage the reform program, form partnerships, and
coordinate the various donors involved (i.e. Council of Europe, EU, USAID, NGOs, among others.)
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
One of Romania's key objectives, shared across virtually all shades of the country's economic
and political spectrum, is acceding to the EU. The broad challenges that this achievement implies are
addressed in the Government's program to: (i) fight poverty and develop human capital, and (ii)
strengthen and rationalize the role of the state.
Local initiatives to reduce poverty through the creation of a Social Development Fund (SDF) are
being encouraged. The World Bank and the EU are also supporting the Government's efforts to reduce
long term poverty in the country through investments in primary health care and basic education reform.
The Child Welfare Reform Project will build a new administrative structure at Judets level for an
effective administration for protecting children's rights. An IDF grant for Child Welfare Services,
currently underway, will help develop a legal and regulatory framework for decentralized services;
formulate financial and management guidelines for institutions; devise training programs for personnel
associated with child welfare; develop greater public awareness of the need for reforms in child welfare
services, and establish a new database on institutionalized children and services provided with a view to
analyzing dimensions and causes of institutionalization. The Child Welfare Reform Project will benefit
from and work in tandem with efforts made under the IDF.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Poverty and Human Capital Development. Children are one of the vulnerable groups exposed
to the costs of transition, and the country is faced with a problem of child institutionalization. Post-
Communist Romania inherited a large number of institutionalized children. Despite improvements the
number of children in child care institutions has been on the rise. A census of all children living in
residential facilities, including disabled children in special boarding schools was carried out in 1997.
According to the census 98,872 children live in 653 residential facilities nationwide. That is
approximately 1.7 percent of the total population of children between the ages of 0-18. This does not
account for street children and those abandoned in medical facilities, of which there are approximately
3,000 on the streets and 3,262 young children abandoned in health facilities.
Community-based services promoted through the LIL will strengthen local services protecting
children. Support, counseling, and education provided through these services to families at-risk and in
need will help raise self-awareness and contribute to poverty alleviation. Prevention and de-
institutionalization mechanisms promoted through the LIL will contribute to maintaining/reintegrating the
children in the social structure of the community. This will help them become future productive members
of the society contributing both to poverty alleviation and human capital development. The street
children program included in the LIL will also address poverty alleviation and human capital
development by providing services that will give these children a better chance for social reintegration.
Strengthening and Rationalizing the Role of the State. The LIL will strengthen the
managerial capacity of the DCP and SPSPCRs. The LIL will also support the process of restructuring the
provision of child-care at the Judets level through de-institutionalization utilizing the development of
enhanced partnerships with the NGO community and other development partners. The prevention and
de-institutionalization strategies supported by the LIL will return child-care more fully to the family,
where it truly belongs, with the state providing support mechanisms and direct care only to the most
difficult cases in a more community-based approach and thereby rationalizing the role of the government
in child welfare reform.



Page 5
C: Project Description Summary
The project will support the Romanian Government Department for Child Protection (DCP) in
reforming the child-care and the child protection system, through reducing the flow of children into
institutions, improving the quality of care for institutionalized children, developing alternative care
systems, and assisting older institutionalized children adapt to the community as productive citizens. It
will also focus on street children in Bucharest who are a group particularly at-risk to poverty and social
depravation. The project would build upon existing small-scale initiatives of other donors and NGOs and
the existing implementation structures within the DCP.
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component             Category       Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)              (US$M)   financing
I. Community-based Child    physical           27.0         92        4.3        86
Welfare Services          (goods, works,
services)
II. Street Children Initiative  physical        0.7          2        0.5        10
(goods, works,
services)
III. Institution Building,  capacity            1.8          6        0.2         4
Monitoring and Evaluation   building;
project
management;
learning/
adaptation;
monitoring
and evaluation
Total     29.5         100        5.0      100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The DCP achieved important changes in the Romanian legal framework in order to allow
decentralization and support for the concepts embodied in the UN Convention of Children and
Recommendation 1286 of the Council of Europe Consultative Assembly. The project would support the
implementation of the following key policy reforms and legislation initiated by the DCP:
*   Government Decision no. 205/1997 on the organization of the activity of the Local Public
Administration Authorities in the field of the Protection of Children's Rights;
*   Emergency Ordinance no. 25/1997 regarding adoption;
*   Emergency Ordinance no. 26/1997 on the protection of children in need;
*   Government Decision no. 245/1997 regulating the NGO accreditation in adoption;
*   Government Decision no. 604/1997 regulating NGO involvement in child protection; and
*   Government Decision no. 217/1998 regarding the accreditation of professional foster care
givers.
As a consequence of these new regulations, new Commissions for the Protection of Children's
Rights were established under the authority of each of the County Councils (Judets). They are chaired by
the Secretary of their respective County Council. Specialized Public Services for the Protection of



Page 6
Children's Rights (SPSPCR) were also established and they fall under the authority of the Commissions.
They act as the executing agency for each of the Commissions. Residential care institutions for children
have become the responsibility of the SPSPCRs. DCP is now the specialized structure within the
Government responsible for the coordination, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the reform
strategy in the protection of children's rights field.
The project will support the DCP's short and medium term implementation program goals for
child welfare reform:
*   ensure the observance and application of the UIN Convention on Children's Rights and of
Recommendation 1286/1996 of the Council of Europe Consultative Assembly;
* reduce the numbers of institutionalized children by promoting prevention and alternatives
which would lead to permanent family care solutions;
*   improve the standards of care in residential institutions and to restructure and diversify their
services; and
* facilitate the development, in the long term, of a cost-effective and sustainable child welfare
system.
In so doing, the project will also support the DCP's program objectives:
Develop and improve the legal and regulatory framework
Develop decentralized integrated Specialized Public Services for the Protection of
Children's Rights at county and local administration (towns, communes) level according to
regional and county strategies for reform implementation, policies, regulations, work
methodologies and training;
*   Develop alternative care models, promoting especially family type care models as
alternative to the residential care system; and
*   Develop community based support services.
3. Benefits and target population:
This project will provide a wide range of support services to the local communities, especially to
families at-risk, including young single mothers, their children, those children already institutionalized,
and other children in difficulty (especially street children). Without this project, local communities will
continue without the much needed resources to provide counseling and support to the families and
children in difficult situations. The main solution they can turn to will remain institutionalization.
Different levels of govemment, including the central DCP and local authorities will benefit
through capacity building, direct investments, and through the support provided to them by the project to
test and identify sustainable approaches to be developed on a larger scale subsequently. NGOs and
private service providers may also benefit through the partnerships developed with the central and local
authorities for the implementation of the sub-projects, as the project encourages the development of such
partnerships. Additional benefits would include: (i) increased public awareness of child protection issues
and enhanced participation of local communities to support families at-risk and children in need; (ii)
improved community organization and implementation capacity at the Judets level; (iii) attraction and
coordination of a wider network of development partners in support of child welfare reform; and (iv)
eventually more cost-effective and socially-effective alternatives to large state institutions.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period. The project would be implemented over a period of 42 months,
beginning July 1998 (i.e. 1998-2002).



Page 7
Executing Agencies.
The Department for Child Protection (DCP) within the Prime Minister's office would serve
as the Implementing Agency for project activities, and have overall responsibility for project
implementation, management, coordination, and supervision. A project implementation
manual (PIM) containing details about project implementation procedures and processes will
be prepared by the DCP with technical assistance (TA) as required, provided through the
PHRD Grant for Child Welfare Reform Project. Completion of this document, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, is proposed as a condition of loan effectiveness. The financial
chapter of the PIM will be cleared by a Bank-certified Financial Management Specialist.
Proposals for use of financing from the community-based welfare services component
would be reviewed and evaluated by the DCP which would also provide technical advice,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation. Proposals for the use of financing from the street
children initiative component would be reviewed and evaluated by the DCP in conjunction
with the Municipality of Bucharest.
*   At the Judets level, the SPSPCR, with technical assistance and coordination provided by the
central DCP, would implement small-scale project activities in their respective counties.
Project Coordination. The DCP will serve as focal point for all communications with the Bank
and other involved parties including coordination ofall development partners in the field of child welfare
reform. The DCP is currently headed by a Secretary of State and includes 14 other staff. The DCP will
contract additional experts, in the fields of project management, procurement, financial management,
construction engineering, social welfare, and monitoring and evaluation, in order to build capacity in the
DCP to implement the project. Financing for this purpose is provided under the Institution Building,
Monitoring and Evaluation component of the LIL and supplementary support is already being provided
by the IDF Grant, PHRD Grant and other donors.
Procurement and Disbursement. Detailed procurement and disbursement arrangements have
been agreed upon with the DCP/Government and will be reflected in the finalized project implementation
manual. Procurement will be undertaken both by the DCP and the Judets under the oversight of the DCP.
The DCP will open a special account with an authorized allocation of US$500,000 for the operation of
the project with an initial allocation of US$200,000. The Judets would be reimbursed by the DCP for the
eligible costs of the sub-projects approved under the LIL (see Attachments I and II of Annex 2).
Retroactive financing of up to $300,000 will be provided for eligible expenditure on civil works, goods,
TA and training required for the initiation of project activities since March 16, 1998 until effectiveness.
Annex 5 contains a summary of the procurement and disbursement arrangements covering civil works,
equipment, training and technical assistance.
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements. The DCP would establish and
maintain a project financial management system in a format acceptable to the Bank. The project annual
financial statements will be audited each fiscal year in accordance with Bank guidelines, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Whenever possible, grant finances from development partners would be
used to cover the costs of audits. Detailed accounts will be kept for each project component and its sub-
components. The accounts will also reflect the status of payment against each contract; utilization of the
Special Account (SA) and replenishments made by the Bank; and sources of funding used. Copies of the
audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of the country's fiscal year.
The audit report will cover both the compiled account of expenditure incurred during the fiscal year as
well as the Statement of Expenses (SOEs) used for withdrawals from the SA. Attention will be taken to
confirm the transparency and accountability of the use of funds from the beneficiaries.



Page 8
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. A project-specific Management Information System
(MIS) will be designed by a specialist (financed under the Japanese PHRD Grant) to serve as the key
project monitoring tool. The DCP would be responsible for monitoring progress against specific
performance and impact monitoring indicators. Indicators will include detailed progress benchmarks
consistent with those spelled out in Section A. I and Annex 1, and covering physical works, goods and
services, institutional arrangements, procurement and disbursement, financial management, community
involvement, and sustainability. The SPSPCR and community beneficiaries will furnish the DCP with
quarterly reports for review, summarizing implementation progress and utilization of project funds. The
DCP will prepare progress reports on the LIL every six months with the first report being prepared no
later than October 31, 1998. The format for quarterly reports will be outlined in the PIM.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Sector Investment Loan. This option was considered carefully, but was rejected as it did not
allow for a rapid response to an urgent government request for support of child welfare reform, nor
enable the Bank to be able to provide matching funds with other development partners in a timely
manner. Moreover, it would result in the Government contracting a larger loan than could be justified
currently given the uncertainties surrounding the most cost-effective child welfare solutions.
Non-Lending Services. The Bank is already supporting the Government through the IDF on
strategy development for the reform of child welfare services. The requirement at present is to test this
strategy operationally rather than undertake additional non-lending services.
Adjustable Program Lending (APL). While an APL would be an attractive approach for the
long-term, additional work requiring more analysis over the next nine months would need to be
completed first. An APL approach could be an appropriate follow-up to this LIL.
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL). The approach is proposed here because it offers: (a) a
flexible opportunity to test and promote different integrative approaches to child welfare reform,
particularly approaches that try to emphasize community-based innovations; (b) the opportunity for
small-scale innovation and experimentation which is essential in a transition economy that is moving
from state-centered management to decentralized county level management; (c) better client-
responsiveness, in that it enables the Bank to meet an urgent Government request. It also serves as an
effective catalyst in helping to develop stronger support networks and a coordinated approach with other
interested partners and donors who may have specialized expertise in child welfare reform (e.g. UNICEF;
Council of Europe- Social Development Fund; bilaterals; and various NGOs).



Page 9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                  Project            Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Institutional Development     Child Welfare Services - IDF     N/A            N/A
(RO- 51079)
Facilities rehabilitation and  Health Services                  S               S
groundwork for sectoral reform.  Rehabilitation (RO-PE-8759)
Assessment, quality, management Education (RO-PE-8784)          S               S
and finance reform.
Employment, social assistance  Employment & Social              U              U
and pension reform.          Protection (RO-PE-8776)
Higher Education Reform       Higher Education (RO-PE-          S               S
8793)
Rehabilitation of basic        Schools Rehabilitation (RO-      S               S
educational infrastructure.  PE-44614)
Reform of social assistance and    Social Protection Adjustment    completed
employment policy.           Loan (RO-PE-50432)
Financial and other health sector   Health Sector Reform (RO-  under
reforms.                     PE-8797)                      preparation
Social fund and innovative social  Social Development Fund    under
service delivery.            (RO-PE-49200)                 preparation
APL for social protection reform.  Social Sector (RO-PE-8783)  planned
Other development agencies
Council of Europe- Social     Restructuring and
Development Fund               Diversification of the
Institutions for Child
Protection
ILO                           Street Children Study
USAID                         Child Welfare Initiative
UNICEF                        Technical Assistance
Spanish Government            Technical Assistance
Swiss Government              Technical Assistance
EU - PHARE                    Technical Assistance
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Ongoing Government and Development Partner Efforts in Child Welfare within Romania.
The existing safety nets do not provide the needed support to families in need and at-risk. Besides
poverty, the main reason for abandonment and institutionalization of children is linked to the lack of
community-based resources to address the needs and the lack of alternative care solutions. NGOs proved
their ability to develop and implement projects in the child welfare sector and indeed they were the only
innovators in the sector over the last eight years testing different approaches. Unfortunately many of



Page 10
them concentrated on giving support to existing state institutions, investing large amounts of money in
refurbishment, equipment and other supplies, thus encouraging the perpetuation of these institutions.
Since 1993, NGOs started to develop (sometimes in partnership with the local authorities) services to
address prevention of abandonment and institutionalization, de-institutionalization and alternative care
options (embryonic social services, day centers, mother and baby units, small group homes, foster care
programs, etc.). Unfortunately most of these approaches are relatively small scale, albeit important pilot
interventions scattered in different parts of the country. However, in most cases, they lack an integrated
approach to the child welfare problem. At the same time, in most of the cases, local authorities were not
involved enough in the project design and implementation.
The LIL design will address all these issues by promoting an integrated approach to the projects,
encouraging local (Judet) authorities to participate in a competitive selection process (which will also
ensure quality of project design), building capacity at central and local level through TA and training,
and building on previous NGO experience by including the already existing projects and encouraging the
development of local authority - NGO partnership in the process of project design and implementation.
Other countries efforts in Child Welfare Reform. The Bank-financed Lithuania Social Policy
and Community Social Services Development Project demonstrated that high levels of commitment to
child welfare reform activities together with adequate budgetary allocations to sustain these activities,
could be achieved through a competitive selection process. In this process, local authorities would submit
sub-projects qualifying against agreed selection criteria. The LIL will follow the same path of competitive
selective sub-projects against agreed selection criteria (see Annex 2).
Other Bank-financed Projects in Romania. The slow disbursement of some Bank-financed
projects has demonstrated the need to keep projects simple, with straight-forward implementation
arrangements, a limited number of components, clear assignments of responsibility for execution, and
appropriate procurement methodologies. This LIL has adopted all these features in its design.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Romanian Government recognizes the economic and social costs of the current system of
institutionalized child care. It is committed to implementing fundamental reforms of child welfare
services aimed at meeting the children's basic needs and enabling them to become productive members
of the society. President Constantinescu launched a special initiative, "Romania's Children," in early
1997 to increase attention to the welfare of the young, in particular, those in institutions. The Government
has appropriately opted for a multi-pronged approach, including: (i) reducing the flow of infants and
children into institutions; (ii) removing children from institutions and placing them in more supportive
environments such as foster homes and group homes; and (iii) addressing the needs of children who leave
the institutions at age 18, having nowhere to go and no support network to draw on. Since it will take
considerable time and effort to place the children elsewhere, in the interim, the Government needs to
urgently improve the living conditions and welfare of children in the institutions. The proposed reforms
include:
* changes in the legal and regulatory framework governing children;
* the devolution of administrative and financial responsibility from the center to the local
(county) level;
*   the strengthening of the capabilities of agencies at the local level to enable them to provide
efficient services; this would include staffing and equipment, and training of a cadre of
social workers, managers and para professionals; and
*   a shift in service provision away from institutionalized care to alternatives such as family
support, fostering and adoption, group homes, mother and baby centers, and day care
centers.



Page I 1
The Government attaches high priority to this issue and has taken important initial steps towards
achieving its objective. In January 1997, a special Department for Child Protection (DCP) was set up
within the government executive structure, following the dissolution of the National Committee for Child
Protection which had never functioned particularly well. The DCP made a start on the legislative front by
abolishing the objectionable laws of the past and supporting the concepts embodied in the United Nations
Convention of Children and Recommendation 1286 of the Council of Europe Consultative Assembly.
The DCP has been working with the Bank to formulate a comprehensive strategy for child
welfare reform in Romania. The IDF grant will support the completion of the existing draft strategy this
year. The strategy proposed by the DCP includes:
* changes in the legal and regulatory framework governing the protection of children's rights;
* devolution of administrative and financial responsibility from the center (currently
fragmented among nine ministries) to the county (Judets) level;
*   strengthening of the capabilities of institutional actors at the local level to enable them to
provide efficient services; this would include staffing and equipment, and training of a cadre
of social workers, managers and paraprofessionals;
*   promotion of alternatives to the present residential care system, such as family support,
fostering, small group homes, mother and baby units, day care centers; and
*   increasing the role of civil society in the child protection field, by involving local
community and NGOs.
S. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Government has clearly set out a strategy for child welfare reform and child rights. This
project is an opportunity for the Bank to lend support in collaboration with other donors to ensure the
government's reform program is community-based and implemented with a fully comprehensive
approach for achieving significant and sustainable child welfare reform. The Bank project would provide
assistance to complement other development partners to bolster a comprehensive program that does not
overlap or leave out targeted areas of the reform. While the CEF and USAID are committed to providing
assistance to the DCP, their efforts are limited to certain areas. The CEF is lending only for civil works
and equipment, and USAID has proposed an intensive project concentrating on training and technical
assistance for three Judets. Other bilaterals have expressed interest in supporting the government effort
in the form of small technical assistance grants. The Bank project will lend support to those areas not
already addressed ensuring a more comprehensive integrative approach, including capacity building of
the DCP to manage the reform program and coordinate the various development partners involved. Such
investments are urgently needed and delays are unacceptable for children in institutions, on the streets,
and in families at risk. The Bank has an opportunity to fill this gap by using its wider development
experience and influence to catalyze more effective collaborative networks in support of the governments
integrative strategy for reforming child welfare services and protection. The LIL offers flexibility and
rapid response capability to test different approaches to child welfare reform and protection. The
opportunity will better inform future program investments.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic
The LIL is anticipated to provide economic benefits of three kinds: (i) improved welfare
conditions for children including enhanced integration as productive members in society; (ii) reduced
numbers of children in institutionalized care; and (iii) lower unit costs for child care for those remaining
in state institutions. These benefits, have to be set against the costs of redundancy and providing



Page 12
alternative employment opportunities for those staff working in large state-run institutions which are
closed down.
a. Improved Child Welfare. Analysis undertaken by child welfare professionals and NGOs
both in Romania and elsewhere demonstrate the welfare gain for children resulting from their de-
institutionalization and enhanced re-integration into society. While these gains are difficult to
quantify, the DCP proposes to establish a tracking system for children leaving state-run
institutions and compare this to welfare indicators for similar children under alternative care
modalities such as small community residential facilities, foster-care and adoption; however, such
results will not be available for some time. Improved child welfare is expected to result in
improved labor market results for these children as young adults, and much reduced rates of
delinquency and criminality among such children as they become adults. Experience from other
countries, e.g. USA and the UK, demonstrates very high economic rates of return to social
programs which result in reduced delinquency and criminality. Indeed, such child welfare
improvements are expected to lead to a lower flow of children escaping from the large
institutions to the streets, a major current source of street children.
b. Reduced Numbers of Children in State Care. The reduced numbers of children in state-run
institutions will have a directly positive budgetary impact. However the bulk of these budgetary
gains will only be realized as the staff in these institutions are downsized and the facilities
progressively closed down.
c. Reduced Unit Costs of Child Care. While further analysis is required, existing evidence
shows that community-based child-care arrangements are significantly cheaper than the large
state-run institutions. The unit cost per child in large state-run institutions averages between Lei
1.8 to 2.5 million per month. This compares to about unit costs per child per month in small
residential facilities, foster-care and adoption of Lei 0.9 to 1.2 million, Lei 0.8 million, and Lei
0.2 million respectively. Further details are presented in Annex 4.
d. Staff Redundancy and Facility Restructuring. As the reform process continues, the
economic and social costs of staff redundancy will be mitigated wherever possible through
retraining such staff in alternative care modes (e.g. foster care, care-providers in the new small
community residential facilities). Decisions on how to use the buildings vacated by the closed
state child care institutions will be taken on a case-by-case basis by the Judets responsible.
e. Improved Resource Management. The reform process will lead to improved utilization of
public resources and thereby have a positive economic impact.
2. Financial (see Annex 4):
Given the innovative nature of the LIL, the monetary and non-monetary benefits have not been
analyzed in the comprehensive manner associated with a traditional Bank investment loan. Affordability
at the Judets level is being ensured through: (i) a ceiling of US$500,000 per tranche per Judets for sub-
project clusters (see Attachment I to Annex 2); (ii) the encouragement of the participation of NGOs to
help defray start-up costs; and (iii) a strict requirement that Judets will guarantee that adequate recurrent
budget finance will be provided for the subsequent operation of any sub-projects.
a. Fiscal impact. As noted, in the section on economic analysis, over the medium-tern, the
alternatives to the institutionalization of children such as small residential facilities, foster-care
and adoption, have a substantially lower unit cost, and thereby would be expected to generate



Page 13
substantial budgetary savings. However, in the immediate-term the reforms are likely to result in
increased costs due to: (i) the inability to match the downsizing of existing large state-run
institutions exactly with the outflow of children from them; (ii) the upfront investment and
training costs required; and (iii) the costs related to the retraining, redundancy and or alternative
employment arrangements for staff in the existing institutions. These costs will be carefully
monitored during implementation.
3. Technical:
A sound strategy has been developed based on previous sector needs assessments undertaken by
UNICEF and the EU-PHARE program. These preliminary evaluations revealed the need of a more in
depth assessment which will be provided through the IDF Grant, the results of which will strengthen the
current child welfare reform strategy of the DCP.
There is a great need for capacity building both at a central and local level. Resources of
development partners will address these through technical assistance and training programs designed for
the purpose by specialists appointed under the IDF Grant. However capacity has been significantly
improved in certain Judets especially as a consequence of the intervention (technical assistance, training,
pilot projects) of development partners.
Training will address needs identified through assessment (IDF, PHRD) and will be based on the
experience gathered in the field by NGOs and other development partners. Qualified/experienced trainers
and development partners with front-line experience will be involved in preparing and delivering the
training both at a central and local level. High quality architecture and engineering standards will be
ensured by using highly qualified local TA.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agency: The primary executing agency for the project will be the Department for Child
Protection (DCP). Details of the executing agency and project management are described earlier in the
Project Description Summary and in the Institutional and Implementation Arrangements section, see
pages 5-6. The DCP has shown much energy in developing the child welfare reform strategy and has
already overseen the execution of a few sub-projects scattered around the country. However, to enhance
their capacity to implement a wider, more comprehensive program, further strengthening is being
provided for under Component III (see Annex 2). The SPSPCRs demonstrate varying degrees of
commitment and capacity. Therefore, a two-pronged approach is being adopted under the Government's
child welfare strategy. TA and public awareness will be used to build up capacity and reform
commitment in Judets where this is needed, while initial substantial investments will be made only in
those willing and capable of moving ahead. This will establish a strong demonstration effect to
encourage the less capable and willing Judets to catch up.
5. Social:
The IDF Grant already awarded to DCP by the Bank will address, among other activities, a social
assessment on the needs in the child welfare sector, with a special focus on institutionalized children.
This assessment will come to complement other social assessments already completed for instance by
UNICEF and EU-PHARE. The assessment will provide DCP with information needed to develop a
database and a tracking system on institutionalized children. The LIL will also include as part of its
monitoring and evaluation system selected beneficiary assessments which will be used for future project
developments. A social assessment on the situation of street children and NGO supporting programs has
also been completed under the Bank's SDF project. In addition, the LIL activities will disproportionately
benefit the gypsy population, a marginalized group in Romania, as the activities of the project aim to



Page 14
improve the lives of street children and institutionalized children of which gypsies are disproportionately
represented.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   []A   [ B   [X] C
The project has been classified as C (see Annex 10, Environmental Data Sheet) as no substantive
environmental issues are involved in the project.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: Primary stakeholders such as local
communities, local government, and NGOs will continue to be involved in a participatory approach to
identifying, designing and implementing pilot investments selected through an open proposal process.
b. Other key stakeholders: Government of Romania, Department for Child Protection (DCP),
County Councils, intermediary NGOs, parent associations, technical experts and development partners
donors (foreign and local).
Preparation  Implementation       Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups          CON           CON                 CON
DCP                                     IS/CON/COL  IS/CON/COL            COL
Intermediary NGOs                       IS/CON/COL  IS/CON/COL            IS/COL
Local government                        IS/CON/COL  COL                   COL
Other development partners              IS/CON/COL  COL                   COL
Note: IS = information sharing; CON = consultation; COL = collaboration
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of this project is based upon the existing experience which demonstrated that
community-based services will prove their efficiency both from a social and a financial point of view in
comparison to the existing institutional system. The future economic and administrative development of
Romania will allow the local authorities to continue funding the ongoing recurrent costs of the project.
The risks involved, as noted below, are considerable and relate to the national and local lack of
experience and managerial capacity in the field, the lack of human resources, inexperience with
NGO/private service providers support, project management, community participation, old fashioned
mentalities, resistance from the existing institutional structures, and lack of sufficient financing at the
national and local levels. The innovative nature of this project and its integrated monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms permit the kind of testing and experimentation that are so essential in the search
for practical approaches to mitigate these risks and to the identification of cost effective and socially
viable solutions which will facilitate achievement of the long-term objective, reform of the child welfare
system.



Page 15
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                 Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
1. Emergency Ordinance No. 26/1997 is     S      Ongoing monitoring by the Bank and DCP
applied.                                       of all compliance in those Judets benefiting
from the project.
2. Regulations for local administration-  S       Technical Assistance through IDF grant for
NGO partnership and financing are              developing regulations regarding local
designed and approved.                         administration partnerships and financing.
3. Minimal standard requirements and     M       Technical Assistance through IDF grant for
best practice policies for child welfare       developing standard requirements and best
services are designed and approved.            practices.
4. The Bucharest Municipality is          S      Intensive dialogue with DCP to build up
committed to co-financing and                  understanding of need.
cooperating with NGOs.
5. The Municipality continues funding the  S     Municipality establishes ownership and
ongoing recurrent costs of street              works in partnership with DCP and NGOs
children programs.                             to set up cost-efficient alternative services.
6. Street children are receptive to      N       Active awareness program and confidence
programs and take advantage to                 building are part of the project component.
services provided.
7. Active involvement of key             M       The project provides for the development of
stakeholders.                                  partnerships between local governments,
NGOs and private service providers.
Overall Risk Rating    S       Learning and adaptation through a strong
Institution Building and Monitoring and
Evaluation Component.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Social
1. The development of the project would result in the reduction in the number of institutionalized
children and, hopefully, will determine closing of some residential child care institutions. Staff working
in such institutions will become redundant. In order to limit the consequences of this problem, Judets
would be encouraged to address this issue and provide evidence of how the problem is being tackled.
2. Members of the local communities may have a negative initial reaction to the establishment of
facilities such as shelters for street children, day care centers for children with special needs, and small
group homes for children in their neighborhoods. Public awareness campaigns, involving the local
community in the development of the sub-projects and providing services to the local community through
the new facilities will help prevent such negative reactions
Governance
1. Inter-governmental coordination and especially coordination between the DCP and the local
(Judet) authorities with clear delineation of roles and responsibilities, will be essential for effective
implementation of the project. The SPSPCR should coordinate their activities with other local authorities
(Health Department, Education Inspectorate, Inspectorate for People with Special Needs, Labor and



Page 16
Social Protection Department, Town halls) and with NGOs in order to achieve their goals. Lack of
specialists and trained/experienced managers may impede on the effective management and
implementation of the project. Capacity building at the local level through technical assistance and
training will be essential to enable effective implementation of the projects.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
a. Completion of the Project Implementation Manual in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Target effectiveness date: July 1, 1998.
b. Appointment of staff satisfactory to the Bank for the functions of project management,
procurement, and accounting. Target effectiveness date: July 1, 1998.
2. Disbursement Condition:
a. Each sub-project meets the selection criteria as outlined in Annex 2.
3. Covenants:
a. The DCP will be maintained with an appropriate number of staff, adequate facilities, and
authority satisfactory to the Bank.
b. The DCP will carry out the Project in accordance with the PIM.
c. A monitoring and evaluation specialist and a construction engineer will be recruited by the
DCP, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, by November 30, 1998.
d. The selection and implementation of sub-projects will be carried out in accordance with
selection procedures and criteria agreed with the Bank.
e. Policies and procedures adequate for monitoring and evaluating the project on an ongoing
basis and in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank will be maintained and semi-
annual progress reports will be submitted for Bank review, with the first expected by
October 31, 1998.
f. A financial management system will be established by October 31, 1998.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[N/A] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[N/A] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Manual is being finalized, and as a condition of loan effectiveness, will
be completed by the DCP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Leader: Adrian Guth
Program Team Leader: John  nee,
Sector Director: J. Christopher Lovelace
Acting Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman



Page 17
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Romania: Child Welfare Reform Project
Narrative Summary          Key Performance             Monitoring and          Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                       (Goal to Bank Mission)
EU accession-related sector  1. Clear timetable for  1. Government             1. Political stability is
programs enhanced; poverty    Romania's EU accession   statistics/reports; project  maintained.
reduced and human capital    is established.           supervision reports.    2. Government creates and
developed.                2. Percentage of population                             maintains appropriate
with per capita                                      incentives for investment
consumption below 50                                 in community-based
percent of average is                                child welfare reform.
reduced from current
level of 14 percent.
Project Development                                                            (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
To improve child welfare in  1. Increasing the efficiency   1. Department for Child  1. Government and Judets
Romania through testing     of funds management at     Protection (DCP) reports    remain committed to
and promoting community-    local authorities' level so  and statistics.           alternative community-
based child welfare         that by end of year 2001                               based approaches to
approaches as sustainable   more than 40 percent of   2. Local authority reports  institutionalized child
and cost-effective          the funds allocated from   and statistics.             care.
alternatives to             the central government
institutionalized child care  budget for child welfare
for the reintegration of street   activities, will be used to
children in Bucharest into  provide community-based
society.                    services.
2. Number of children
entering former large
state-run institutions
decreases by 35 percent
in participating Judets by
the end of the year 2001
(with intermediate
decreases).
3. Number of children
leaving former large
state-run institutions
increases by 35 percent in
participating Judets by the
end of the year 2001.
4. Cost per child in
community-based
alternative child care is
maintained at not more



Page 18
Narrative Summary           Key Performance              Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators                 Evaluation
than 50 percent of state
institution costs by the
end of the year 2001.
5. Incorporation by
Government, NGOs and
communities of lessons
from sub-projects into
future community-based
child welfare services.
6. Street children with
secure shelter rises by 60
percent in Bucharest.
Outputs:                                                                          (Outputs to Objective)
1. Community-based         1. 1. Selection of first round  1.1. DCP evaluation and  I . Emergency Ordinance
Child Welfare Services.     of sub-project proposals   selection reports.         #26/1997 is applied.
Selected community-         by DCP completed by
based sub-projects          December 1, 1998;                                   2. Regulations for local
completed, operational      second round by June 1,                               administration-NGO
and financially sustained    1999.                                                partnership and
by the local authorities.   1.2. First round of selected   1.2. Local authorities  financing are designed
sub-projects have been    reports, DCP reports.       and approved.
initiated by March 31,
1999.                                             3. Minimal standard
1.3. Second round of       1.3. Local authorities and    requirements and best
selected sub-projects      DCP project reports.      practice policies for child
have been initiated by                               welfare services are
October 30, 1999.                                     designed and approved.
1.4. Decrease in number of  1.4. Local Child Protection   4. The Bucharest
children entering          Commission                 Municipality is
institutions in sub-       statistics/reports,        committed to co-
project areas by the end   County Specialized         financing and
of the year 2001.          Public Services for        cooperating with NGOs.
Protection of Child
Rights (SPSPCR)         5. The Municipality
reports, DCP reports.     continues funding the
1.5 A growing number of    1.5. Local Child Protection   ongoing recurrent costs
children are maintained    Commission                 of street children
in family care (family     statistics/reports,        programs.
preservation,              SPSPCR reports, DCP
reintegration, adoption,  reports.                 6. Street children are
fostering) by the end of                             receptive to programs
the year 2001.                                        and take advantage to
1.6 The average stay for   1.6. Local Child Protection   services provided.
children in residential    Commission
care is shorter by the     statistics/reports,
end of the year 2001 in    SPSPCR reports, DCP
the sub-project areas.     reports.



Page 19
Narrative Summary           Key Performance            Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
1.7 Average costs per child  1.7. Local authorities and
in community-based        DCP statistics/reports.
child care are lower
than average costs in
child care institutions.
1.8 Community-based child
welfare services       1.8. DCP, local authorities
continue operating        and project supervision
effectively through year  reports.
2001.
2. Street Children        2.1 DCP and Municipality   1. DCP and Municipality's
Initiative. Street          select proposals for     evaluation/selection
children initiative         Street Children          reports.
completed, fully           Initiative by December  2. Local authorities, DCP,
operational and             1, 1998.                 and NGO project reports.
financially sustained by   2.2 Sub-projects become    3. DCP, Child Protection
the Municipality of         operational by March     Commission, and
Bucharest.                  31, 1999.                SPSPCR statistics and
2.3 Municipality-            reports.
NGO/Community          4. NGO project reports,
Group alliances formed    health reports/studies.
and functioning.       5. Local authorities, DCP,
2.4 Number of shelters for   NGO and Bank project
street children          supervision reports
established and
operational.
2.5 Range of services
improved and expanded
at existing street
children shelters.
2.6 Number of beds
provided for overnight
stay increased by 60
percent by end of the
year 2001.
2.6 Decrease in the number
of street children by 30
percent in Bucharest
end of the year 2001.
2.7 Evidence of social
reintegration of a
growing number of
street children
(reintegration, adoption,
fostering, growing level
of school attendance).
2.8 Improvement of health
status and education



Page 20
Narrative Summary          Key Performance            Monitoring and          Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
level for the assisted
children.
2.9 Lower per capita
operational costs than
in classic residential
care institutions.
3. Institution capacity   3.1 Selection of consultants  1. DCP project reports and
building, monitoring       or staff to join DCP     activities.
and evaluation. The        team completed by     2. Bank supervision reports,
Central (DCP) and local    November 30, 1998.    3. Annual beneficiary
institutional capacity for  3.2 Project MIS system  assessment
implementing               fully developed and   4. Consultant audits
community-based child      data/reports utilized by
welfare reform is          project managers and
improved and a full        Bank team
monitoring and         3.3 Annual technical and
evaluation program is      financial audits
implemented.               completed.
Project Components/Sub-  Inputs: (budget for each                             (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2   component)
for project description)
1. Community-based child  1. US$4.3 million         1. Progress reports (every 6   1. Active involvement of
welfare services.                                   months commencing         key stakeholders .
October 1998).
2. Street children initiative   2. US$0.5 million
2. Disbursement reports.
3. Institution Building,  3. US$0.2 million
Monitoring and
Evaluation
Total                     US$5.0 million



Page 21
Annex 2
Romania: Child Welfare Reform Project
Project Description
Project Component I -- US$27.0 million -- Community-based Child Welfare Services.
This project component will support the Romanian Government to improve the welfare of
children through identifying, financing, monitoring and evaluation of sub-projects over a period of 42
months targeting prevention of abandonment and institutionalization of children, de-institutionalization
and quality of residential care improvement through alternative community-based services such as:
*   Family counseling and support -- providing advice and support (including material
support) to families at risk in order to keep them together and this way to prevent
abandonment and institutionalization of children;
*  Parental education -- teaching young parents how to cope with their children, helping them
to become reliable and good parents, encouraging parent/child bonding as a prevention to
child abandonment and institutionalization
*   Mother and baby units -- providing temporary shelter for young single mothers and their
babies in order to promote attachment and support the young mothers by providing
counseling (including legal advice) and parental education;
*   Day care centers -- (i) providing day care for children coming from families at risk (e.g.
where both parents have to work during the day time and there is no extended family
support), (ii) providing day care and therapeutic assistance for children with special needs
and parental advice to their families in order to support the family to understand better their
children and cope with their special situation
* Small group homes -- as community-integrated alternative residential care facilities
providing short/medium term care for children when other solutions are not available, until a
family solution is found; and
* Foster care training services -- to recruit, assess and train future foster parents.
Sub-projects will be identified through a competitive selection process. County/local authorities
will be invited to respond with sub-project proposals submitted to the DCP according to selection criteria
as outlined in Attachment I to Annex 2 (see page 24). Over the 42 months duration of the project, there
will be at least two rounds for sub-project selection. Sub-project proposals should be comprehensive and
may include: civil works for building small facilities, redesign and refurbishment of newly identified
facilities or (when carefully and fully justified) of the old residential care facilities. According to each
particular situation, the following costs may be included in the sub-project:
- procurement of goods (e.g. furniture, equipment, supplies)
- administrative costs
- training and technical assistance
- costs for local monitoring and evaluation



Page 22
- other operating costs (e.g. salaries, foster-care allowances - to be financed as a counterpart
contribution.)
Selected sub-projects will be carefully monitored through component III below, and will serve to
testlpilot the advantages/disadvantages of community based services and to assess the capacity of the
local authorities in order to prepare a larger scale intervention.
Project Component II -- US$0.7 million -- Street Children Initiative.
The number of street children in Romania ranges from approximately 2,500 to 4,000 with
seasonal fluctuations between winter, when the number is smaller, and summer when it is warmer and the
number grows. Of the total, it is estimated that some 65 percent of street children live in Bucharest of
which, about 50 percent are concentrated in the central area (Sector No. 1). About 70 percent of the street
children in Bucharest have come from other areas of the country.
a. Centers for Coordination and Information on Street Children (US$0.05 million). Up to
this point, a number of NGO projects, including those of Salvati Copiii, Parada, and Terre des Hommes,
have tried to address the issue and needs of street children with limited results. A Center for
Coordination and Information on Street Children was established recently in Bucharest to share
infornation among NGOs and the municipalities on street children. This has facilitated the tracking and
case handling of street children, reduced overlapping services, and provided a means for enhanced
collaboration with other government-funded social services, police and judicial entities. The center,
established with the support of several NGOs, has been so successful that a decision has been taken to
expand the approach to other cities in Romania with significant populations of street children. This
subcomponent will finance the DCP in conjunction with NGOs and the SPSPCRs, to add six more
Centers at approximately $8,000 each in the following cities: Timisoara, lasi, Constanta, Craiova,
Brasov, and one other city to be determined.
b. Strengthening Bucharest Street Children Services (US$0.65 million). This sub-
component will support the DCP and the Municipality of Bucharest to work in partnership with NGOs
and to identify, finance and monitor a number of sub-projects targeting service provision for street
children and reducing their number through family and social reintegration. Street children focused
services could include: (i) night and day shelters; (ii) counseling and legal advice; (iii) learning/
educational facilities; and (iv) medical assistance.
Sub-projects will be identified through a competitive selection process. NGOs will be invited to
respond with sub-project proposals to a tender offer organized by DCP and the Municipality of Bucharest
according to selection criteria as outlined in Attachment 1I to Annex 2 (see page 26). Sub-project
proposals may include:
- civil works for building or refurbishing small facilities
- procurement of goods (e.g. furniture, equipment, supplies)
- administrative costs
- operating costs
- training and technical assistance
- costs for local monitoring and evaluation
Selected sub-projects will be carefully monitored and evaluated through component III below,
and will serve to test, pilot and demonstrate services for street children and to assess the capacity of the



Page 23
local authorities to develop partnerships with NGOs. The results will be used for preparing a larger scale
intervention.
Project Component III -- US$1.8 million -- Institution Building, Monitoring and Evaluation
a. Institution Building. This project component will support the DCP to oversee the execution
of the project, monitor and evaluate all project activities. For this purpose DCP will recruit a firm to
provide specialists, satisfactory to Bank standards, for: (i) project management: (ii) procurement; (iii)
accounting and disbursement; (iv) construction engineering/civil works supervision (v) child welfare
services and (vi) monitoring and evaluation.
b. Training. The project will provide for the training of DCP staff in all the areas identified in
the paragraph above, as well as seminars and other training events for the SCSPCR and other operational
staff at the Judets level. Limited study tours abroad on child welfare management (principally to the
USA and Western Europe) for key staff will be included, together with local study tours in Romania to
disseminate the best practice from one Judets to another.
c. Public Awareness Program. The DCP will implement a major public awareness campaign
through newspapers, radio and television as part of the prevention strategy; encouraging families to seek
support and alternative services rather than abandoning children in institutions. The program will also be
used to inform NGOs and communities about the possibilities of support through sub-projects under this
project and also to educate and reorientate the staff in those Judets which are less reform-minded.
d. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). Monitoring and evaluation of all project activities
would be supported under this program subcomponent. The M&E specialist in the DCP will develop a
project-specific Management Information System (MIS) which will be the major tool for monitoring
impacts and performance. Impact indicators and other performance measures will be developed and
will be outlined in the Project Implementation Manual. They have been designed to allow sufficient
time for testing, learning and adjustment in order to successfully achieve project goals. Other elements of
the M&E program will include: annual technical audits, financial audits, periodic beneficiary
assessments, and Bank supervision. The project would finance establishment of a new monitoring and
evaluation capacity in the DCP. The SPSPCR, as beneficiaries, would be required to provide quarterly
project reports to the central DCP to facilitate this process.



Page 24
Attachment I to Annex 2
Romania Child Welfare Reform Project
Community-based Child Welfare Services Component
Sub-Project Selection Criteria and Procedures
Objective: The funding for this component would be used to carry out sub-projects targeting prevention
of abandonment and institutionalization of children, de-institutionalization and the increased quality of
residential care through alternative community-based services.
Amount: Funds from the Bank amounting to US$4.3 million over 42 months. The funding would be
disbursed in at least two tranches, with the first tranche not to exceed US$2.5 million.
Design: A competitive mechanism which will respond to proposals from the Judets and award grants to
the best comprehensive sub-projects. Sub-projects are hereby defined to cover a cluster of integrated and
complementary activities and services for child welfare reform which could cover the construction/
refurbishment of any number of small facilities within a maximum total grant amount of US$500,0001
(however any one civil works contract would have a maximum value of US$200,000). A review of the
criteria for size and limitations of proposed activities will take place after the first year.
Institutional Framework:
1. Funds out of the Special Account will be used to finance the Judets for the actual costs
incurred in implementing the agreed sub-projects. The DCP will collaborate closely with the
Judets, and will be responsible for technical assistance, supervision, and monitoring of these
activities.
2. Evaluation and selection of eligible sub-project proposals will be undertaken by the DCP. The
DCP will review and select sub-project proposals against agreed criteria as elaborated below
and submit to the Bank for review. The Bank would submit its approval and or comments, as
a rule, within 10 working days.
Procedures: The funding would be accessible on the basis of proposal requests by the Judets.
Application forms would be made widely available to all interested Judets nationwide. The Judets
application form would require detailed information on the proposed activity, including:
1. Name of Judets;
2. Title of sub-project;
3. History and current situation of child welfare in the Judets;
4. Objectives of proposed sub-project;
5. Description of proposed project;
6. Estimated cost of the activity and costs over time;
The total cost of the sub-project would exceed this grant amount due to the counterpart contributions of the
Government and any other development partner contributions.



Page 25
7. Specific works to be funded;
8. Management responsibility for implementation (including designation of local site
supervisor);
9. Detailed work plan;
10. Sub-project budget;
11. Evidence of community support and contribution to project; and
12. Commitment by the Judets to finance recurrent costs of the sub-project.
Timeframe: The target submission date for the first year's competition for proposals would be no later
than December 1, 1998.
Selection Criteria:
Mandatory
1. Priority needs. A list of needs to be addressed should demonstrate the integrated/
complementary functioning of community-based services for prevention, de-
institutionalization and alternative care facilities, including completion for those that already
exist in some form.
2. Commitment. Tangible commitment as evidenced by the Judets' commitment to sustain
sub-project and recurrent costs.
3. The number of clients, range of complementary/integrated services, and cost per beneficiary.
4. Contribution. Local contribution in financing of the project.
5. Community Involvement. Demonstration of community involvement/participation in the
sub-project and commitment to continue.
6. Cost effectiveness of proposed sub-project. Each sub-project activity should be justified as
a cost-effective investment in support of the reform of child welfare.
7. Cost limit. The cost of the sub-project must be budgeted within the limits set.
8. Funding. No project activity can be funded in part (unless if for completion) and subject to
additional unsecured funding.
9. Feasibility. Each project must be justified as technically sound and should be fully
implementable within 1-2 years (within the life of the project).
Desirable
10. History of Collaboration. Prior history of collaboration with NGOs, private service
providers, and donor agencies.
11. Partnership. NGO partnership in the design and implementation of the proposed sub-
project.
12. Prior Experience. Prior achievements of local authorities in similar projects.



Page 26
Attachment II to Annex 2
Romania Child Welfare Reform Project
Bucharest Street Children Services Component
Sub-Project Selection Criteria and Procedures
Objective: The funding for this component would be used to carry out sub-projects targeting service
provision for street children and reducing their number through family and social reintegration.
Street children are understood to be children between 0 and 18 years old who have left their
homes and are living on the streets and/or railway stations of larger towns. Street children have been
classified into three categories:
1. Children chronically on the street;
2. New comers on the street (having recently run away from home, or having recently been
abandoned); and
3. Children occasionally on the street (working on the street) and returning home in the
evenings.
Amount: Funds from the Bank amounting to US$0.45 million over 42 months. The funding would be
disbursed in one or more tranches.
Design: A competitive mechanism which will respond to proposals from NGOs and other organizations
and award grants to the best comprehensive sub-projects. Sub-projects are hereby defined to cover a
cluster of integrated and complementary activities and services for street children to be developed in
partnership with the Bucharest Municipality and sector SPSPCRs. These could include the construction/
refurbishment and furnishing of any number of small facilities within a maximum total grant amount of
US$75,0001.
Institutional Framework:
1. Funds out of the Special Account will be used to finance the Municipality of Bucharest for
the actual costs incurred in implementing the agreed sub-projects. The DCP will collaborate
closely with the Bucharest Municipality and sector SPSPCRs, and will be responsible for
technical assistance, supervision, and monitoring of these activities.
2. Evaluation and selection of eligible sub-project proposals will be undertaken by the DCP and
Municipality. The DCP will review and select sub-project proposals against agreed criteria as
elaborated below and submit to the Bank for review. The Bank would submit its approval
and or comments, as a rule, within 10 working days.
Procedures: The funding would be accessible on the basis of proposal requests by NGOs, the Bucharest
Municipality and other organizations providing services to street children. Application forms would be
The total cost of the sub-project would exceed this grant amount due to the counterpart contributions of the
Government and any other development partner contributions.



Page 27
made widely available to all interested NGOs and organizations. The application form would require
detailed information on the proposed activity, including:
1. Name of NGO/organization;
2. Title of sub-project;
3. History of applicant's activity with street children;
4. Objectives of proposed sub-project;
5. Description of proposed project;
6. Estimated cost of the activity and costs over time;
7. Specific works to be funded;
8. Management responsibility for implementation;
9. Detailed work plan;
10. Sub-project budget;
11. Evidence of community support and contribution to project; and
12. Commitment by the Bucharest Municipality to finance recurrent costs of the sub-project.
Timeframe: The target submission date for proposals would be no later than December 1, 1998.
Selection Criteria:
Mandatory
1. Prior achievements in implementing child welfare services.
2. Prior commitment to street children issues.
3. Previous experience of partnership with local authorities.
4. Community involvement/participation to the sub-project.
5. Quality of project design (vision, number of clients, type and structure of services, etc.).
6. Sustainability. The continued financing of the activity should be clear - including
commitment by the municipality to finance ongoing recurrent costs where this is applicable
7. Cost Effectiveness of proposed intervention. Each sub-project activity should be justified
as a cost-effective investment in addressing street children.
8. Cost limit. The cost of the sub-project must be budgeted within the limits set.
9. Funding. No project activity can be funded in part (unless if for completion) and subject to
additional unsecured funding.
10. Feasibility. Each project must be justified as technically sound and should be fully
implementable within 1-2 years (within the life of the project).



Page 28
Annex 3
Romania: Child Welfare Reform Project
Estimated Project Costs
Total Costs (All Financiers)
Project Component                                             Local            Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
I. Community-based Child Welfare Services                     21.9               5.1          27.0
II. Street Children Initiative                                  0.6              0.1          0.7
III. Institution Building, Monitoring and Evaluation            1.2              0.6          1.8
Total Project Cost                                             23.7              5.8         29.5
IBRD
Project Component                                             Local            Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
I. Community-based Child Welfare Services                       3.4              0.9           4.3
II. Street Children Initiative                                  0.4              0.1           0.5
III. Institution Building, Monitoring and Evaluation            0.1              0.1           0.2
Total Project Cost                                             3.9               1.1           5.0



Page 29
Annex 4
Romania: Child Welfare Reform Project
Financial Summary
(in US$ million, base year 1998)
Implementation Period
1998       1999       2000       2001
Project Costs
Investment Costs            5.9        8.7        9.5         3.9
Recurrent Costs             0.1        0.3        0.5         0.6
Total                    6.0        9.0        10.0        4.5
Financing Sources (% of
total project costs)
IBRD                        8          18         21          18-
Co-financiers              85          72         68          62
Government                  7          10         11          20
Total               100         100        100        100
Main assumptions:
- The project becomes effective by July 1, 1998.
- The CEF loan becomes effective by July 1, 1998.
- All donor-funded programs maintain their current schedule.
Recurrent Cost Analysis of Alternative Child Welfare Modalities
March 1998 (Lei in million per child per month)
Cost Category   State           Community         Professional   Voluntary       Adoption or
Institutions   Residential Care  Foster Care    Foster Care      Family
Reintegration
Operational       1.70 to 2.40     0.80 to 1.10       0.00            0.00            0.00
Costs per child
Foster Parent        0.00             0.00            0.40            0.00            0.00
Salary
Foster               0.00             0.00            0.15            0.15            0.00
Allowance
Child Allowance      0.07             0.07            0.07            0.07            0.07
Supervision          0.00             0.00            0.18            0.18            0.10
Costs
Total             1.77 to 2.47    0.87 to 1.17        0.80            0.40            0.17



Page 30
Annex 5
Romania: Child Welfare Reform Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Tahle A)
Procurement will be undertaken both by the DCP and the Judets under the oversight of
the DCP. The procurement of goods and services of the Bank financed components would be
procured in accordance to the Bank procurement guidelines. The project components not
financed by the Bank would be procured in accordance with the national regulations or the co-
financing institutions procurement regulations. The project elements, their estimated cost and
procurement methods are summarized in Table A of Annex 5. A procurement plan detailing the
packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement actions is presented in Table B of
Annex 5. Estimated dates for publication of the General Procurement Notice (GPN) is June 15,
1998, and the Project Launch Workshop is early July.
Civil works: (US$4.4 million). Civil works consists of modest rehabilitation and new
construction of up to 30 facilities. The Government will provide for any local taxes in civil
works contracts. Due to the (i) small contract values; (ii) works that are geographically scattered
and spread over time due in part by climatic conditions; and (iii) labor intensive techniques,
procurement of small scale civil works will be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response
to a written invitation. Each year, the DCP will advertise to solicit expressions of interest from
contractors in carrying out the civil works to be financed under the sub-projects. The Borrower
shall use bidding documents developed in the ECA region. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, and
relevant drawings where applicable. Short letters of invitation and a brief standard form of
contract will be reviewed and accepted by the Bank. The award shall be made to the contractor
who offers the lowest price quotation for required work, and who has the experience and
resources to successfully complete the contract.
Goods. Goods packages will be procured under the project -- multiple packages under
National Shopping (NS) totaling US$0.84 million (furniture and equipment for facilities); and
three packages under International Shopping (IS) totaling US$0.39 million (computers, scanner,
and office equipment). The aggregate amount of these packages will be US$1.23 million.
Consultant Services. Depending on types of services needed, individuals will be
engaged for design of sub-projects and training under Individual Consultant (IC) method; and
consulting firms will be engaged for auditing and public awareness services following Least Cost
Selection (LCS). Single source selection for consultants for project management and child
welfare may be permitted in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.



Page 31
Procurement schedule (Table B)
The Project Procurement Schedule is given in Table B.
Prior review thresholds (Table C)
Prior Review thresholds are given in Table C.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table D)
The allocation of the loan proceeds is given in Table D.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
SOEs will be used for all expenditures, except for any works contract above US$200,000
and for any services contract above US$ 100,000 for consulting firms and above
US$50,000 for individual consultants.
Special account:
A special account will be opened by the DCP with an authorized allocation of
US$500,000 with an initial allocation of US$200,000. Retroactive financing of up to $300,000
will be provided for eligible expenditure on civil works, goods, TA and training required for the
initiation of project activities since March 16, 1998 until effectiveness. Judets will be reimbursed
for eligible expenditures of sub-projects approved under the LIL by the DCP.



Page 32
Annex 5
Romania Child Welfare Reform Project
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$'000)
Expenditure Category                 Procurement Method                  Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
Inter-    Consultant   Other       N.B.F
national    Services
Shopping
1. Works                                 -       4,400.0'  12,400.04       16,800.0
(3,520.0)    (-)          (3,520.0)
2. Goods                   390.0         -         840.02   2,620.05        3,850.0
(315.0)                (675.0)     (-)            (990.0)
3. Consultant Services,       -       316.0        174.03   6,160.06         6650.0
Trainings & Public
Awareness
(316.0)     (174.0)     (-)            (490.0)
4. Operating Costs            -          -           -      2,200.07        2,200.0
(-)
Total                   390.0       316.0      5,414.0   23,380.0       29,500.0
(315.0)    (316.0)    (4,369.0)    (-)           (5,000.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed. This includes elements procured under parallel
cofinancing procedures and consultancies under trust funds.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
'Minor works to be procured under ECA procedures designed for small scale
civil works.
2National shopping (N.S.) comprised of furniture, equipment, supplies in
packages of approximately US$66,000 each.
Dissemination seminars, services (Broadcasting).
'Civil works funded by CEF and USAID.
'Goods funded by CEF and USAID.
6 Consultancy services and training costsfunded by various development
partners.
'Operating costs funded by the Government.



page 33                                             Table 8 p. 1 of 2
Annex 5
Romania Child Welfare Project
Table B: Procurement Schedule
Total    Procurement  Issuance of   Submission  Signing of Completion
Packages                 Cost ($'S)   Method    Invitation to Bid   of Bids    Contract  of Package
I CIVIL WORKS
a. Facilities Construction
Multiple Packages - approximately 6 (1998)  1092.00    N.S.         Oct-98        Nov-98      Dec-98     Jun-99
Multiple Packages - approximately 6 (1999)  1110.00    N.S.         Mar-99        Apr-99      May-99      Dec-99
Multiple Packages - approximately 2 (2000)  360.00     N.S.         Jan-00        Feb-00      Mar-00      Sep-00
b. Facilities Rehabilitation
Multiple Packages - approximately 6 (1998)  792.00     N.S.         Oct-98        Nov-98      Dec-98      May-99
Multiple Packages - approximately 6 (1999)  822.00     N.S.         Mar-99        Apr-99      May-99      Nov-99
Multiple Packages - approximately 2 (2000)  224.00     N.S.         Jan-00        Feb-00      Mar-00      Aug-00
Total Cost:|  4,400.00
Not N.S. - National Shopping (US$4.40M).



page 34
Annex 5
Romania Child Welfare Reform
Table B: Project Procurement Schedule
Total Cost  Procurement  Issurance of  Submission   Signing of  Completion
Package                   ($'000)     Method   Invitation to Bid   of Bids   Contract   of Package
2 GOODS
a. Furniture & Equipment for Facilities'
Multiple Packages - approximately 6 (1999)  312.00     N.S.        Mar-99       Apr-99      May-99      Jun-99
Multiple Packages - approximately 8 (2000)  528.00     N.S.        Jan-00       Feb-00      Mar-00      Sep-00
b. JUDETS
Computer & Office Equipment (1998)           135.00     I.S.        Aug-98       Sep-98      Oct-98      Nov-98
Computer & Office Equipment (1999)           150.00     I.S.        Mar-99       Apr-99      May-99      Jun-99
c. DCP
Computer Equipment & Scanner                 105.00     IS.         Aug-98       Sep-98      Oct-98      Nov-98
Total    1,230.00
3 CONSULTANT SERVICES, TRAINING &
PUBLIC AWARENESS
Design of Sub-projects                       160.00     IC          Jul-98       Aug-98      Sep-98      Dec-00
Consultants (Audit, Social)                   90.00     LCS         Jan-99       Feb-99      Mar-99      Jun-00
Training                                      66.00     IC          various      various     various     vanous
Pubic Awareness Services                     174.00     LCS         various      varous      various     various
Total     490.00
Note:
LCS - Selection Based on Least-Cost Selection (US$0.26M);
I.C. - Selection Based on Individual Consultants (US$0.23M);
N.S. - National Shopping (US$0.84M);
IS. - International Shopping (US$0.39M).
For facilities in different Judets.



Page 35
Annex 5
Romania Child Welfare Reform Project
Table C: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)            Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total
Value Subject to
.___________________   (US $ thousands)                          Prior Review
1. Works                 < $200,0001        Minor Works          First Two Contracts
2. Goods                   < $70,000        N.S.                 First Contract
< $300,000       I.S.                  First Contract
> $300,000       I.C.B.                All
3. Consultant Services,                     Individual and       All TORs
Training and Public                         Single Source
Awareness
LCS                  All contracts for firrns
exceeding $100,000
and $50,000 for
individual consultants.
Minor works to be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. There will be no works contracts above US$200,000.



Page 36
Annex 5
Romania: Child Welfare Reform Project
Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$million       Financing Percentage
1. Works                                 3.2           80% of expenditures
2. Goods                                  0.9          100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory); 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally.
3. Consultant Services                    0.4          100% of expenditures
4. Unallocated                            0.5
Total                        5.0    _



Page 37
Annex 6
Romania: Child Welfare Reform Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At draft PAD stage)
$30,000              $34,800
(as of 5/05198)
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At draft PAD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       2 months
First Bank mission (identification)             02/23/1998           02/23/1998
Appraisal mission departure                     03/16/1998           03/16/1998
Negotiations                                    04/13/1998           05/05/1998
Project Approval by Vice President              05/08/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/1998
Prepared by: DCP and Bank
Preparation assistance: Japanese PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
John Innes                                Program Team Leader
Adrian Guth                               Task Leader (Child Welfare Expert)
Angela Demas                              Operations Analyst
Maurizio Ragazzi                          Counsel
Rohit Mehta                                Senior Disbursement Officer
Francois Ettori                           Romania Resident Representative
Velayuthani Vijayaverl / Ron Venezia       Procurement Specialist
Mely Mueller                              Task Team Assistant



Page 38
Annex 7
Romania: Child Welfare Reform Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Manual
1. Draft
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Proposal for Child Welfare Strategy, IDF Grant, August 1997.
2. Proposal for Child Welfare Services, PHRD Grant, December 1997.
3. Needs Assessment and Proposed Strategy for Child Protection Issues, E.
Roberts-Schweitzer, May 1997.
C. Other
1. Child Welfare Reform Strategy, DCP, February 1998.
2. Romania, Country Assessment, UNDP, December 1997.
3. Can Romania Afford Not to? The Costs and Benefits of Implementing
Community-based Alternatives to Institutional Care. UNICEF, November
1996.
4. Proposed Strategy for a Child Welfare Initiative in Romania, William Saur,
April 1992.
5. Who is Caring for the Children? An explanatory Survey Conducted in
Hungary, Poland, Bulgaria, and Romania. J. Evans, September, 1995.
*Including electronic files.



Page 39
MOP Schedule D, 06/02/98
Annex 8
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Romania
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                              disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit      Year                Borrower                          Purpose
No.                                                                                   IBRD        IDA      Cancellations   Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 36
Active Loans
RO-PE-34213   IBRD42580    1998   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA                  GENERAL CADASTRE                  25.50         0.00             0.00         25.50         0.00       0.00
RO-PE-44614   IBRD42130    1998   ROMANIA                                SCHOOLS REHABILITATI              70.00         0.00             0.00         70.00         2.50       0.00
RO-PE-39250   IBRD41780    1997   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA                  SECOND ROADS                     150.00         0.00             0.00        144.68         -.32       0.00
RO-PE-8778    IBRD40790    1997   ROMANIA                                BUCHAREST WATER SUPP              25.00         0.00             0.00         22.63         7.63       0.00
RO-PE-8793    IBRD40960    1997   ROMANIA                                HIGHER EDUCATION                  50.00         0.00             0.00         48.50        26.67       0.00
RO-PE-8795    IBRD41760    1997   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA                  ASAL                             280.00         0.00             0.00         80.00         0.00       0.00
RO-PE-8795    IBRD41761    1997   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA                  ASAL                              70.00         0.00             0.00         65.17         0.00       0.00
RO-PE-36013   IBRD39760    1996   SNCFR                                  RAILWAY                          120.00         0.00             0.00        116.95        42.30       0.00
RO-PE-8773    IBRD39750    1996   ROMANIA                                FESAL                            170.00         0.00             0.00         20.00       100.00       0.00
RO-PE-8773    IBRD39751    1996   ROMANIA                                FESAL                              90.00        0.00             0.00         46.09       100.00       0.00
RO-PE-8773    IBRD39752    1996   ROMANIA                                FESAL                             20.00         0.00             0.00         16.52       100.00       0.00
RO-PE-8794     IBRD39360    1996   RENEL                                 POWER SECTOR REHAB.              110.00         0.00             0.00        105.04        76.39       0.00
RO-PE-8776    IBRD38490    1995                                          EMPLOY. & SOC. PROTE              55.40         0.00             0.00         54.05        36.73       0.00
RO-PE-8774     IBRD37350    1994   GOVT. OF ROMANIA                      INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT           175.00         0.00             0.00        135.15       124.17      43.67
RO-PE-8777     IBRD37230    1994   Government of Romania                 PETROLEUM SECTOR REN             175.60         0.00             0.00        134.13       113.19       0.00
RO-PE-8784      IBRD37240    1994   REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA                  EDUCATION                          50.00        0.00             0.00         38.34         5.37       0.00
RO-PE-8771      IBRD35930    1993   MOT                                  TRANSPORT                        120.00         0.00             0.00            .86       -5.14       0.00
RO-PE-8759    IBRD34090    1992   MOF                                    HEALTH SERVICES REHA             150.00         0.00             0.00         45.00        44.95      44.95
RO-PE-8772     IBRD34860    1992   ROMANIA                               PRIVATE FARMER & ENT             100.00         0.00             0.00            .66          .65      0.00
Total                                                                                                   2,006.50         0.00             0.00      1,169.27       775.09      88.62
Active Loans          Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   815.02             2,811.39            3,626.41
of which has been repaid:                    16.54            2,216.55             2,233.09
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 1,989.96               594.84            2,584.80
Amount sold                       :                  0.00               19.78                19.78
Of which repaid                :                 0.00                19.78                19.78
Total Undisbursed                 :             1,169.27                 0.00             1,169.27
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex 9                                                           Page 40
Romania at a glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central  middle- 
Romania       Asia  Income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        22.7        479    1,125
GNPpercapita 1996 (Us)                                1,440     2,180    1,750                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                               32.6      1,043    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (l%)                                        -0.4       0.3      1.4      GNP                              Gross
Labor force (lo)                                        0.1       0.5      1.8      per                            p primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)              22
Urban population (% of total population)                55         65       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        70         68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                23         26       41               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                   ..        ..       78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     ..        ..       ..Romania
Gross pnmary enrollment (% of school-age population)    94         97      104
Male                                                  94         97      105           ---- Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                93        97       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
Economic ratios*
GDP (billions US$)                              -    47.6        35.5     35.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP                40.4     33.0       25.6     25.4
Exports of goods and services/GDP               ..    22.9       27.4     26.9              Openness of economy
Gross domesticsavings/GDP                       ..    37.2       21.1     18.9
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..    35.9       21.4     18.8
Current account balance/GDP                     ..      2.9      -4.9     -6.6
Interest payments/GDP                          ..       1.1       0.8      1.4      Savings    --        --      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  ..       ..      18.7     26.4
Total debt service/exports                    0.0      18.7      11.5     13.4
Present value of debtGDP                       ..       ..       18.9
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..       67.7                           Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                -       Romania
G DP                                 4.8     -3.4      6.9        4.1      5.0
GOP           4.8     -3.4      6.9       4.1       5.0              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lower-middle-income group
GNP per capita                       4.0      -3.3     6.1        4.5      5.1
Exports of goods and services          ..     0.2     11.8        0.8      5.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                          Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                    ..        ..      20.4     19.8      60-
Industry                                       ..       ..       39.3     38.2        \
Manufacturing                                 ..
Services                                       ..       ..       40.3     42.0       0
Pnvate consumption                             ..    58.9        66.6     70.2    -30 -
General government consumption                 ..      3.9       12.2     10.9               -     GDI   -0--GDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..    18.7        31.9     33.4
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agrculture                                      -      2.4        4.8      1.4      20
Industry                                       ..    -6.5         9.4      1.6
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..                          0 -
Services                                       ..    -5.0         5.7     10.0              91   92   93   94   95   96
Private consumption                            ..      0.7       12.3      9.2      20 -
General government consumption                 ..      4.0       -2.4     -8.7
Gross domestic investment                      ..    -3.2         1.5      3.3    -4
Imports of goods and services                  ..      2.7       14.1      7.0             .       Exports  Imports
Gross national product                        4.7      -3.5       5.9      4.0
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 9                                                           Page 4t
Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996 
Domestic prices                                                                     Inflation (%h)
(% change)                                                                         300-
Consumer prices                                          ..      32.0     38.8     2
Implicit GDP deflator                                   0.4      35.7     45.6
100-
Government finance
(% of GDP)                                                                           0 --        2 _4    95  9_
Current revenue                                 ..    48.9       32.0     29.6             91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                          ..    29.7        2.7       1.4             -     GDP def. -Q--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    12.1        -2.6     -3.9
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                  10,174     7,882    8,238      19,000
Textiles                                       ,.       .      2,065    1,985
Metals                                        ..       ..    1,513    1,310
Chemicals                                     ..        ..    1,001    1,145       10000 -
Total imports (cif)                             ..   8,402      9,487   10,368
Fuel and energy                               .. 4,753        1,160    1,265r                          i         l
Capital goods                                 3. 3,489        7,509    8,211
Export pnce index (1993=100)                    ..       ..       106      108            9o  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1993=100)                   .                 105      104                 :iExports   ug Imports
Ternms of trade (1993=100)                      ..       ..       102      104
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996                              ___--_____-_
(millions US$)                                                                      Current account balance to GDP ratio 1%)
Exports of goods and services               5,812   10,920      9,333    9,554
Imports of goods and services               5,858    8,926    11,172   11,868          90  91  92   93   94   95  96
Resource balance                              -46    1,994    -1,839   -2,314
-2 -
Net income                                    -89     -613       -262     -401
Net current transfers                           0        0        369      379
.4 -
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers           -135    1,381     -1,732   -2,336    -6 -
Financing items (net)                         103   -1,698      1,541    3,216
Changes in net reserves                        32      317        191     -880    -8 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           904    1,447      1,579    2,103
Conversion rate (locallUS$)                    ..       ..   2,033.4  3,085.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          211    7,008      6,653    9,374
IBRD                                         19    1,633       844    1,009                             A
IDA                                           0        0          0        0               G           1009
2092     --.        C
Total debt service                              1    2,064        967    1,349                                 673
IBRD                                          0      274        53        63
IDA                                           0        0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                 D
Official grants                               0        0         30        0                            -      1507
Official creditors                           30      -61       698       737
Private creditors                             0     -645       267        ..             F
Foreign direct investment                     0        0       419       410            2448               E
Portfolio equity                              0        0          1        .                              1645
World Bank program
Commitments                                 160        0       340       475      A- IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                19       49       129       227      B - IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Prncipal repayments                           0      146          0        0      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                     19      -97        129      227
Interest payments                             0      127        53        63
Net transfers                                19     -225        76       164
Development Economics. 1996 extemal debt and resource flows data are staff estimates (preliminary).                  8/15/97



Page 42
Annex 10
Romania Child Welfare Reform Project
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
Country:                         Romania                  Project ID No:          RO-PE44595
Project Name:                    Child Welfare            Total Project Cost:     US$5.0 million
Reform Project (LIL)
Appraisal Date:                  03/16/98
Board Date:                      04/24/98                 Task Team Leader:       John Innes
Managing Division                ECSHD                    Sector                  Social Protection
Est. date for receipt of EA by Bank:  N/A
EA Category (A/B/C):             C                        Date Assigned:          04/01/98
Date Sheet Prepared/Updated 04/01/1998
(Please do not leave any items blank: use "N/A" or "To be developed" when appropriate)
Major Project Conmonents: (presents description of project components)
I. Community-Based Child Welfare Services: This component will support sub-projects proposed by the
Judets to develop alternative child care arrangements to the large state-run institutions and strategies to
prevent the abandonment of children.
II. Street Children Initiative: This component will support NGO and local government initiatives to
improve the welfare, security and societal re-integration of street children.
III. Institution Building, Monitoring & Evaluation: This component will strengthen the institutional
capacity of the DCP through training and TA and support the monitoring and evaluation of the LIL.
Major Environmental Issues: (describes major environmental issues identified or suspected in project)
No negative environmental effects are anticipated. The Project will follow accepted Bank procedures.
Other Environmental Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
There are no environmental issues involved.
ProposedActions: (describes actions proposed to mitigate environmental issues described in project)
N/A
JastiflcatonlRationalefor Environnental Category: (reasons for env. category selected & explanation of any changes from initial
classification)
No environmental impact is anticipated.
Status of Category A Environmental Ass essment: (presents EA start-up date, EA first draft, and current status)
N/A
Rewarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower has
given permission to release EA, etc)
N/A
Signed by:                                                Signed by:
kJohn Innes                                        ,            ichele   Nevers
Program Team Leader                                           Sect Leader,   ionent



Page 43
Annex 11
Romania Child Welfare Reform Project
Child Welfare Issues in Romania
Post-Communist Romania inherited a large number of institutionalized children. Despite
improvements the number of children in child care institutions has been on the rise. At the
request of the DCP, a census of all children living in residential facilities, including disabled
children in special boarding schools was carried out in 1997. According to the census 98,872
children live in 653 residential facilities. That is approximately 1.7 percent of the total population
of children between the ages of 0-18. This does not account for street children and those
abandoned in medical facilities, of which there are approximately 3,000 on the streets and 3,262
young children abandoned in health facilities.
About 41 percent of the children in institutions are there because their families have
socio-economic problems, while 56.4 percent are there for medical reasons. Of those in
institutions, 97 percent have parents and only 3 percent are orphans. For those children with
parents 51.6 percent do not stay in contact with them for more than six months. Although for the
most part these children have been abandoned, their formal legal status is unclear and this makes
their de-institutionalization, placement in foster care or adoption extremely difficult. Only 3,400
children living in institutions are formally declared abandoned by the court, therefore, only these
children are freed for adoption. Additionally, about 2.6 percent of institutionalized children do
not have a birth certificate, and most of them are over one year old.
The care for very small institutionalized children is of an excessive medical nature. Very
long periods of hospitalization (sometimes for life) are extremely harmful, causing handicaps and
chronic disease. Their health status indicators show a high incidence of infant mortality, anemia
and macro-nutrient deficiencies.
The number of children abandoned in various hospital units is not yet known. They
include many children without any form of identification and some are nameless. These children
are thus outside the protection system and have access only to low-quality medical care which is
sometimes administered unnecessarily.
Non-disabled children between the ages of 3-18 live in Children's Homes (Casa de
copii). They are poorly prepared for any form of independent life, and most face serious
difficulties of being integrated into a community, especially if they leave the homes after the age
of 18.
One of the most vulnerable groups of institutionalized children are the very severely
handicapped ones living in Hospital Homes (camine-spital). The basic needs of these children are
rarely met and they receive no rehabilitation. Their chances of leaving the institutions and being
reintegrated into a community are extremely limited. However, an estimated 20 percent of
children living in Hospital Homes are not disabled and could be reintegrated into the community.
In recent years many efforts were made at the local level to develop community-based
alternative services to institutionalization. A successful model of social services for families with



Page 44
children in crises was developed by NGOs and local authorities with financial and technical
support from UNICEF, USAID and the European Union. Recently the experience gained through
these projects was incorporated into a new legislative framework whose main objective is the
reform of the whole child protection system. This includes great emphasis on the development of
community-based alternative services for children at risk of being institutionalized.
Another issue is the growing number of street children, currently estimated at 3,000.
Many children are sent by their families to beg in the streets as a means of supporting the entire
family. Abuse of these children ranges from younger children being exploited and controlled by
gangs of older children, to those being forced into prostitution and sex tourism.
Multiple types of social problems like domestic violence, broken homes, alcoholism and
crime, identified as the main cause of the institutionalization of children, were all aggravated by
increased poverty. At least 60 percent of surveyed cases were classified under one of these
categories. It was found that more children entering institutions were sent by their own families
than from maternity units and pediatric hospitals.
Type of institution                                       Number of children
Nurseries (Leagane)                                             9,309
Center for Minors (Centrul de primire a minorilor)                379
Hospital Homes (Camine-spital)                                  4,473
Children's homes with/without schools (Case de copii)          35,165
Schools for Children With Special Needs (all grades,           47,107
including pre-school)
Other types of institutions                                     2,439
TOTAL                                                          98,872
Source: National Commission for Statistics



MAP SECTION



IBED 2871 0
22t                                                 2A4                                                  226
i '  _     UKRAINE - .                                                                                  R O MA N I A
48-
ELEVATIONS ABOVE 500 METERS
K   SOTQSAN/                               o~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED CITIES
H  U  NGARAY  VA                                                                                                                                             Boo                        .                          COUNTY (JUDET/ CENTERS
A    ~ ~ ~ ~  ~        ~       ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -L- EXPRESSWAY
MAJOR ROADS
o Kishi.                  OTHER PORTS
T.. 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d.pw ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
Z.1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otCOUNTY JUIDE) BOUNDARIES
1 Piotro- ~~~~~~~~                         -  ~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
YUGOSLAVIA~ARA                                                                                                                                                 U o# Nrivtn                                      2   ST (X 'T   ITT1       Nm
T. 8,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                   ilo                                 IE
(Serbia/Mo nieneg ro)                                                     (          Crlv                     0  L<        j _ T                                                                 S.2\  c          ModoidloX         * tCnsu
_X42   rhis m p wnsproducedbyehe  J >  ~                   Cqrucam   E JZ         199           /{ ~           1 62        _       /         Silistr=o .*         CONS/VA   TAv                    
M hiopoospgnUaodooeWodhysl.                            r            foi                                5      >I            g    ~      /r_                              ooe\> 
rboundorsTteninPorm,emovionohonj                         f        -cl..   -                                            Iemdi9N              |Gugi6/\   
thisn,opdo nos imnpA ontEheponoo!                                                       ,          .       t    b.)                                                                    oV n<pMnui
rh. WonIdESonB&o7p,onp judgmm / d unn.nsr  !f/V- 
on oMI.g,oIsIooooof nTiernicry,or                                                                          .L       t /.~                                                                                    To >r V:rn:o
ony endor mmen.nor occepsonc oo                    '                                                                           mnNt ;_
rT.        s                              sr                                                    24    B U LGARI AA                                                                                             28 
0 I0    20   3060MAT 199i



