Report No. PID6669
Project Name                     Romania-Child Welfare Reform
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Social Protection
Project ID                       ROPE55495
Borrower                         Romania
Implementing Agency              Department of Child Protection (DCP)
Piata Victoriei Nr. 1
Sector 1, Bucharest
Tel:    40-1-222-9385
Fax:    40-1-614-3400
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           July 17, 1998
Appraisal Date                   March 16, 1998
Board Date                       June 24, 1998
Country and Sector Background
The Romanian Government has become increasingly concerned about the
economic and social costs of the current child protection system. Under the
leadership of President Constantinescu, it has made a commitment to implement
fundamental reforms to this system in order to better meet children's basic
needs and enable them to become productive members of society.
1.      Objectives
The project's development objective is to test and promote community-based
child welfare approaches as sustainable and cost-effective alternatives to
institutionalized child care and to test approaches to reintegrate street
children in Bucharest more fully into society.
2.      Description
The project will support the efforts of the Romanian Government's
Department for Child Protection (DCP) to reform the child-care and the child
protection system, by: (i) reducing the flow of children into institutions;
(ii) improving the quality of care for institutionalized children; (iii)
developing alternative care systems; and (iv) assisting older
institutionalized children adapt to the community as productive citizens. It
will also focus on street children in Bucharest, a group particularly at-risk
in terms of poverty and social deprivation. The project would build upon
existing small-scale initiatives supported by other donors and NGOs and the
existing implementation structures within the DCP.
The project has the following components:
The Community-Based Child Welfare Services component will help the DCP to
identify, finance and monitor sub-projects designed to prevent the abandonment
and institutionalization of children, the de-institutionalization of children,
and improvement of the quality of residential care through alternative



community-based services. These could include: (i) family counseling and
support; (ii) parental education; (iii) mother and baby units; (iv) day care
centers; (v) small group homes; and (vi) foster care training services.
Sub-projects will be identified through a competitive selection process.
County/local authorities will be invited to propose sub-projects to the DCP
according to specific selection criteria. Sub-projects would cover a cluster
of integrated and complementary activities and services for child reform.
The Street Children Initiative. A Center for Coordination and Information on
Street Children was established recently in Bucharest to share information
among NGOs and the municipalities on street children. This center has
facilitated the tracking and case handling of street children, reduced
overlapping services, and provided a means for enhanced collaboration with
other government-funded social services, police and judicial entities. Under
the project, the Government will establish six additional centers in
Timisoara, Iasi, Constanta, Craiova, Brasov and one other city to be
determined.
A second subcomponent will support the DCP and the Municipality of Bucharest
to work in partnership with NGOs on sub-projects to provide improved services
for street children and reduce their number through family and social
reintegration. Services could include: (i) night and day shelters; (ii)
counseling and legal advise; (iii) learning/educational facilities; and (iv)
medical assistance.
NGOs will be invited to propose sub-projects to the DCP and the Municipality
of Bucharest according to selection criteria.
The Institution Building, Monitoring and Evaluation component will strengthen
the capability of the DCP. It will include training, a public awareness
program, and monitoring and evaluation of all project activities.
3.      Financing
The Bank has provided a US$5 million loan. The total project cost is
US$29.5 million and will be financed as follows: the Government (US$3.3
million); the World Bank (US$5.0 million); the Council of Europe Social
Development Fund (US$10.9 million); The European Children's Trust (US$2.7
million); USAID and other bilateral agencies (US$6.3 million); and NGOs
(US$1.3 million).
4.      Implementation and Coordination
Implementation. The project will be implemented over a period of 42
months (1998-2002). The Executing Agencies are: (i)The Department for Child
Protection (DCP) which will serve as the Implementing Agency for project
activities, and have overall responsibility for project implementation,
management, and coordination, and (ii) at the local county (Judet) level, the
Specialized Public Services for the Protection of Children's Rights (SPSPCR),
which will implement small-scale project activities in their respective
counties.
Coordination. The DCP will serve as focal point for all communications with
the Bank and other involved parties. Procurement will be undertaken both by
the DCP and the Judets under the oversight of the DCP.
5.      Sustainability
The sustainability of this project is based upon the experience gained under
the pilot schemes which have demonstrated that community-based services are
-2 -



more efficient than the existing institutional system. There are considerable
risks. They relate the lack of experience and managerial capacity at the
national and local levels, insufficient community participation, resistance
from the existing institutional structures, and lack of sufficient funding at
the national and local levels. The innovative nature of this project and its
integrated monitoring and evaluation mechanisms permit the kind of testing and
experimentation that are essential in the search for approaches to mitigate
the risks and to identify cost effective and viable solutions for the reform
of the child welfare system.
6. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Ongoing Government and Development Partner Efforts in Child Welfare
within Romania. The existing safety nets do not provide the necessary support
to families in need and at risk. In addition to poverty, the main reason for
abandonment and institutionalization of children is linked to the lack of
community-based resources to address the needs and the lack of alternative
care solutions. Since 1993, NGOs have been helping to develop alternative
child welfare services. Unfortunately, most of these approaches were
relatively small scale, albeit important pilot interventions. In most cases,
they lacked an integrated approach to the child welfare problem. At the same
time, local authorities were not sufficiently involved in project design and
implementation.
The project will address these issues by promoting an integrated
approach, encouraging local (Judet) authorities to participate in a
competitive selection process (which will also ensure quality of project
design). The project will also help strengthen institutional capacity at the
central and local levels through TA and training, and build on NGO experience.
6.      Poverty Category
Program of Targeted Interventions.
7.      Environmental Aspects
The project has been classified as C, as the project has no substantive
environmental issues.
8.      Program Objective Categories
PA - Poverty Reduction.
9.      Contact Point:           John Innes, ECSHD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-5826
Fax No.:         (202) 477-3387
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 31, 1998.
- 3 -



