Page  1
January 11, 2000
His Excellency 
Decebal Traian Remes 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Bucharest, Romania
Re:
ROMANIA:  Loan No. 4362 RO (Child Welfare Reform Project)
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to your letter dated December 3, 1999, requesting certain amendments to 
the Loan Agreement for the above Project, dated July 15, 1998. I am pleased to inform 
you that the Bank agrees to your request. Therefore, we propose to amend the Loan 
Agreement as follows:
1.
Paragraph (i) of Part B of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read 
as follows: “(i) Provisions of works, goods, training and consultants services to 
support the Borrower in identifying, financing and monitoring Sub-Projects aimed at 
the reduction of the number of street children through family and social 
reintegration, and the provision of shelters, learning and educational facilities, 
counseling and legal advice, medical assistance, and other services for street 
children.”
2.
Paragraph C.3 of Section I of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
“3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $4,400,000 equivalent, shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the 
basis of price quotations obtained from at 
least 3 (three) domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. 
Contracts shall be placed on one of two bases:
(a)
for contracts of a maximum duration of 5 months, fixed price 
contracts shall be 
awarded, on either a lump sum or unit rate basis.
(b)
for contracts of longer duration (longer than 5 months), unit rate 
contracts shall 
be awarded, with a price adjustment clause specifying that prices 
may be adjusted using indices 
which have been most recently published and which are 
available at the time of payment 
calculation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Bank, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the  lowest price quotation, and who has the experience and 
resources, determined through 
postqualification, to complete the 
contract successfully.”
Please indicate your agreement to the above amendments to the Loan Agreement by 
signing, dating and returning to us the attached copy of this letter. Upon your 
signature, this amendment will enter into force as of the date indicated above.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Andrew Vorkink
Country Director
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED
Page  2
ROMANIA
By /s/ Decebal Train Remes
Date:
February 2, 2000
bcc and cleared with:  Aly Abu-Akeel (LEGEC); Kenneth Miller (LOAEL)
bcc:
Messrs./Mmes.  Pieter Stek (EDS19); John Innes; Myla Taylor Williams; 
Suman Mehra; Angela Demas, Adrian Guth, Gabriela Doina Manea; Agnes Nuval  
