Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8958
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE OPERATION
(CREDIT 1428-MAI)
AUGUST 13, 1990
Country Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
r%is documeut ha a efidcted dibstbutio and may be ued by reeplent only in the perfomnme of
their offkic  dues. its contefnts ny no odthwise be dicosed wihout Wodd Dank authorhzatio



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
Annual Average ExchanRe Rates
(Kwacha per US Dollars)
Year           Kwacha per US Dollar
1984                1.413
1985                1.719
1986                1.861
1987                2.209
1988                2.561
As of June 1989           2.73
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADMARC   - Agricultural Development and Marketing Corp.
DSB      =  Department of Statutory Bodies
DPMT     =  Department of Personnel, Management and Training
ESCOM    =  Electricity Supply Commission of Malavi
IDP      = Institutional Development Project
ILO      =  International Labor Organization
MDC      = Malawi Development Corporation
MOF      -  Ministry of Finance
SAL      =  Structural Adjustment Operation
TRA      =  Tobacco Research Authority
UNDP     = United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
ONzce i ov.cUvGneami
Opifawia EvAhaaban
August 13, 1990
M-ORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Malawi - Second
Technical Assistance OReration (Credit 1428-MAI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Halawi - Second Technical Assistance Operation (Credit
1428-MAI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
I Thisdtuc nt ha aoeidabb itiitandrmaycbeausedibyimwithsu ion Btanpfannuoe|
|of thir offieW dutib Its cwontsn may nUot Krwh be dwWekd wkhout Wodd Bank a_ lmi



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
MALAWI
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit 1428.MAI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . .  .       . . . .           .  ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I.    INTRODUCTION ....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
TI:  ECONOMIC BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
III. OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN OF THE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
IVs   THE ROLE OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
The Second Technical Assistance Credit . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Project Supervision and Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Project Results.. . . . . . . . . .  . 7
V:    LESSONS FROM EXPERIENCE.     ..        ..........    11
Bank and Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . .                     14
Lessons Learned ..                .. . . . 14
Reconimendations .16
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE. . . . . . . . 17
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Credit Data        .. . . . ..   .     ..         . .   1
Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits  . . . . . . . . . . 19
Credit Disbursements.. . . . . . .   20
ANNEX
Seven Case Studies on Individual Components of
the Second Technical Assistance Operation . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
NALAVI
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit 1428-MAI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is a report on the completion of the Second Technical
Assistance Project in Malawi for which a credit (1428-MAI) of SDR 1.4
million (US$1.5 million equivalent) was approved on December 20, 1983. The
Borrower was the Government of Malawi and the credit was closed on June 30,
1989, two years behind schedule. The credit was fully disbursed.
This PCR was prepared by staff in the Country Operations
Division of the Southern Africa Depar-ment. In February 1990 the Bank sent
Parts I and III to the Government with the request for their comments and
Part II of the report. Neither comments nor Part II were received from the
Government.
This report has relied heavily on a case study of the First and
Second Technical Assistance Projects dated May 22, 1989 and carried out by
OED in conjunction with an Evaluation Study of Free Standing Technical
Assistance in Support of Public Sector Management in Sub-Saharan Africa. In
addition, material from Bank files, visits to Malawi and discussions with
Bank staff formerly connected with the project were used in the
preparation.



- ii -
MAL&VI
SECOND TECNIChAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit 1428-MAI
PROJECT CO)GLETION REPORT
Evaluation Suzmsarv
Obiectives
i.        The second Technical Assistance Credit was approved by the Board
of Executive Directors on December 20, 1983 in conjunction with the Second
Structural Adjustment Credit. The purpose of the credit was to support the
Government of Malawi's Structural Adjustment Program, and, given the wide
scope and varied nature of the SAL, TA II was also a diverse project. The
Government'c adjustment program is described in paras. 4-14. The TA
project, pre-defined five components and left a sixth component open for
'other studies associated with the Second Structural Adjustment
Project...'.
Ui.       The five specific components of the project were: (A)
Strengthening the energy planning capabilities of the Economic Planning
Division of the Borrower's Office of the President and Cabinet, including
training; (B) Carrying out by the Tobacco Research Authority (TRA) of a
pilot fuelwood savings program; (C) Carrying out of an electric power
tariff study by the Borrower's Electric Supply Commission; (D)
Strengthening of the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation's
financial management capabilities; and (E) Strengthening the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance's debt management capabilities, including training and
acquisition of equipment;
iii.      Six other studies associated with the Second Structural
Adjustment Project were carried out. some of quite substantial volume
(cost), others quite small: (Fl) Agricultural Diversification Study
(Analysis of the viability of a proposed agricultural credit institution
for the estate sub-sector); (F2) Comprehensive Human Resources Study
(Manpower Survey); (F3) Study on (the revision of) the code for government
procurement; (F4) to (F6)s Financing parts of project preparation
activities for the proposed Institutional Development Project (IDP) (short-
term contract for at expert in preparation of the Malawi Institute of
Management component, short-term contract for a second expert in a similar
context and financing of 16 cases of training abroad for personnel of the
Ministry of Finance.) Details of the individual components are given in
paras. 16-18 and the attached annex.
Imnlementation Experience
iv.       On the Government's side, the overall project was under the
supervision of the Ministry of Finance and, on the Bank's side, overall
supervision was under the Country Programs Division and then the Country
Operations Division after the reorganization. The various subcomponents
were supervised by technical people in appropriate divisions both within
the Government and the Bank. Given the varied nature of the subcomponents,
this allocation across various groups made sense, but it complicated
coordination of activities and decreased central control and
responsibility. Implementation of subprojects varied greatly and is
described in the Annex. The Bank supervised the overall project three
times in six years, May 1984, July 1986 and July 1988. Each supervision



- iii -
was done by a different staff member. In addition numerous supervisions of
subprojects were carried out, often in conjunction with other tasks in the
field. On Government's side the project was under the Finance Officer in
charge of dealing with the World Bank and it did not receive much attention
or supervision. Still, on the whole most of the subcomponents were
implemented successfully. The project was extended twice and closed two
years later than originally scheduled.
Results
v.   Results varied from subproject to subproject.  The many different
systems of delivering know-how led to widely differing results. (See paras
23-28.) While support for the country's structural adjustment was the
project's primary goal, and here the project was mostly successful, one
must also assess the institution building aspects of the project as well.
Here it did not do as well. The Bank's assistance included a wide spectrum
of relatively small technical assistance components, greatly differing in
their objectives, means of delivery, and comprehensiveness of the resources
provided. Only for some of the components one can see a fairly close link
to the policies of Structural Adjustment. Problems of coordination,
personnel management, extent of use of local professionals, and
insufficient planning and supervision hurt some of the subprojects.
Sustainability
vi.       The best way to ensure that the adjustment process is sustained,
is to help to build up the Government's capacity and willingness to
*internalize" the process of policy reform as quickly as possible; in other
words, to ensure that the country accepts the adjustment program as its own
and not the Bank's, and that it is designed by the country itself. This,
so far, has been the least successful aspect of the adjustment process.
For the technical assistance subprojects, sustainability is defined as the
recipient organizational unit being maintained after the end of technical
assistance, and the local professionals trained under the project remain
available with this unit for the work still to be done. It only can apply
where positive short-medium-term effects have been achieved, i.e., where a
professionally sound output has been produced and has been accepted by the
recipient institution and where some training and transfer effects have
taken place. Unfortunately, the subprojects have many examples of non-
sustainability. Even when certain training effects were achieved during
the study, such effects often were not sustainable, with the local
professionals who had participated in project having moved on to other,
non-related activities or for overseas training. There were cases where
sustainable effects are likely to be achieved within the target group, but
often these were not public institutions. *(See paras 43-45.)
Findings and Lessons Learned
vii.      Evaluation of the overall project is difficult because the
various components differed so from each other and because in many of the
cases there were no documents that outlined clearly the objectives and
targets. Also some of the components had very short term objectives, while
others were more of a longer term, institution building nature. The short
term projects could be judged successful or not at this time, but for the



- iv -
long-term projects, a final judgement may need more time to be rendered.
In all cases though, it should be kept in mind that the major purpose of
the TA II project was to help the Government in carrying out its adjustment
program. In this regard the lack of predetermined objectives and the
availability of uncommitted funds added flexibility to the project which
was useful as new needs were identified over the course of the SAL
implementation. Often unforeseen events, both external shocks and internal
difficulties, create the need for additional studies or the recruitment of
either short-term or long-term consultants and experts. Funding for these
needs is often required on short notice and the TA II project was well-
placed in this regard. With hindsight, of course, the priority of what
were seen once as pressing needs may later be questioned. For example the
training courses taken by the staff in the Ministry of Finance should not
have been approved without a comprehensive staffing and training program.
Both the Bank and the Government failed to put the technical assistance
needs into a longer term context. Also support to a broad-based SAL led to
an overly diffuse TA project. Just as the adjustment operations have
become more focussed, so must future technical assistance to Government if
it is to be effective.
viii.     The evaluation of the Third SAL concluded that the adjustment
program has had limited success in insulating the economy from exogenous
factors. A lesson emanating from this experience is that the assumption
underlying the three SALs that the constraints and distortions in the
Malawian economy were relatively mild, and that with successful
implementation of broad measures, a sufficient supply response could be
achieved, appears to have been too optimistic. The Bank has come to
recognize that the constraints to growth are much more deep-seated than
previously realized and the Government's ability to implement an adjustment
program is not as strong as we had thought. Administratively and
politically the Government has not been able to formulate or implement the
adjustment program as quickly as anticipated. This implies that the
technical assistance supplied in these areas was not sufficient or
adequately absorbed and retained. The adjustment program issues are now
being addressed through the design of much more focused operations,
increased emphasis on key supply bottlenecks and efforts to strengthen the
administrative ability of the Government and key development institutions.
ix.       Future technical assistance oriented to institutional
development should try to avoid or to minimize some disadvantages of the
Bank's present technical assistance: namely the tendency towards a
'blueprint approach' (which is more suitable for capital projects than for
assistance to social processes), and the Bank's insufficient supervision of
technical assistance projects and sub-projects. More molding of the
project as both sides learn from the experience of implementing the project
is needed. Regularized supervision of both the overall project and
possible subprojects should be implemented.
x.        Future technical assistance should concentrate on fields where
the Bank has a strong comparative advantage over other donors (for example,
projects which help develop macro and micro economic analysis capability).
Project components should be as closely related as possible. Unidentified
components could be developed during the implementation of the project, but
extra funds should not be looked upon by both sides as free resources to be



- v -
used in an uncoordinated way. It seems more appropriate to organize the
assistance country or sector-wise with one or a few major partner
institutions being involved not only administratively but also
professionally. Clearly an institutional development strategy needs to be
devised along with economic policy.
xi.       Assistance complementing SALs should not be given in the form of
free-standing multi-sectoral "umbrella' agreements, but are better to be
integrated into the SAL program and project itself. Just as the Government
must feel it owns' the adjustment program, so must it own the technical
assistance that goes with it to help in implementation. Strengthening of
key institutions is a key component of adjustment, but given its longer
term nature, it should probably be put into separate institutional
development projects. In turn, these ID projects should be phased to
complement the priorities identified in the adjustment program.



MALAWI
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit 1428-MAX
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Second Technical Assistance Operation was approved by the
Board of Executive Directors on December 20, 1983. It was presented with
the Second Structural Adjustment (SAL II) operation and had been processed
in parallel with SAL II. Its raison d'etre was to support the structural
adjustment program, and given the wide scope and varied nature of the SAL,
TA II was also a diverse project. The Agreement on TA II provided for an
IDA Credit in various currencies equivalent to 1.4 million SDR on standard
IDA terms (0.752 interest, repayment over 50 years including a grace period
of ten years). Schedule 1 of the Agreement specified three categories of
items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit: (1) vehicles,
equipment and office supplies (230,000 SDR); (2) consultants' services and
training (990.000 SDR); (3) unallocated (180,000 SDR). Schedule 2 of the
Agreement gave a description of the project, pre-defining 5 components and
leaving a sixth component open for 'other studies associated with the
Second Structural Adjustment Project...'.
2.        TA I and II were evaluated as case studies in a recent
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) Evaluation Study of Free-Standing
Technical Assistance in Support of Public Sector Management in Sub-Saharan
Africa. This Project Completion Report draws heavily on this document,
especially for the factual data on the project, but it pree'nts its own
conclusions and lessons learned, which differ in some respects from those
reached in the OED Evaluation Study.
3.        This technical assistance project will be evaluated in the
context of the Structural Adjustment Program that it was supporting. In
June 1987, the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department issued an evaluation
of the first two SALs and the first TA project 1/, which contains extensive
background information on the nature of the economic and financial
difficulties that led to the adoption of the structural adjustment program
of which SAL II and TA I1 are parts. This report, therefore, gives only a
brief summary of this background. In addition a Projection Completion
Report on the Third Structural Adjustment Operation was issued in June 1989
and this report has drawn on that document also.
4.        Initially, it was envisaged to assist Malawi's structural
adjustment program with a sequence of five SALs of a relatively general
nature, complemented with specific technical assistance and project
lending. During implementation of the adjustment program, however, certain
1/ Report No. 6833 'Malawi - First/Second Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit,'
Operations Evaluation Department, June 12, 1987.



weaknesses of the BanX's general approach became apparent, as a result of
which the Bank has not continued its general, broad approach after SAL III,
but has instead concentrated on more narrowly focused sectoral adjustment
operations. Similarly, while there was a broad technical assistance
component in SAL III to support the Adjustment Program, as TA I and II had
supported SALs I and II, the Bank has since shifted to a more focused
approach to technical assistance. An Institutional Development Project,
which concentrates on a small number of public sector management issues,
was approved by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors on June 13, 1989.
II. ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
5.        From Independence in 1964 until the late 1970s, the Malawian
economy grew at a satisfactory average rate of about 5.5 percent a year.
The leading sectors were estate agriculture, producing such export crops as
tea, tobacco and sugar, and agro-industries and textiles. What budgetary
and balance of payments difficulties occurred during that period, remained
fairly well manageable. The adverse impact of the first oil shock in 1973
was generally offset by rising export prices.
6.        Malawi's economic growth in that period was stimulated by
pragmatic economic policies. The Government had adopted an outward-looking
strategy, based on agriculture and private sector initiative. Foreign
investors were welcome, and fiscal policies were conservative and prudent.
Although economic control mechanisms, such as wage and price controls and
exchange regulations were in place, they were used relatively unobtrusively
and were judged not to have caused significant distortions in the
allocation of resources.
7.        From about 1978 on, however, a number of external and internal
factors combined to cause serious setbacks to the economy. A generally
unfavorable development of prices for Malawi's export crops, and the rise
in import prices associated with world inflation after the second oil shock
in 1979 led to an unprecedented fall of 40 percent in Malawi's terms of
trade between 1977 and 1980. Droughts in 1980 and 1981 caused declines in
agricultural production and export volumes, and forced the country to
import maize. At the same time, rebel activity in Mozambique caused
serious disruptions of rail traffic to the ports of Beira and Nacala, on
which Malawi had traditionally relied for its external trade. Developing
longer alternative routes brought sharply increased external transport
costs. Also, in the late 19709, there was a reversal in the Government's
conservative policies. Large pay increases led to increases in recurrent
expenditures without commensurate revenue increases, and major public
investments of a nonproductive character were undertaken, financed, in
part, by non-concessional borrowing.
8.        As a result of all this, the deficit on the balance of payments
current account increased from 8-9 percent of GDP in the mid 1970s to about
20 percent in 1978-80. The debt service ratio rose from 7 to 26 percent
between 1977 and 1981. Foreign reserves declined to precarious levels.
The Government's budgetary deficit rose from 7-8 percent of GDP in the mid
1970s to more than 16 percent in 1981. GDP showed declines in real terms
in both 1980 and 1981.



- 3 -
9.        Recognizing the unsustainable nature of the external and
internal deficits, and eager to restore growth in the economy, the
Government prepared, in consultation with the IMF and the Bank, a medium-
term stabilization and adjustment program. Restoring financial equilibrium
and improving demand management were considered the most pressing needs at
the time. It had also become apparent that certain structural weaknesses
in the economy had to be overcome before sustained growth could resume.
First, the growth of agriculture had been mainly in the estate sector,
making the country vulnerable to wide fluctuations in prices of the three
main export crops. Second, in spite of substantial foreign-assisted
attempts at rural development, smallholder supply response had failed to
materialize, largely, it was thought, owing to low producer prices. Third,
formal and informal price controls reduced incentives in the productive
sectors. Fourth, administration and management of the public sector,
central government and parastatals alike, had weakened in recent years and
needed considerable strengthening if it were to deal with the difficult
financial and economic situation.
III. OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN OF THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
10.       Although initially the Government attempted to bridge the
growing financial gaps by increased external borrowing, it soon became
clear that more stringent measures were needed. Beginning in 1979, the
Government undertook a number of short-term demand management measures.
These were supported by a series of programs with the IMF largely aimed at
reducing both balance of payments and budgetary deficits. Performance
criteria involved phased ceilings on total domestic credit and on net bank
credit to the Government, as well as a limit on Government-guaranteed
borrowing. Specific measures included increases in taxes and duties on
imported and domestically produced goods and the use of an active exchange
rate policy. The Government was encouraged to seek debt relief.
11.       In designing the SALs, close cooperation was maintained with the
IMF. The strategies adopted in the first two SALs addressed four main
areas of the economy: the balance of payments through renewed export
growth, diversification and savings on imported energy; price incentives
and incomes; resource management; and institutional improvements. As, in
spite of the economic difficulties, the economy was judged to be relatively
free of major distortions in any particular field, the SAL programs were
broad-based with simultaneous actions on several fronts to enhance
efficient resource allocation in the produlctive sectors, and to improve
efficiency in supporting institutions, including the Government itself.
12.       The program under SAL II was more concrete than that under SAL I
with, among other things, major policy reforms in two key areas. First,
decreasing the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation's
(ADMARC) implicit taxation of the smallholders sector with the
implementation of producer price increases, and, second, improving the
management and achieving restructuring of the private sector conglomerate
Press Holdings and other key institutions in the economy.



-4..
13.       At the time SAL III was initiated, it was still difficult to
make a firm judgment on the accomplishments under the first two phases of
the program. The implementation record of SALs I and II was mixed. Mach
of the implementation met with some delays or was initially less than
agreed, which led to postponements of six months of release of the second
tranches of both SALs. Nevertheless, there were the development and
utilization of a mechanism for determining relative crop price levels, the
removal of most price controls, the rationalization of budget preparation,
and the difficult steps that were taken in the restructuring of major
parastatals and Press Holdings. A Department of Statutory Bodies (DSB) was
established to oversee the commercial parastatals.
14.       Although there was not yet any clear evidence of a sustained
supply response, the economy showed hopeful signs of recovery during SAL I
and II. In the period 1982-84, GDP grew by more than 4 percent a year on
average. The balance of payments current account deficit remained high
through 1983, but then declined sharply to about 2 percent of GDP. The
Government's budgetary deficit fell from 16 percent in 1981 to 8 percent in
1984. Although demand management measures had started to take effect, much
of the economic and financial improvement had been due to exogenous
factors, such as normal recovery from losses caused by earlier droughts, an
improvement in terms of trade led by record world prices of tea in 1984,
and an increase in export volumes, as large accumulated stocks of tobacco
and sugar could be moved.
IV. THE ROLE OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
15.       When preparing the first SAL, the Bank recognized that it lacked
sufficient specific knowledge to design a program with the desired degree
of prescriptive detail. Under SAL I the Bank had basically sought and
obtained government commitment to increase producer prices for agricultural
products, increase budgetary allocations to agriculture, move towards price
decontrol, and increase tariffs of various parastatals. Furthermore, the
government agreed to undertake studies, and draw up action plans, which
would lead to more concrete institutional and policy reforms in following
phases of the program. For this purpose, the first SAL was accompanied by
a free-standing technical assistance credit. At the time of the
preparation of the second SAL it was clear that still more knowledge needed
to be accumulated in certain key areas, and also that the Government lacked
the expertise to carry out an adjustment program without external technical
assistance. A second technical assistance project was therefore coupled
with SAL II.
The Second Technical Assistance Credit
16.       Five specific components of this project were identified at the
time it was approved, with a sixth category left for other studies. They
weret
(A) Strengthening the energy planning capabilities of the Economic
Planning Division of the Borrower's Office of the President and Cabinet,
including training.



- 5 -
This component has been carried out mainly in the form of one
long-term expert assignment (1986-1988) at a cost of
approximately 283,000 SDR; there was cofinancing from the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) mainly for training and
equipment.
(B) Carrying out by the Tobacco Research Authority (TRA) of a pilot
fuelvood savings program.
This component involved the financing of two experts for
research and extension work for a period of two years. The
component may be regarded as the partial financing
(approximately 240,000 SDR) of a project strongly supported by
UNDP.
(C1) Carryi- out of an electric power tariff study by the Borrower's
Electric Supply Commission and (C2) an industrial price control study by
the Borrower's Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism.
Component (C2) was dropped; the Government had strongly reduced
its price control system without requiring external expertise
for this process. Component (Cl) was carried out at a cost of
approximately 102,000 SDR.
(D) Strengthening of the Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation's financial management capabilities
This component consisted of a two-year extension (costing an
equivalent of approximately 121,000 SDR) of the assignment of a
Financial Controller who had been financed from another Bank
project before. This was following a recommendation from a
consultancy under TA !.
(E) Strengthening the Borrower's Ministry of Finance's debt management
capabilities, including training and acquisition of equipmer.t.
This is a follow-up on a component of TA I. Support under TA II
was limited to purchase of additional equipment; proposed
advisory assistance was supplied directly by staff of the
External Debt Division of the World Bank who undertook seven
missions in the period of 1983-1988.
(F) Other studies associated with the Second Structural Adjustment
Project.  Under this category six more components have been carried out,
some of quite substantial volume (cost), others quite small:
(Fl)  Agricultural Diversification Study (Analysis of the viability of a
proposed agricultural credit institution for the estate sub-sector)
This study was carried out at a very early stage of TA II (1984/
85) at a cost of approximately 82,000 SDR.  The study has shown
that credit demand could be met without creating a new
institution.



- 6 -
(F2) Comprehensive Human Resources Study (Manpower Survey)
Cost-wise this study was the largest component of TA II
(equivalent to approximately 350.000 SDR or 25 Z of the total
credit amount). The study was carried out by a team provided by
International Labor Organization (ILO), in cooperation with the
Department of Personnel, Management and Training (DPMT).
(F3) Study on (the revision of) the code for government procurement
(*procurement code study")
This study (cost approximately 33,000 SDR) has been completed as
a draft which has been reviewed recently by the Government and
will be completed by the end of 1990.
(F4) to (F6): Unutilized funds of TA II have been used for financing parts
of project preparation activities for the proposed Institutional
Development Project (IDP) (short-term contract for an expert in preparation
of the Malawi Institute of Management component, and short-term contract
for a second expert in a similar context). Also in connection with the IDP
(and with delays in the utilization of the TA II funds) one may see the
financing from TA II of 16 cases of training abroad for personnel of the
Ministry of Finance, a purpose for which Schedule 2 oZ the Credit Agreement
did not make any provision. These three components of TA II seem closely
related to what seems to signal a trend leading away from the original
technical assistance projects. Details of the individual components are
given in the attached annex.
17.       Of the originally identified five studies or activities, three
were connected with the energy sector and two were connected with
Strengthening of key development institutions, one a parastatal and one a
component of a Government ministry. These were addressed under the TA
project because of the belief by the Bank and the Government that they were
vital parts of the Adjustment Program and needed to be acted upon quickly.
At least implicitly there was a belief that grant financing from other
donors was not available for these activities. Other TA components, such
as the development of the extension and management training programs for
the estate sector, were left for other donors and indeed the first
component above (the strengthening of the energy planning capabilities) has
subsequently been picked up by UNDP under grant financing. It is not
possible to know if greater effort at the time of the preparation would
have enabled the Bank and the Government to find grant financing for all
the components of TA II.
18.       The 'other studies associated with the Second Structural
Adjustment Project' were very heterogeneous and it appears that these funds
were looked upon by both the Bank and the Government as a fund to be tapped
for various activities for which other funding could not be found, even if
the links to the SAL were somewhat tenuous at times. For the Bank the
major expenditure was on a Comprehensive Human ResourcE's Study. The links
of this to the SAL were not firmly established and when it experienced a
cost overrun of over 40 percent, it consumed over a quarter of the total



-7
funds in the project. Another major use was to help prepare the
Institutional Development Project which was closely tied to the goal of
strengthening development institutions, especially the Ministry of Finance.
On the Government's side, the main use of these unallocated funds was for
training, especially for staff of the Ministry of Finance.
Proiect Supervision and Implementation
19.       On the Government's side the overall project was under the
supervision of the Ministry of Finance and on the Bank's side overall
supervision was under the Country Programs Division and then the Country
Operations Division after the reorganization. The various subcomponents
were supervised by technical people in various divisions both within the
Government and the Bank. For example the energy efficiency component was
supervised by the Energy Division of the Central Projects, while the
manpower study was supervised by the departmental Education Division, the
debt monitoring component by the country programs and country operations
divisions with assistance from the External Debt Division. Given the
varied nature of the subcomponents, this allocation across various groups
made sense, but it complicated coordination of activities and decreased
central control and responsibility.
20.       The Bank supervised the overall project three times in six
years, May 1984, July 1986 and July 1988. Each supervision was done by a
different staff member. In addition numerous supervisions of subprojects
were carried out, often in conjunction with other tasks in the field. On
Government's side the project was under the Finance Officer in charge of
dealing with the World Bank and it did not receive much attention or
supervision. This can be seen in the haphazard submission of disbursement
requests without any central tracking by the Government. As a result there
was generally confusion about the amount of funds still available under the
project and what components had received payments. Only after the
supervision mission in 1988 was the Government able to construct a complete
flow of funds to the project that was agreed with the Bank. An indication
of the lack of central control on both sides was the Government's
submission twice for reimbursement of a computer purchase of more than
MK460,000 (about SDR157,000) and the Bank's paying twicel Once the error
was caught, the Bank applied future disbursement requests against the
overpayment, further complicating the calculations of the sums remaining in
the credit. The already mentioned large overruns on the Human Resources
Study are another example of a lack of central control.
Proiect Results
21.       The OED Evaluation Study identified a number of problems with
technical assistance in general in Malawi and many of these are evident in
this project. As presented at a seminar in Lilongwe in April 1988 these
includeds
(a) The lack of sufficient Government coordinating capacity, able to
define technical assistance needs on the basis of own personnel
development plans, and to request and supervise technical
assistance from various donors accordingly.



(b) Difficulties in the Government's system of personnel management,
leading to a loss (or insufficient use) of trained personnel
(including personnel trained in the context of technical
assistance).
(c) The unsolved issue of whether and to what extent foreign donors
should make more use of local professionals instead of
expatriates (advantages in terms of cost and training
opportunities, disadvantage of creating distortions in local pay
scales).
(d) Competition and non-coordination among donors; influence of own
interests of donor agencies and experts (e.g., prolongation of
assignments beyond actual needs).
(e) Difficulties of donor agencies to react fast and flexibly to
assistance needs and to recruit fully qualified personnel.
(f) Insufficient planning and supervision of the individual
technical assistance projects, both through donor and recipient
agencies, particularly in respect to asoftu objectives like
training of local personnel.
(g) Sigh cost of technical assistance (even if given on a grant
basis); strong reluctance to use loans or credits for technical
assistance purposes.
22.       Issue (a) is regarded a key issue; without strengthening the
Malawi Government's capacity for a better coordination and supervision of
technical assistance, little progress can be made in solving any of the
other issues.
23.       Looking at the sub-projects it is very difficult to discover any
common denominator except the following:
-     Funds from the TA loan/credit are used for the import of expert
services (including payment of salaries for expatriates already
living in the country) and, in some cases, of goods with a high
technology content.
-     These imported services (goods) are not directly linked to other
Bank-financed capital projects (e.g., infrastructure projects)
or import programs (as financed under SAL); however, in several
cases there are quite strong indirect links (e.g., studies
relating to sectors where the Bank is or intends to be
involved). Three subprojects (ADMARC, Electricity Supply
Commission of Malawi (ESCOM), Debt Management Unit in the
Ministry of Finance) are linked to SALs while two are not and
two are doubtful.
-     In principle, all the sub-projects refer to the import of know-
how (thought to be not available in Malawi) which is to be



-9-
brought to use, in quite different ways, within the Malawi
Government's and para-statal institutional framework.
24.       The latter seems importantt There are at least four different
ways of bringing to use the foreign know-howt
(a)   Foreign experts work in line positions, making direct use of
their know-how with or without transfer to others (case Di
Financial Controller).
(b)   Foreign experts act as advisors and trainers, transferring their
know-how to local professionals who actually bring it to use (in
none of the cases existing in pure form; however, to some
extent, transfer of know-how in the Energy Unit and the Fuelwood
Savings Project).
(c)   Foreign experts produce a study; this 'product' incorporates the
experts' know-how and work results, and it is left to the
recipient institution(s) to make use of it (dominating form in
the case of the Power Tariff Study and the Human Resources
Study; there are strong elements of this "delivery system' also
in other cases like support to the Ministry of Finance).
(d)   Through training abroad foreign know-how is transferred to local
professionals who, at a later stage, will have to make use of
that know-how in their own work situation (almost nonexistent in
the Bank-financed technical assistance to Malawi, except the
recent, more or less unplanned, training for the Ministry of
Finance personnel).
25.       The seven cases differ widely in respect to the 'delivery
system' of the technical assistance through which foreign expertise is
transferred to, and brought to use in Malawi. They also differ widely in
their objectives especially in the scope of their ambitions to contribute
to public sector management and institutional development. Since there are
no generally accepted categories for a classification of such objectives,
such differences can be described here only in a pragmatic way; one may
distinguish the following types of cases:
(a)   There are some cases where, at least in principle, the technical
assistance was/is meant to lead to a broad-based and sustainable
strengthening of a specific institution: this seems to be the
case with the strengthening of the Energy Unit of OPT (case A)
and the support to the Ministry of Finance (cases E and F3-6.)
(b)   There are other cases where it was intended, through the
provision of a study, to contribute to specific strategic
decisions which would play a decisive role for the development
of a certain institution: an example is the Power Tariff Study
for ESCOM (case C). One may say that these are one-shot
contributions to institutional development.



- 10 -
(c)   The Human Resources Study (case F2) is not oriented to a
specific institution; it is providing basic information
potentially relevant for many different institutions.
(d)   There are other cases where the main objective seems to have
been the filling of a specific gap within the personnel
structure of an institution: e.g. the Financial Controller of
ADMARC (case D). This is a form of so-called "substitution,
technical assistance.
(e)   The pilot Fuelwood Savings Project (case B) had little ambition
of institutional development and public sector management; it is
a classical project meant to produce a certain output (research
results) and to deliver those results to the target group.
(f)   In addition there are a number of components not discussed here
in detail, which have the character of feasibility studies on
potential future projects.
26.       Several cases combine elements of several categories; the given
classification may not do full justice to them. It also should be noted
that in some cases the Bank-financed assistance covers only a part of the
foreign inputs; other important contributions to the same "project" had
been made by other donors, for instance, by UNDP. In such cases neither
the success nor the problems can be fully attributed to the Bank's
assistance.
27.       Despite the formation of a debt monitoring unit in the Ministry
of Finance and improved record keeping and data analysis, little progress
was noted with developing an external borrowing strategy, and in general,
with the monitoring capabilities of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The
MOF's administrative capacity has remained weak. Strengthening financial
management is now an important objective of the recently initiated
Institutional Development Project (Cr. 2036-MAI).
28.       Parastatal operations generally improved.  The restructuring and
restoration of the financial and operational soundness of Press Holdings
and Malawi Development Corporation (MDC) had been largely accomplished
under SAL8 I and II. The Government monitors the operations of these
organizations through representation on their Boards. Both organizations
have continued to make progress, both financially and operationally. At
the time of the review mission, plans were being worked out for the
divestiture of a number of ADMARC's non-marketing activities. ADMARC's
operations became the main focus of the program under the SAL III
Supplement. However, there was less success in restructuring the
operations of Department of Statutory Bodies (DSB). Its staffing has
remained weak and implementation of a new system giving more freedom to
parastatals to implement agreed upon annual plans has yet to be
implemented.
29.       Summarizing one may say that Bank's assistance given under the
free-standing technical assistance agreement TA II, although assumed to
support SAL II, included a wide spectrum of relatively small technical



- 11 -
assistance components, greatly differing in their objectives, means of
delivery, and comprehensiveness of the resources provided. Only for some
of the components one can see a fairly close link to the policies of
Structural Adjustment. Such links may be seen in the attempted
strengthening of the para-statal organizations (ADMARC, ESCOM) or in the
strengthening of core institutions (Energy Unit in the Department of
Planning and Development, Ministry of Finance). In the case of the
Fuelvood Savings Project and the Human Resources Study it is more difficult
to see such links. Consequently, although the TA projects were appraised
at the same time as SAL I and II and were presented to the Board
simultaneously with the SALs, some of their components were in fact only
loosely related to such SALs.
V. LESSONS FROM EXPERIENCE
Bank and Borrower Performance
30.       With the possible exception of the Fuelvood Savings Project,
which was the most technical and practical project, all the sub-projects
had shortfalls in respect of one or more of the following success criteria
which, though not explicitly formulated in any of the project documents,
can be regarded as necessary conditions of successful technical assistance
activities:
(a)   The professional quality of the personnel involved and the job
performed.
(b)   The correspondence to needs in the sense that the output really
fits a felt need, making the recipient institution(s) to absorb
and fully utilize the technical assistance output.
(c)   The efficiency/economy of producing the output at reasonable
cost (particularly without undue and costly delays).
(d)   The training and transfer effect:  having local professionals to
participate in the work process and absorbing the know-how
brought in by expatriates.
(e)   Sustainability:  the recipient organizational unit is maintained
after the end of technical assistance, and the local
professionals trained under the project remain available with
this unit for the work still to be done. (Discussed in a later
section.)
31. The cases investigated differ widely as to the extent to which those
success criteria have been met. In respect to the professional quality
(criteria a) no really strong critical comments were voiced. However, some
doubts were raised in several cases by the former local counterparts and/or
Bank supervision reports, whether really an optimum choice of personnel had
been made, particularly referring to the Energy Advisor (case A) and the
team working on the Human Resources Study (case P2).



- 12 -
32.       The problem of technical assistance not really matching the
needs of the recipient institutions is case C: ESCOM was never really
convinced that the tariff problem under study (tariffs based on long-term
marginal cost) was an issue of urgent concern; the study remained an
academic exercise.
33.       Doubts concerning the efficiency/economy of the technical
assistance have been and may be raised in respect to several sub-projects.
In case B (Fuelwood Savings Project) long delays in the execution must be
seen as the only major shortfall in this project. The Human Resources
Study (case F2) ran into substantial difficulties due to budget over-runs.
34.       The lack of training and know-how transfer is a negative feature
common to practically all the sub-projects, perhaps with one exception: the
execution of the Human Resources Study (case P2) was done in a form
conducive to familiarize the local professionals with relevant techniques
for manpower surveys and manpower planning.
35.       Project management has been done with very low intensity and
with techniques which could be improved:
-     On both sides, in the Bank and in the Ministry of Finance,
documentation on the project/agreement is kept only in the form
of purely chronological files, taking in information if and when
it comes up. Apart from the few Supervision Reports there are
no other instruments producing information on a routine basis in
a standard form. There is no standardized information on the
individual subprojects (subproject data sheet) giving some major
data like objectives, targets, responsibilities assigned to
different institutions or persons, budget, commitments, actual
disbursements.
Disbursements are not made/classified by subprojects but only by
types of cost (equipment, consultants etc.); "project managers'
have difficulties to find out from the files what commitments
and disbursements actually have been made in respect to
individual sub-projects. In the course of implementing TA II
there were periods in which the responsible persons on both
sides had great difficulties to decide how many funds were still
available under the agreement and how much room there would be
to enter into further activities.
Clearly more frequent supervision of the overall project by the Bank staff
would have been useful.
36.       The Project Completion Report (PCR) for SAL III has pointed out
that ideally the adjustment program should be the Government's own program.
reviewed and endorsed by the Bank, which would be supported by structural
adjustment lending. But, as in so many other countries, the Malawian
Government's own capability to analyze and formulate policies was weak, and
the first two SAL operations were basically Bank-designed programs.
Strengthening the Government's policy formulation capabilities was one of



- 13 -
the objectives of the TA credits, but little progress was made and the
further phases of the program continued to be designed mostly by the Bank.
37.       In respect to the "other projects" which were still to be
defined, no clear pattern seems to exist. There seems to be at least three
different types of casest
-     Project ideas coming up from other Malawian institutions looking
for a source of finance (example: Human Resources Study)
-     Ideas connected with other Bank activities (example:
consultancies connected with the preparation of the
Institutional Development Project)
Ideas resulting from the desire to make a quick and
u..complicated use of some left-over funds under the Agreement
(example: training abroad for Ministry of Finance personnel).
38.       Only in some cases terms of reference were still traceable in
the files. In general, they seemed adequate, sufficiently precise to give
direction, sufficiently flexible to adapt to changing or unknown needs. A
common feature seems to be that training tasks, though principally part of
technical assistance operations, are not detailed clearly in the terms of
reference or contracts.
39.       In none of the cases serious mistakes in selecting the
expatriate personnel seem to have happened. However, there seems to be
some tendency to give preference to contracting large and well-established
firms rather than experimenting with smaller firms or even individuals who
might be available at lower cost.
40.       In principle, the individual subprojects which were executed by
various Government institutions were to be supervised, from the Malawi
side, by the Ministry of Finance as the agency responsible for the overall
project. This supervision, however, was largely confined to the financial
and administrative aspects. On the Bank's side there was some substantial
supervision (also in professional terms) only in respect to the energy-
related subprojects and the strengthening of the external debt unit.
41.       With the exception of the Fuelwood Savings Project, no regular
activity or progress reports were prepared which could have been a basis
for a somewhat regular monitoring of the progress by the Bank or by Malawi
institutions. It is not known whether a final report has been prepared on
any of the subprojects; no such report, prepared by a consultant or by an
executing agency, could be found in the files.
42.       The change of personnel and organization in the Bank led to less
than optimal supervision of the project--a certain minimum amount of
standardized and routine flow of information would avoid this problem of
less than optimal supervision, particularly in times of rapid changes in
personnel and organization. In addition the Resident Mission in Malawi was
just being organized during the implementation of the project and it was
not able to play as substantive a role as would be expected.



- 14 -
Sustainability
43.       The best way to ensure that the adjustment process is sustained,
is to help to build up the Government's capacity and willingness to
"internalize" the process of policy reform as quickly as possible; in other
words, to ensure that the country accepts the adjustment program as its own
and not the Bank's, and that it is designed by the country. This, however,
has been the least successful aspect of the adjustment process. The
Government has made increased efforts to design its own reform program and
it has been successful in developing a medium term policy framework. Still
in spite of attempts to bring about a strengthening of the Government's
capability to carry out policy analysis, the programs under the three SALs
continued to be mainly designed by the Bank. It has become apparent that
instead of becoming easier and more acceptable, it became more difficult
for the Government to reach and implement difficult decisions. Actions
carried out only to meet requirements of the lender are soon abandoned and
don't have a lasting impact. Examples are the continuing weaknesses in
forward budgeting and recent deterioration of the debt unit.
44.       For the technical assistance subprojects, sustainability is
defined as the recipient organizational unit being maintained after the end
of technical assistance, and the local professionals trained under the
project remain available with this unit for the work still to be done.
45.       Sustainability, only can apply where positive short-medium-term
effects have been achieved, i.e., where a professionally sound output has
been produced and has been accepted by the recipient institution and where
some training and transfer effects have taken place. A striking example of
non-sustainability seems to be the Human Resources Study. Although certain
training effects were achieved during the study such effects were not
sustainable: all the local professionals who had participated in this
project have left the Department; the former Manpower Unit practically has
been dissolved. In case of the Energy Unit (case A) training effects
during the assignment of the advisor seem to have been below optimum, and
their sustainability is endangered by the fact that the local professionals
who had worked with the advisor will leave the unit for further long-term
training abroad. In case B (fuelwood savings) sustainable effects are
likely to be achieved within the target group (tobacco growers); they were
not intended to be achieved in the public institutions.
Lessons Learned
46.       Evaluation of the overall project is difficult because the
various components differed so from each other and because in many of the
cases there were not planning documents that outlined clearly the
objectives and targets in such a way that success could be measured against
pre-defined yardsticks. Also some of the components had very short term
objectives, e.g. the production of a least cost energy plan or the payment
of the salary for a financial controller for ADMARC, while others were more
of a longer term, institution building nature, e.g. the strengthening of
the debt unit in the Ministry of Finance. The short term projects could be
judged successful or not at this time, but for the long-term projects, a



- 15 -
final judgement may need more time to be rendered. In all cases though, it
should be kept in mind that the major purpose of the TA II project was to
help the Government in carrying out its adjustment program. In this regard
the lack of predetermined objectives and the availability of uncommitted
funds added flexibility to the project which was useful as new needs were
identified over the cource of the SAL implementation. Often unforeseen
events, both external shocks and internal difficulties, create the need for
additional studies or the recruitment of either short-term or longer
consultants and experts. Funding for these needs is often required on
short notice and the TA II project was useful in this regard. With hind
sight, however, the priority of what were seen as pressing needs may later
be questioned. Certainly the training courses taken by the staff in the
Ministry of Finance should not have been approved without a comprehensive
staffing and training program. Both the Bank and the Government failed to
put the technical assistance needs into a longer term context. Also
support to a broad-based SAL led to an overly diffuse TA project. Just as
the adjustment operations have become more focussed, so must the technical
assistance to Government if it is to be effective.
47.       The evaluation of SAL III concluded thaL the adjustment program
has had limited success in insulating the economy from exogenous factors.
The cyclical ups and downs in growth and financial performance coincided to
a large extent with movements in the external terms of trade, which on the
downside were reinforced by droughts and the consequences of the conflict
in neighboring Mozambique. This experience shows that the assumption
underlying the three SALs that the constraints and distortions in the
economy were relatively mild, and that with successful implementation of
broad measures, a sufficient supply response could be achieved, appears to
have been too optimistic. The Bank now recognizes that the constraints to
growth are much more deep-seated than previously realized and the
Government's ability to implement an adjustment program is not as strong as
we had thought. Administratively and politically the Government has not
been able to formulate or implement the adjustment program as quickly as
anticipated. This implies that the technical assistance supplied in these
areas was not sufficient or adequately absorbed and retained. The
adjustment program issues are now being addressed through the design of
much more narrowly focused operations, increased emphasis on key supply
bottlenecks and efforts to strengthen the administrative ability of the
Government and key development institutions.
48.       The improvement of economic management was most noticeable in
the cases of the private sector conglomerate Press Holdings and large
established parastatals, such as MDC and ADMARC. Within a relatively short
time those organizations were restructured, their respective functions
clarified, their management improved and they were put on sounder financial
footing. Much less successful were the attempts to create new institutions
that would provide services to productive sectors such as agricultural
extension for the estate sector and export promotion facilities.
49.       Within central Government, management improved more on
stabilization and public finance, with which Government official were
familiar. However, the capability and willingness of the Government to
develop and carry out market-oriented indirect policies, and to stimulate



- 16 -
liberalization and privatization, came under great stress in times of
financial duress. In fact, in 1986 and 1987, the SAL programs were
seriously endangered by the introduction of new quantitative controls.
50.       When the Government is engaged in crisis management, there is
very little time to think through long-term adjustment measures, and it
becomes very tempting to resort to direct controls. BuL even when the new
direction in economic management (reducing direct controls) is accepted by
our main partners in the dialogue, the Ministry of Finance and the Economic
Planning Department, they still need to convince the ministries and
agencies whose main role has been to control, allocate, and license.
Eventually those 'control agencies' will have to be transformed into
'service agencies'. This will be a difficult and time-consuming process
that the Bank has only begun to address. Further work in public sector
management and going beyond the economic ministries to the sector
ministries will be needed in the future.
Recommendations
51.       Future technical assistance oriented to institutional
development should try to avoid or to minimize some disadvantages of the
Bank's present technical assistances namely the tendency towards a
'blueprint approach' (which is more suitable for capital projects than for
assistance to social processes), and the Bank's insufficient supervision of
technical assistance projects and sub-projects. More molding of the
project as both sides learn from the experience of implementing the project
is needed. Regularized supervision of both the overall project and
possible subprojects should be implemented.
52.       Future technical assistance should concentrate on fields where
the Bank has a strong comparative advantage over other donors (for example,
projects which help develop macro and micro economic analysis capability).
Project components should be as closely related as possible and not just a
grab bag of odds and ends thrown together. Unidentified components could
be developed during the implementation of the project, but extra funds
should not be a slush fund looked upon by both sides as free resources to
be used in a haphazard way. It seems more appropriate to organize the
assistance country or sector-wise with one or a few major partner
institutions being involved not only administratively but also
professionally. Clearly an institutional development strategy needs to be
devised along with economic policy.
53.       Assistance complementing SALs should not be given in the form of
free-standing multi-sectoral 'umbrella' agreements, but are better to be
integrated into the SAL program and project itself. Just as the Government
must feel it lownsu the adjustment program, so must it own the technical
assistance that goes with it to help in implementation. Strengthening of
key institutions is a key component of adjustment, but given its longer
term nature, it should probably be put into separate institutional
development projects. In turn, these ID projects should be phased to
complement the priorities identified in the adjustment program.



- 17 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Bank has requested the Malawi authorities to submit their
own evaluation of the TAP, but this document has not been
received.



- 18 -
PART III.  STATISTICAL INFOMITION
CREDIT DATA
(Amount: US)1.50 M)
As oft November 30, 1989
Original    Disbursed   Cancelled    Repaid   Outstanding
Credit 1428-VAI     1.5        1.67           .01         -        1.80
Original Credit Dates        Actual or Re-estimated
Initiating Memorandum          February 1983               23 April 1983
Letter of Development
Policy                    November 1983               25 November 1983
Negotiations                   November 1983               11 November 1983
Board Approval                 December 1983               20 December 1983
Credit Agreement               December 1983               20 December 1983
Effectiveness                  January  1984                6 January  1984
Credit Closing              30 June      1987              30 June     1989
Actual Completion           31 December 1987               15 November 1989
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEENT
FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
(i)    Planned            0.10    0.80    1.40    1.50    -0-      -0-     -0-
(ii)   Actual             0.00    0.20    0.51    1.17    1.58    1.66    1.67
(iii) (ii) as X of (i)    0.02    25.0X   16..4    78.0X   1052    110X    lllZ
1XSSION DATA
No. of   No. of    Staff    Date of
Month, Year  Weeks    Persons   Weeks    Report
Preparation               June  82      2         3          6     21 July   82
Preparation               Feb.  83      2         1          2     24 Feb.   83
Appraisal                 June  83      3         7         21       6 July   83
Supervision I*            May   84      1         3                 1 June   84
Supervision II            July  86      2         1          2     12 August 86
Supervision III           July  88      2         1          2      5 AuQust 88
Completion                Feb   90      1         1          1 
* These do not include separate supervision missions for various subprojects



- 19 -
RELATED BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
Loan/Credit                              Year of
Title                     Purpose        Approval    Status      Comments
Loan 2026                  Support       1981        Closed       PCRz 8/12/86
SAL I                     Government"s               8/12/82
Structural
Adjustment
Program
Loan 2027-MAI             Produce        1981        Closed       PCR: 8/12/86
Technical                 studies on                 5/30/85
Assistance I              which reforms
were to be
based.
Credit 1427-MAI           Continue       1983        Closed       PCR: 8/12/86
SAL II                    support for   (PY 1984)   6/30/85
Government's
Structural
Adjustment
Program
Credits 1644-MAI          Continue       1985        Closed      PCR: 6/23/89
A-90, A-91                 support for   (FY1986)    9/30188      Supplemental
SAL III                   Government's                           approved
Structural                             1987
Adjustment
Program
Credit 1920-MAI           Continue       1988        In           Second Tranche
Industry and Trade        Support for                progress.   Release
Policy Adjustment         Government's                           approved 8/89;
Credit                     Structural                             IDA reflows
Adjustment                             supplements
Program                                signed 5/89
& 12/89
Credit 2036-MAI            Strengthen    1989        In           Signed 12/89
Institutional             national                   progress.   & effective
Development                economic                               1/90
management.



_ 20 -
CREDIT DISBURSUEBNTS
Disbursements (SDRs)
Categorv           Descriktion             Credit Aareement      Actual
1                Vehicles, equipment       230,000.00           217,858.26
and office supplies
2                Consultants' services    990,000.00          1,182,141.74
and training
3                Unallocated               180.000.00
1,400,000.00         1,400,000.00



-21-                            ANNEX
SEVEN CASE STUDIES ON INDIVIDUAL COMPONENTS OF THE
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE OPERATION 1/
1.        This annex gives a detailed description and assessment of the
major sub-projects of TA II. In the case of AD4ARC and the Debt Management
Unit of the Ministry of Finance support was given under both TA I and TA II
but handled as one case study here.
2.        The text on the seven cases follows a standard patternt
-    Sources of information:  documents consulted in the course of
this study
-    Context and objectives:  a brief description of what had been
the reasoning and the intentions which had led to requesting and
implementing this specific technical assistance activity.
-    Input and activitiess  the number and sources of the major
technical assistance inputs (particularly consultants) and the
main activities performed by the technical assistance personnel
and their direct partners.
-    organization and supervision
-    Achievements, success: mainly based on the statements made by
the interview partners in Malawi, supplemented by the author's
views on the quality of documents, the assessment refers to the
quality of the *products, the degree to vhich it was brought to
use, and aspects of sustainability.
-    Issues, special remarks:  this paragraph is meant to highlight
some major points from the other five items which seem to
deserve particular attention in the context of this study.
3.        In term  of cost, these case studies make up for about 90Z of
the assistance given under TA II.
Case Bs   Strengthening the financial management of the Agricultural
Development & Marketing Corporation (ADMARC)
Sources of Information
Bank files only.
I/This section is taken virtually verbatim from the Evaluation Study of
Free Standing Technical Assistance.



- 22 -                           ANNEX
Note: Contacts were restricted to one meeting on December 7, 1988 which
proved difficult to arrange. The executives at the assistant general
manager level were reluctant to discuss the subject (although they had
worked with the Bank-financed controller) and did not agree to any
appointment before the subject had been brought to the General Manager who
was to return from abroad on December 6. 1988.
Context and Obiectives
4.        ADMARC is one of Malawi's large parastatal organizations,
involved in various agricultural development schemes and particularly in
helping the smallholder farmers to market their cash crops. In the context
of SAL I and SAL II the strengthening of ADMARC was important in respect of
two objectives: providing better price incentives to the farmers and
reducing the government budget deficit to which losses of various
parastatals had been contributing.
5.        In the same way as MDC and Press Holding, ADMARC was to screen
and streamline its portfolio, an operation which required capacity for
financial analysis and carrying out investment/disinvestment decisions.
Assistance to ADMARC was not explicitly mentioned in the TA I Agreement.
However, a short-term consultancy was financed under this agreement in 1982
(carried out by an expert who had previously served as ADMARC's Company
Secretary). Apart from other recommendations the consultant strongly
emphasized the necessity of strengthening ADMARC's financial management.
This was taken up in the President's Report for TA II proposing assignments
of two financial experts:
(a) a financial analyst,
(b) a financial controller (to head the finance and accounting
department).
Input and Activities
6.        The assignment (a) never materialized (reasons unknown).  For
the post (b) recruitment was already made before the Credit Agreement TA II
was signed: from mid-1983 the employment of a financial controller (on the
basis of an individual contract) was financed through the Bank Project NRDP
I for a period of two years. The President's Report for TA II already
mentioned that TA II funds should be used for further extending that
assignment beyond mid-1985. Nothing is known about the
recruitment/selection process and whether the Bank was involved
(information possibly in files on NRDP I).
Organization and Supervision
7.        Identification and planning:  The President's Report for TA II
explicitly refers to la study of the financial and operating efficiency of
ADMARC, financed by the first technical assistance loan. Among the seven
major recommendations of that report two relate to restructuring of
ADMARC's investments and to strengthening ADMARC's financial management.



- 23 -                          ANNEX
The President's Report does not show why only the field of financial
management, and not the five other areas of concern, were to be taken up as
subjects of technical assistance under the "free-standing, agreement. How
ever, the other areas of concern may have been taken up in the framework of
other agriculture-related Bank activities or the more recent UNDPIFAO
ADMARC project.
8.        Supervisions  The only supervision report on TA II which gives
some detailed information on most of the project's components (August 12,
1986) states that "the financial controller.... has been actively involved
in developing ADMARC's divestiture program in collaboration with IDA and
with USAID. Given the recent preparation of the ADMARC project, the present
mission did not actively supervise this component".
9.        In this context a question of the General Manager of ADMARC made
during the meeting of December 7, 1988 seems remarkable: 'Why do you
evaluate this now? You should have done that during the assignment. Now
one can't change anything. At that time we did not see anybody from World
Bank who would have looked into that matter."
Achievements, Success
10.       In the period in which the Financial Controller was financed
from TA II funds, unforeseen market developments (inter alias increasing
purchases at fixed prices, decreasing export prices) brought ADMARC into
financial difficulties. The financial management had to play a
particularly important role at that time. In the view of the present
management it had been the right decision (in 1983) to establish the post
of the Financial Controller and to recruit an expatriate for this post
since sufficiently qualified Malawians were not available at that time.
However, ADMARC management did not wish to discuss in detail whether one
really had found the best person for the job.
11.       Summarizing, it is felt that the controller certainly played an
important role in ADMARC's day-to-day operations. However, he also tended
to do things on his own instead of making other persons understand why and
with which perspective things had to be done.
(Note: the circumstances of the present discussion, and the reluctance to
agree on an appointment at all with the OED mission, seem to indicate that
the working relationship between the controller and the present general
manager was not free of tension).
Issues. Snecial Remarks
-    Supervision and Reporting
-    Funding one expert assignment out of different projects (first
NRDP I, then TA IIl: How does that affect supervision?
-    Technical assistance, without proper monitoring by a central
institution or the donor, can lead to difficulties for the



- 24 -                          ANNEX
recipient institutions "things don't get easier if you have
somebody in your managing team who is not on your payroll'
(remark made by the ADMARC general manager).
Case C:   Study on Power Tariffs for the Electricity Supply Commission of
Malawi (ESCOM)
Sources of Information
12.       Coopers & Lybrand Associates in cooperation with Merz &
McLellan, Tariff Study - Final Report, July 1985; ESCOM, summary of She
Tariff Study and comments on the report, December 1985
Context and Obiectives
13.       The government's medium-term program (1981/82-1985/86) which was
formulated in the context of the First Structural Adjustment Program made
the review of price systems and tariffs one of four areas of priority
concern. A study on power tariffs and suitable formulas for future
adjustments was rational in that context. It appears that the Bank, at the
same time, was interested to use the Malawi case (among others) as a test
case for a fairly new concept of developing a tariff structure which
reflected, as closely as possible, the long-run marginal cost to the
economy of meeting power demand. Considering the fact that, in comparison
to other Halawian parastatal organizations, ESCOM had maintained a
relatively sound economic position, no particularly pressing reasons for
introducing a new power tariff structure seem to have existed at the time
of conceiving the TA II Program. However, this study, though being the
only ESCOM-related activity under the "free-standing" TA agreement, was but
one of many Bank-supported activities related to ESCOM. There had been TA
components in various capital projects, and there are still such components
in the Bank's more recent sectoral projects. The study is not as "free-
standing" as it might appear at first glance.
Input and Activities
14.       The contract for the study was given to Coopers & Lybrand
Associates (London) who, in cooperation with Merz & McLellan, provided a
team of three experts (two economists, one engineer). The team visited
Malawi for about 3 weeks primarily for fact finding. During this period
ESCOM staff was active in providing data, primarily on the demand structure
and cost characteristics of the various elements of the power system. The
analysis of the data and drafting of the report took place mainly in
Britain with members of the ESCOM management participating only in the
final phase (FebruarylMarch 1985).
Organization and Supervision
15.       Bank sector staff obviously had been quite active in initiating
the study and financing it under the "free-standing" TA II agreement.
Files do not show any Bank involvement during the process of the study.



- 25-                           ANNEX
According to statements of the Financial Controller, ESCOM has sent the
final report and its own comments to the Bank but did not receive a reply.
In fact, a reply may have been given orally during a supervision mission
carried out by energy sector staff in September 1986. A back-to-office
report reports on discussions held with ESCOM on the results of the study.
This report indicates, that ESCOM did not agree to some of the assumptions
and conclusions of the study (see 5 below) and states that "it was agreed
that the results of the study should be held in abeyance until some time in
1987, when firmer information.... becomes available".
Achievements, Success
16.       The study seems to have created a certain understanding of the
new concept of tariffs strongly reflecting future marginal energy cost.
How ever, the results of the study as such have not been implemented
probably for two reasons:
-    The process of the study (fact finding mission and subsequent
write-up of the report in London) was not conducive to a
dialogue between the consultants and the client, convincing
ESCOM management of the suitability of the concept and making
the study team sufficiently aware of specific questions or
constraints which ESCOM thought to be important.
-    Some assumptions on which the study was based did not become
true.
17.       There was little participation of ESCOM staff in actually
carrying out the analysis; therefore, training effects were very limited.
Issues. Special Remarks
-    Free-standing TA agreement only served as a bridge (or
convenient source for filling a gap) between various project-
related activities.
-    Fairly strong Bank role in initiating the study; obviously
little commitment on the recipient's side.
-    The work process of the study (with major parts carried out
abroad) was not conducive to active recipient participation and
training.
Case D:   Assignment of an advisor to the Energy Unit (EU) of the
Department of Economic Planning and Development (EPD)
Sources of Information
18.       Bank files; National Energy Plan 1988-1997 (Draft, October
1988).



- 26 -                          ANNEX
Context and Obiectives
19.       The President's Report on TA II (in this part identical with SAL
I, SAL II and TA I) describes the economic background very briefly as
follows:
'Malawi is totally dependant on imported petroleum. While imports
increased only 82 in volume between 1977 and 1980, their cost doubled
and as a share of total imports rose from 10 to 12.5Z. Fuel wood
accounts for some 80? of the total energy consumed in Malawi...
Thus, the Government faces the task of developing indigenous energy
sources in the rural areas and reducing the modern sector's
dependance on imported oil".
20.       However, the two SAL operations and the corresponding
Government's Medium-Term Program do not explicitly refer to energy as one
of the priority issues requiring immediate political action. Obviously
this issue was thought to need more long-term attention through intensified
research (e.g., in the area of fuel wood savings in the tobacco industry)
and over all planning. For this the ground had been prepared through the
comprehensive ESMAP study jointly carried out by the Bank and UNDP in 1982.
This study had clearly identified the need for more thorough planning in
regard to the various energy sub-sectors (like petroleum, power, fuel wood,
etc.) keeping in view the linkages and the savings potential through
substitution among those sub-sectors. Keeping in view that the various
sub-sectors were taken care of by different government institutions (not by
a Ministry of Energy), the strengthening of an Energy Unit in the Planning
Department of the Office of the President and Cabinet appeared to be the
rational approach.
21.       Towards this end the Government agreed to employ additional
professionals (in particular: an economist as head of the unit) and
requested IDA to finance the assignment of an experienced energy
economist/planner for a period of 18 months.
22.       The original request for the advisor (March 1984) emphasized
product-oriented duties like preparation of an overall national energy
policy, identification of energy resources, identification and priority
ranking of projects etc. However, keeping in view the context in which the
energy economist would work, one has to assume that a double role was
expected:
-    Producing (or contributing to) specific planning products
(documents).
-    Assisting in further building up the Energy Unit through staff
development, strengthening the organization, etc.
23.       The team with which the expert was to work was planned to
consist of up to five professionals.
Input and Activities



- 27 -                          ANNEX
24.       According to the Credit Agreement the work was to start in mid-
1984. In fact, there were considerable delays until a contract with a
consulting firm (Louis Berger International) was concluded (mid-1985?) and
until the energy advisor actually arrived on the spot (June 1986). It took
another several months until a core group of Malawian professionals (less
than planned) joined the Energy Unit.
25.       The work of the advisor, in overall terms, seems to have been
adequate, although there were critical comments in supervision reports
(September 1986 and August 1987). As planned, the work concentrated on
producing strategic documents (contribution to DEVPOL 1987-1996, and as the
main "product": the National Energy Plan 1988-1997). At the same time
efforts were made to strengthen the unit's internal organization (including
rudimentary data banks) and its external links to the various institutions
involved in the energy sector.
26.       The National Energy Plan became ready (draft) in October 1988,
necessitating an extension of the advisor's assignment by three months.
This was not financed by World Bank TA II but from UNDP funds which also
were used for acquiring computer equipment and sending Malawian staff
members for training abroad.
Organization and Supervision
27.       From what could be ascertained from the files, the assignment of
the energy advisor was supervised by Bank regional staff only once at the
very beginning; more regular and intensive supervision came from the Bank
sector staff who were also involved in supervising or preparing other
activities in the energy sector. The Malawian members of the unit
interviewed in the course of this study were not aware of any professional
input given by the consulting firm to the Unit (except direct discussions
with the advisor on his work program).
28.       For some time cooperation between the advisor and his Malawian
colleagues was made difficult by the former's double (and not clearly
defined) role of a performer being charged with specific own tasks, and of
an advisor supposed to assist the Malawian staff in getting the unit's work
done.
Achievements. Success
29.       The major achievements are:
-    The National Energy Plan: It is a fairly comprehensive and read
able document providing data and concepts; it appears to be a
suitable basis for further planning and coordination within and
between the various sub-sectors,
-    The working relations established with the various institutions
involved in the sector; the joint work on the Energy Plan (to



-28 -                           ANNEX
which all the institutions contributed) was instrumental to
this.
30.       Three Malawian staff members benefitted from the cooperation
with the advisor (in their own view: primarily regarding work
organization, establishing external links, use of computers). Not all the
benefits may be sustainable: These staff members are due to go abroad for
training, with returning colleagues replacing them shortly.
31.       It was planned to establish the core of a computerized data bank
on the energy sector. No sustainable results were achieved in this field.
Data on one sub-sector were stored on the hard disk of the advisor's
private PC; they got lost during an attempted transfer to one of the unit's
PCs.
Issues. Special Remarks
-    The expert's role as an advisor and trainer was made difficult
by his role as a performer which quite often tended to dominate
(perhaps particularly so in the case of contracts with
consulting firms).
-    Long delays before start of the assignment
-    Cofinancing with UNDP:  was this really useful in "projects* of
such a small scale?
-    Reporting;  the advisor left without leaving any final report on
his assignment and (according to his Malawian colleagues)
without proper information on how to follow up with his own work
and contacts.
Case E:   Partial financing of a pilot fuelwood savings program at the
tobacco Research Authority (TRA)
Sources of Information
32.       Bank files (mission reports, May 1984, June 1985, April 1986,
July 1987); UNDPIWorld Bank: Tobacco Industry Energy Efficiency Project,
phase I final report, January 1988.
Context and Obiectives
33.       The President's Reports on SAL I. SAL II, TA I and TA II all
mention the rising cost of energy resources as one issue becoming
increasingly important in Malawi and other countries. The government's
medium-term program (1981/82-1985/86), as far as it is shown in the
President's Reports, does not give specific emphasis to the energy sector
and to energy savings in particular. However, already in 1980 the phase II
(wood energy) of the National Rural Development Program (Credit 992-MAI)
embarked on various measures to increase forest resources and the creation



- 29 -                          ANNEX
of an energy unit in the Forestry Department of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources. No specific efforts relating to fuel wood savings
in the tobacco sector were included in this project.
34.       In 1981182 a broad-based energy survey was done in the framework
of the UNDP/World Bank ESMAP activities. Probably as a result of this
study, specific attention was given to the fuel wood savings potential in
the process of curing tobacco.
35.       The President's Report on TA II (para 94) describes the
background as follows: 'Tobacco curing accounts for an estimated 40S of
Malawi's fuel-wood consumption. Of this, some 400 growers of flue-cured
tobacco use 75Z of the wood and 42.600 growers of fire-cured use the
remaining 25Z. While energy savings are possible in both, the greatest
immediate pottntial obviously lies in the flue-cured tobacco.  Malawi's TRA
estimates that the flue-curing tobacco estates consume between 0.02 cubic
meter and 0.13 cubic meter of wood per kg of tobacco in their barns. Even
the most efficient barns, however, use about 3 or 4 times more wood energy
than the best ones in the United States". It is against this background
that a pilot project was proposed with the following objectives:
-    To burvey wood use as well as the number and condition of the
barns used in the flue-cured tobacco sector
-    To determine and demonstrate the possible savings in fuel usage
made by improving furnaces and vents. and to show that such
improvements are economic.
-    To disseminate the findings and results to growers for
implementation.
36.       Phase I of the project was intended as a pilot scheme to start
in April 1984 and continue for two years.
Input and Activities
37.       It is important to note that this two-year period was rot to be
a completely fresh starts it was to intensify and to widen the work
already begun by a FAO-financed research officer who had been working with
TRA already since 1980. Because of this the actual one-year delay of
implementing this two-year project phase did not lead to a full loss of one
season. The FAO expert was able to initiate the necessary survey work and
some preliminary work on research equipment, the latter in informal
cooperation with the instrumentation technician who had already been
selected and was waiting in Malawi to get his contract. Due to various
administrative delays, the actual project phase financed under TA II began
about mid-1985 and comprised two major lines of action:
-    Research, mainly done by the instrumentation technician in
cooperation with the FAO Research Officer, related primarily to
barn trials measuring wood consumption for different existing
and improved barn types. For one season this work was done in



- 30 -                         ANNEX
five different regions of Malawi; for the next season research
was concentrated in one location allowing a much more controlled
ano systematic comparison of different technical solutions and
firing practices.
-    Extension, done by an extension expert with more than 20 years
of experience in extension work in Malawi, comprised the
development of extension material (and a monthly bulletin) on
the research findings and their application. as well as the
active dissemination through workshops and visits to tobacco
growers.
38.       Apart from the two-year assignment of the two expatriate
experts, research equipment and vehicles worth 126.000 SDR were financed
under the TA II project.
39.       With the end of the project phase financed under TA II much had
been achieved (see 5 below), but the project objectives had not been fully
fulfilled. In fact, it had been planned from the outset that a further
project phase (perhaps even at a wider scale) would have to follow.
Therefore, the instrumentation technician was given a second contract of
approximately two years, and the former FAO advisor to TRA, after the end
of his contract in November 1987, stayed with the energy project under a
special trust fund agreement with FAO financed by UNDP/World Bank Energy II
Project. From the same funds some further equipment was provided (partly
even before the end of the TA II project phase).
Organization and Supervision
40.       While the team leader was working under a UNDP/FAO contract, the
two experts financed under TA II were working under individual work con
tracts with the Government of Malawi, represented through the Ministry of
Finance. In organizational terms the project suffered considerably from
the following weaknesses:
-    The financing under TA II provided but one phase (about two
years) of a project which actually started already before that
phase and which had to go beyond that phase. This created a
substantial amount of uncertainty as to the long-term
perspectives of the project, and it certainly did not facilitate
a consistent project management by the Bank and the Government
of Malawi.
-    At the time of the TA II project phase the management and
administration of the Tobacco Research Authority was weak and
not really able to actively support the project in terms of
logistics and financial administration (including liaison with
the Ministry of Finance).
-    The Ministry of Finance did not take an active role in the
administration of any of the individual sub-projects of TA II.
Responsibilities for dealing with the individual sub-projects



- 31 -                          ANNEX
were not defined; the project personnel often did not know whom
to approach in matters relating to their work contract. The
Bank field office did not offer assistance on such matters.
41.       No counterparts were provided for the experts financed under TA
II. Even after establishing the required posts, it was not possible to get
them filled. Potential candidates were reluctant to join the project
because of its uncertain perspective. Only from April 1988 counterparts
were employed after establishing the respective posts with TRA proper (not
with the project as such).
42.       In contrast to some other sub-projects of TA II this component
was fairly closely supervised or guided by Bank staff, particularly by the
sector staff taking a quite active interest in this project and its
results. From what could be established from the files, supervision
missions took place initially about once a year, later twice a year. The
project team reported fairly regularly on the project's progress. In fact,
this is the only sub-project on which some progress reports could be found
in the TA II project files.
Achievements, Success
43.       Up to now the project made substantial achievements.  However,
it is not possible to clearly isolate those achievements which were made
during the phase financed under the 'free-standing' TA II agreement. The
major achievements are:
-    The project has clearly established that flue-curing of tobacco
is possible with an input of less than 10 cubic meters of fire
wood per ton of tobacco using low-investment technology.
-    Suitable technical solutions have been developed, tested and are
being propagated through extension material.
-    The project has caused a general awareness of the fuel wood
problem and the savings potential amongst growers. An extension
system (with five agents in different regions coordinated by an
extension engineer at TRA) has been made operational and will be
able to further propagate the project's message for some time to
come.
-    It is estimated that, with strong influence by the project,
total fuel wood consumption in flue-curing of tobacco in Malawi
has been reduced by 502 since 1984. This means that about
400.000 cubic meters are saved annually. Valued at 15 K per
cubic meter (a price just reflecting the logging and transport
operations, not the true value of the wood), this amounts to
annual savings in the range of 5 to 6 million K. There is
likely to be a potential for further cutting down the wood
consumption to about 50t of the present level.



- 32-                           ANNEX
44.       This is a  projecto in the true sense:  it aims at achieving a
specific objective (reduction of fire wood consumption), not at
establishing or strengthening an institution for carrying out long-term
tasks. On the job training effects were very limited during the TA II
period since no counterparts were available to the Bank-financed experts.
A substantial transfer of knowledge, however, has taken place since spring
1988 vhen counterparts finally were employed.
Issues. Special Remarks
45.  -    Little direct links to SAL.
-    'Free-standing" technical assistance provided the funds only for
a certain period and certain parts of a project which should
have been regarded as one entity.
Severe weaknesses in the management and administration of the
Malawian implementing agency caused substantial delays. The
Bank's monitoring and support was not strong enough to help over
come the difficulties.
Case F:   Comprehensive Human Resources Study (Manpower survey) for the
Department of Personnel, Management and Training (DPHT)
Sources of Information
46.       Bank files; Malawi Government, Comprehensive Human Resources
Study-An Assessment of Manpower and Development - Results of the 1987
Manpower Survey (Draft February 1988).
Context and Obiectives
47.       The context of this study is not quite clear.  None of the
various reports or agreements on SAL or technicul assistance mentions the
non-availability of data on human resources or manpower (existing or
missing) as a problem deserving specific attention. An issues paper on SAL
II and TA II dated July 29, 1983 refers to a proposed consultancy on
personnel policy guidelines and a public service manpower and training
program. How ever, this proposal is neither identical with the
comprehensive human resources study nor made it its way into the actual
agreement on TA IT.
48.       The official request (telex from May 29, 1985) reads as follows:
I... we propose to carry out a human resource development study to produce
a public and private sector manpower development program to enable the
government meet the national objectives of self-sufficiency in skills in
short supply. This study is related to the achievement of the
institutional development objectives of the government's ongoing structural
adjustment program'. This study was not mentioned in the credit agreement
on TA II; however, that agreement envisaged (under part F of Schedule 2)



- 33 -                          ANNEX
"other studies associated with the second structural adjustment
project...'. This connection to SAL is not obvious.
Input and Activities
49.       By mid-1986 the government entered into an agreement with ILO to
carry out the study, based on a proposal elaborated by a consultant before.
Under this contract ILO was to provide two long-term experts for about one
year each plus short-term assignments of two consultants (among which the
consultant who had drawn up the proposal). The Chief Advisor (from Ghana)
arrived by November 1986, the second advisor (statistician, from Sierra
Leone) by March 1987. The survey involved substantial field work; more
than 1.100 establishments and more than 30.000 skilled employees were
covered. Processing of data was planned to be fully handled by the Data
Processing Unit (DPU) of the Ministry of Finance, but had to be done partly
with DPMT's own resources. A draft report was produced by end-1987; the
final version is being printed at the time of this evaluation.
Organization and Supervision
50.       The remarkable feature of this sub-project is the discrepancy
between the original cost (and time) estimate and the actual requirements.
It appears that the original proposal grossly under-estimated the work and
time required to get the sufficient number of enumerators and supervisors
selected and trained, and to get the required number of questionnaires
returned from the respondents (establishments and individuals). There may
have been some differences of opinion in interpreting the original work
proposal, leading to more work than originally intended. The files show
that the government asked for three (March, August and October 1987)
additions (total approximately US$127.000) to the project's budget of
originally US$321.000. The Bank's reaction cannot be fully ascertained
from the files. According to information from the Ministry of Finance
total disbursements amounted to approximately SDR 350.000.
51.       According to information from DPMT there was no real supervision
from the Bank (except for casual talks during missions having a different
focus). ILO representatives came twice to assist in overcoming the
difficulties the project had run into.
Achievements. Success
52.       There has been some disagreement regarding the quality of the
study. Some particularly critical comments from the Bank's Field Officer
seem to have reduced its 'sales value".
53.       In DPMT's view (shared by the author) the study, in spite of
some weaknesses, can be regarded as a useful basis for setting priorities
in planning future investments in manpower training. It not only provides
data on existing (and missing) skilled manpower but also comments on avail
able training capacity and the priority needs for expanding such capacity.



- 34 -                          ANNEX
54.       The Malawian members of the team (4 professionals) have learned
in the process (including some short-term training abroad). However, this
training effect was not sustainablet the four Ma.awian team members who
have gained some experience in planning, organizing and evaluating the
manpower survey have left the Manpower Unit of DPMT. None of them is
available to assist in *selling" the product to potential users and to
serve as a bridge for future up-dating of the data generated in this
survey.
Issues. Special Remarks
55.  -    What really was the link to the SAL operations? (there may be a
link to the new institutional development project, particularly
to its component 'Malawi Institute of Management").
-    Unrealistic project design resulting in under-funding.
-    Rigid/inflexible time frame for long-term expert secondments
through organizations of the UN system is not conducive to
organizing a work process as required for this type of study.
-    Complete loss of training effect because Malawian staff members
left the Manpower Unit of DPMT (by transfer or voluntarily).
Case G:   Support to the Ministry of Finance: Debt Management Unit (TA I
and TA II)
Sources of Information
56.       Bank files; aide memoire, debt management mission, June 1988;
internal MOF status report (in connection with review of SAL III?): Malawi
debt management system; minutes of the Malawi public debt task force
meeting held on 5th December, 1988.
Context and Obiectives
57.       During preparations for SAL I and TA I the need for
strengthening Malawi's debt management capacity was emphasized. The
President's Report on TA I (para. 62) states: "Although Malawi's debt
reporting and management performance had been satisfactory in the past
there is a need to strengthen debt management and to monitor more closely
external borrowing ...; it was further agreed during negotiations that a
Bank staff member would visit Malawi .... to assist the government in
standardizing and streamlining its debt reporting system". However, no
explicit provision was made under TA I for technical assistance in this
field.
58.       Nevertheless, the final disbursement statements on TA I (and the
PCR, para. 2.66) show what disbursements have been made for support to debt
management. Neither the exact amount nor the type of support are known
since the disbursement figures refer to a total which also includes



- 35 -                          ANNEX
services to ADMARC. The PCR does not give any further detail on the
technical assistance in regard to debt management under TA I. It is
assumed that the disbursements refer to purchases of some computer hardware
and possibly a short-term consultancy "to finish computerizing the
recording and monitoring system" (mentioned in the President's Report on TA
II, para. 102, but not mentioned in the PCR on TA I).
59.       The President's Report on TA II emphasizes the "continued
improvements in institutions dealing with external debt and investment
screening" as one of the important aspects of the government's development
policy in the context of the Second Structural Adjustment Credit (para.
28), and it makes the "strengthening the debt management capabilities of
the Ministry of Finance' an explicit component of the TA II project (para.
102)s
"The project includes funds to computerize the system (purchase of
micro-computer and associated equipment) and six to eight months of
consultant services to strengthen further the debt management system
including helping formulate an appropriate debt management policy".
Input and Activities
60.       The actual implementation of this proposal (and some more
precise targets for a second phase) may be read from a telex dated April
21, 1986, from the Ministry of Finance to the Bank: "Under the technical
assistance loan II, credit 1428 MAI, the Ministry of Finance acquired a
Burroughs B25 micro-computer system for use in developing the debt
management capabilities in the Ministry of Finance. It has become
necessary that we acquire additional equipment in order to affect phase II
of the Malawi Debt Management Program. Phase I developed and tested the
computer programs for debt stocks and flows, and updated the existing data
on debt. Phase II will develop the capability for simulations,
projections, and the incorporation of micro-economic variables into the
analysis of debt. This phase will enhance capability for decision-making
and choice of debt management options. The equipment will also provide
additional capacity to enable projections and analysis of the recurrent and
development budgets. The required equipment will include two micro-computer
terminals of at least 10 megabytes each....; training wll also be required
for the full utilization of the system. The estimated cost for the
equipment and supporting elements.... amounts to US$65,000
61.       According to a supervision report (July 1986) a Bank mission
recommended a modified list of purchases (expected cost totalling
US$30,000) and "suggested that advisory assistance to firmly establish the
above described analytical capacity could be financed from the project".
62.       Such technical assistance was actually replaced by free
assistance from the Bank's own External Debt Division. The system has been
developed in consultation with Malawian professionals, and in particular a
systems analyst who joined the unit in 1982 (coming from the data
processing department) and left the unit in spring 1987.



- 36-                           ANNEX
Organization and Supervision
63.       The debt management's system is part of MOF's Economic Affairs
Division. In terms of personnel and equipment it is highly integrated with
the other tasks of that division and cannot be regarded as a separate unit.
64.       On the Bank's side, responsibility for supervision rested with
the Africa Region (Country Team and AFTPS), with the Debt and International
Finance Division, International Economics Department, giving extensive
assistance, sending seven missions to the country in five years.
Achievements, Success
65.       The present state of the system and its utilization may be
described by quoting the "aide memoire' produced by a June 1988 mission:
"the mission was pleased to note that progress has been made since the
inception of the project in inter-agency communication on debt issues and
that the computer system is, in most respects, ccmplete. However, while
only some minor problems exist in the computer programs, the system is
still not being effectively used. The mission determined that the causes
of these problems were:
(a) Inadequate data collection, partly due to insufficient
communication between the various agencies having access to debt
information and lack of clear guidelines on the responsibilities
of each agency;
(b) Lack of knowledge of the system capabilities by users, due to
insufficient documentation and minimal communication of system
capabilities to people who could use the information;
(c)  Poor data quality in the computer's data base, due to inadequate
and inappropriate staffing in the debt unit, inadequate
programmatic validation of data, and insufficient checking of
data after it has been entered into the computer;
(d) Insufficient knowledge and testing of system functions, due to
staff-turnover and lack of systematic testing procedures;
(e)  Incomplete records in the ledgers maintained il. the office of
the Accountant General."
66.       Following the recommendations of the mission mentioned above, a
task force has been created recently which involves representatives from
HOF, Accountant General, Department of Planning and Development, Reserve
Bank of Malawi. The group will have to improve and secure the flow of data
on which the system fully depends. The group also will have to clarify the
division of labor (complementary functions) of the debt unit in MOF, the
debt information system of the Reserve Bank of Halawi and the (to be
established) debt management system in the Department of Economic Planning
and Development. Within MOF, apart from the need to check and clean up the
existing data files, the main task still seems to be to build up an



-37-                           ANNEX
analytical capacity sufficient to really make use of the system, i.e., a
team of economists really versed in the mechanisms of international
financial markets and possible strategies of debt management.
Issues. Special Remarks
67.  -    Planned technical assistance in the form of consultancies was
replaced by free assistance from Bank's own External Debt
Division.
-    Professional capacity of the MOE staff was not sufficiently
developed to make full use of the facilities for simulations and
analysis of alternative strategies.
Case H:   Support to the Ministry of Finance:  Foreign training and other
activities aiming at institutional development
Preliminary Remarks:
68.       Apart from strengthening the debt management unit (see chapter
above) the Bank has been assisting the Ministry of Finance in two other
lines: in financing short-term training abroad for MOE staff members
(under Technical Assistance II), and in financing a number of studies and
consultancies as preliminary steps to a more long-term strengthening of the
MOE. The latter is expected to take shape in an Institutional Development
Project (IDP) which is to combine Bank assistance with assistance from
other donors (particularly UNDP) and which would relate to strengthening
MO? as well as establishing a Malawi Institute of Management (MIM). The
studies and consultancies relating to IDP have been partly financed under
SAL III and mainly under a Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
69.       The training abroad as well as the activities oriented to IDP
are still ongoing. This is why this report can only briefly coment on
these activities and cannot follow the same outline as the reports above.
Trainina Abroad
70.       Schedule 2 of the Credit Agreement 1428 provides the project
components of TA II. Training is included in two of the five explicitly
defined project components: strengthening the EPD Energy Unit (Part A) and
strengthening the Ministry of Finance's debt management capabilities (Part
E). There is no provision for training in general, and the most flexible
Part F (other studies associated with the Second Structural Adjustment
Project...') provides for studies and not for training.
71.       In 1987 MO? asked the Bank to agree to financing under TA II
some individual short-term training measures (MO? staff members attending
courses abroad). The Bank agreed although the link between the course
topics and debt management (Part E of Schedule 2) appears to be somewhat
vague. The Bank-financed MOF training 'prOgram' obviously gained momentum
in mid-1988 when it became obvious that commitments and disbursements under



- 38 -                          ANNEX
the TA II Agreement were lower than expected. A proposal for extension of
the closing date of the Agreement to June 30, 1989 (memo from the Country
Department (AF6CO) dated June 17, 1988) gives the following information:
"Almost US$ 200.000 is still to be committed under the project (including
approximately US$ 90.000 which is being reimbursed by the government from a
previous duplicate disbursement). Funds are still left in the project
because expenditures have not been as high as expected and new uses have
not come up as quickly as anticipated. All of these funds should be
committed and disbursed during the next year. Most of them will be used
for foreign training and seminars, with some to also go for additional
computers for the Ministry of Finance....". At the time of this evaluation
MOF had prepared a list of training cases to be financed under TA II giving
the names of 16 staff members (including the cases from 1987) with the
topics and the cost (some in the range of 5.000-10.000 K, mostly in the
range of 25.000-35.000 ') of their training.  The total cost of this
training "program" amounts to approx. 100.000 SDR. According to the desk
officer (multi-lateral) at MOF an agreement on funding this program under
TA II (or if a re-calculation of actual disbursements would show a shortage
of funds: under PPF for IDP) was reached during a supervision mission of
the Bank's Country Officer in July 1988. The Aide Memoire on this visit
does not explicitly refer to the subject of widening the training
assistance to such a wide range of training topics (not related to debt
management). The list of topics includes:
-    Investment planning, appraisal and management for development
finance institutions.
-    Agricultural and rural project management.
-    Public budgeting and financial management.
-    Public enterprise policy and management.
-    Use of computers in financial management.
-    Use of computers in public budgeting and financial management.
-    Procurement and material management.
72.       Such courses have a duration of 6-10 weeks and are held mostly
in UK or USA. The list also shows several participants in World Bank
disbursement seminars, partly in Washington, D.C., partly in Kenya.
73.       In the course of this study four of the trainees (two economists
and two administration officers) were interviewed. All of them stated and
explained that the course content was relevant for (at least a part of)
their present task at HOF. However, all of them also stated, that their
participation in that specific training program was not the outcome of a
deliberate planning effort on the part of the Ministry; it was mainly an
outcome of own initiative after having heard of specific courses being
offered by training institutions in the US or UK, and funds being
potentially available under the TA II scheme. This may be a quite normal



- 39 -                         ANNEX
procedure. However, it is somewhat surprising in a situation where, at the
same time, a UNDP-financed consulting firm is drawing up a Development Plan
for the Ministry of Finance whose implementation (as part of the IDP) was
to involve a thorough planning of future manpower and related training
needs of MOF.
74.       This evaluation does not provide a basis for really criticizing
the decisions made. However, there are reasons to believe that the actual
shape which this training took was heavily 'supply-driven't The avail
ability of unutilized funds, and the fact that courses were actively
advertised by institutions in the US and UK, very much intensified the 1988
HOF training 'program' which, of course, was in line with the wide-spread
individual prefer^nces for attending training courses abroad. Although all
the training cases were certainly endorsed by the superiors of the
trainees, there are no indications that these endorsements were part of a
well-thought-of concept taking into consideration that the Bank's
assistance to this training came in the form of a credit, a form of
assistance otherwise rarely used for financing training abroad.
Other Assistance to the Ministry of Fin nce
75.       Apart from the attempts to  Lrengthen the Ministry of Finance's
debt management capacity, efforts have been made for several years to lay
the ground for a more long-term process of strengthening the Ministry's
capacity in other areas, namely relating to a reform of Malawi's tax system
and to an improvement of the accounting and budgeting processes. In the
context of SAL III (partly financed under SPPF) some preliminary studies
were carried out for both of these areas. From the end of 1987 and the
beginning of 1988 two groups of consultants have been working on a follow-
up which was meant to lead to a several-years' process of technical
cooperation under a new Institutional Development Project which would
comprise the establishment of the Malawi Institute of Management and
strengthening the Ministry of Finances
(a) A group of experts from Price Waterhouse (London), financed by
UNDP, has been preparing a study for the Ministry of Finance
giving specific attention to human resources and information
systems, economic strategy and forward budgeting, formulation of
budgets, expenditure monitoring and government accounting, as
well as cash and debt management and claims processing. A draft
report of the study (which was more the "blueprint" type) was
rejected both by the Government and the Bank in November 1988.
The consultant's final version provides a more flexible approach
which recognizes that institutional development is an organic
process which evolves over time and cannot be specified rigidly
in advance, which is a basic lesson from Case H.
(b)  A resident advisor and several short-term consultants from
Harvard Institute of International Development (HIID) have been
assigned to assist OF in the implementation of a tax reform
program. After studies undertaken in 1985-86 the Government
decided to implement a tax reform program and signed a US$2.4



.. 40 -                         ANNEX
million con tract in 1987. The initial payments made under SAL
III with the IDP funding the remainder of the contract. Some
thought was given to extending the program but, during the IDP
approval, the Government said it wanted first to evaluate
progress under the existing program. While IDP includes no
funds for an extension of the program, this issue may be again
discussed with the Bank as MOF has indicated recently that it
wishes to proceed with an extension of the tax program.
76.       Both the present technical assistance components as described
under (a) and (b) above were organized in the form of consulting contracts.
These contracts were made for a limited period focusing on specific tasks,
including the formulation of a tax reform program for future implementation
(HIID contract) and a study (PW) which looked very much as a 'blueprint of
things to be done in the first draft but was then revised with a more
flexible approach.
-    In both cases the selection of the consulting group was made
with the view (though without obligation) that these firms may
continue their work also through a future phase.
-    Especially in case (a) the first draft suggested a "blueprint"
on the basis of which one would enter into new technical
assistance agreements. When terms of reference are not very
clear from the outset, consultants may be tempted not to be too
moderate in defining the future technical assistance needs.
-    By end 1988, the Malawi Government was not really satisfied with
the initial results achieved so far. Reservations referred to
both the substance of proposals and the form of their
presentation respectively the form of communication between the
consultants and their Malawian partners. In respect to (a) the
consultants seem not to have sufficiently considered the
achievements and improvements already made by the Ministry of
Finance (which should be regarded as the starting point of
further action) and the need to organize institutional changes
as a process fully led by the Malawi Government rather than by a
pre-designed technical assistance program. In the case of (b)
the consultants (especially the resident advisor) were not
sufficiently successful in establishing a policy dialogue with
the representatives of the Malawi Government.
-    Because of these reservations the Ministry of Finance at present
did not wish to be obliged to continue the cooperation with the
consulting firms contracted so far and, in the case of (b), has
suggested an external evaluation to be made before the end of
the present contract.
77.       In November 1988 it seemed uncertain whether the Bank at all
would be involved in the future strengthening of the Ministry of Finance
through technical assistance, or whether the Malawi Government prefers to
draw the necessary technical assistance from other sources, namely the



- 41 -                          ANNEX
UNDP. The fact that the Bank's technical assistance was to be given on a
credit basis, as against the grants given by other donors, may play a
significant role in this context. However, another significant
consideration seemed to be that the Bank's modalities for giving technical
assistance may not be conducive to organizing a flow of technical
assistance sufficiently flexible to support processes of institutional
change.
78.       As shown in a paper given as Annex B to an Aide Memoire
submitted by Bank staff to the Government in November 1988, the Bank's
financing requirements would require the Ministry of Finance to 'prepare a
concise plan for its proposed strengthening program (DEVPLAN). The DEVPLAN
should provide a clear basis for the subsequent preparation of bidding
documents for any consultancy services it entails n. This is further
qualified by statements as: "each component should be described in terms
of what exactly should occur during the project period April 1989 to April
1994...'; 'the types of expert assistance by specialty should be
identified, and whether it can be provided locally. The aggregate amount
of time for each consultant and the estimated cost by staff month should be
provided'.
79.       This is in some contrast to concerns raised by the Malawi
Government during the recent IDP appraisal mission which have been
summarized under the heading "Principles and Basic Strategy" in a paper
given as Annex A to the Aide Memoire (title: Defining the Ministry of
Finance Component of the IDP - A Possible Approach). Some paragraphs of
that chapter which seem particularly relevant in this context are quoted
belows
Para. 5   The strengths of the existing system and institutions must
be recognized and built upon.
Para. 6   Precisely because there are considerable strengths in
current performance, it is important to minimize risks. This has at least
two direct implications:
(a) Initial efforts should go towards improving existing systems
(e.g., the computerized accounting system) rather than seeking
to start afresh.
(b)  The programme's approach to training shoula be diffuse:  i.e.,
the maintenance of an improved system should not be all - 1 t
depend on the retention of a single trained iniaividual.
Para. 7   The programme must be led by the Malawi Government, and any
external inputs must be in support of a well defined government strategy.
Para. 9   The programme should distinguish between short and longer
term components, and recognize that it may not be possible to define all
components in detail at the outset. What is required is not a complete
blue print for the programme but a coherent strategy that will set up a



- 42 -                         ANNEX
continuing process of strengthening - a process that is led and managed by
MOP in collaboration with other agencies.
Para. 10 MOF should establish appropriate Task Forces to be
responsible for developing and implementing the strengthening programme.
Each Task Force would have a full-time secretariat. MOF itself should
identify what external support (whether in the form of consultancies or
more extended technical assistance) each task force would require.
Para. 11 Separate Task Forces should be set up to deal with the main
distinct elements of the strengthening programme....
80.       It seems that these principles contain an important message for
planning and organizing technical assistance in support to institutional
development, particularly in the case of support to core institutions like
the Ministry of Finance or Central Planning Agencies.
[wpSO\doc\malawi\ta2II.pcr]



