Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Repout No. P-3662-AI
REPORT AND  EO NDIO
OF TE
PRESIDENT OF TUE
T     N         BANK FOM RECOSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 1.4 MIL2LION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MUALWI
FOR A
SECOND TECECAL ASSISTACE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 29, 1983
-
This d_cinet has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
C,urrency Units                    Malavi Kvacha (MK) and Tambala
SDR 1.00                            MK 1.3577
USSU.Oo                  -          MK 1.25
MK 1.00                             US$.80
WEIGHITS um  MEASURES
1 foot (ft)                         0.305 meters (a)
1 mile (mi)              -          1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (mi2)                 2.590 square kilometers (km2)
1 ton (t)                -          0.907 metric tons (m ton)
(As the malavian KRacha is officially valued in relation to a basket of the
currencies of MalawiTs trading partners, the USdollar/Malawian Kwacba
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report were made
at US$1.00 =  K 1.25.)
GLOSSARY OF ABEVIAIONS
ADMARC                   Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
AfDB            =        African Development Bank
CCDC                     Capital City Development Corporation
DRIMP                    District Roads Improvement and Maintenance Program
DSB                      Department of Statutory Bodies
EDF             =        European Development Fund
EPD             -        Economic Planning Division
(Office of the President and Cabinet)
ERR                      Economic Rate of Return
ESCOK                    Electricity Supply Commission
INDEBANK                 Investment Development Bank
MDC             =        Malawi Development Corporation
MRw             =        Malawi Housing Corporation
KTC             -        Ministry of Transport and Communications
MTI                      Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism
MWS                      Ministry of Works and Supplies
NRDP            =        National Rural Development Program
ODA                      Overseas Development Adminfstration
OILCOb!                  Oil Company of Nalswi
PGL             -        Press Group limited
PVHO            -        Plant and Vehicle Hire Organization
TMA             -        Tobacco Research Authority
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:      Republic of Malawi
AMOUNT:        A development credit of SDR 1.4 million (US$1.5 million
equivalent)
TERMS:         Standard
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:   The proposed pro,ect supports the related structural adjust-
ment credit which is being submitted separately. It alms at
assisting the Government in achieving its goals of improved
energy planning and coordination, substantially reducing its
consumption of fuelwood, improving its pricing of power and
industrial commodities, strengthening the debt and financial
management capabilities of the Ministry of Finance and the
agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC)
and in carrying out its structural adjustment program.
Specifically, the proposed three year project would finance:
(a) an energy economist/planner, consultant services for a
power tariff study, in-service and overseas training and
office supplies for the newly established Energy Unit in the
Economic Planning Division (EPD); (b) vehicles, operating
expenses and engineering and consulting services for a pilot
fuelvood savings program for the Tobacco Research Authority
(TRA); (c) consultant services to examine price controls for
industrial commodities; (d) a financial controller and fin-
ancial analyst to be seconded to ADMARC; (e) consultant sup-
port, equipment and in-service training for the Debt Manage-
ment Unit of the Ministry of Finance; and (f) consultant
services for other studies needed to carry out the structur-
al adjustment program.  Overall responsibility for project
execution and monitoring rests with the Ministry of Fin-
ance. The proposed project would be implemented by EPD, the
Electricity Supply Commission (C..COM), TRA, ADMARC, and the
Ministry of Trade and Industry. As a result of tie project,
Malawi would have developed a medium term energy investment
plan which addresses its major energy problems, a fuelwood
savings program to reduce the level of wood consumption by
40 percent by 1990, a revised power tariff structure
reflecting the long run marginal costs to the economy of
meeting the demand for electricity in Malawi, a phased
program for decontrolling industrial prices, and an improved
system of financial and debt management.
This documen has a restrited distributon and may bc used by rcipents only in the orfortmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization



- II -
Risk:          The most important risk is one inherent in all technical
assistance projects of this kind, namely, that expatriate
staff may not become fully integrated into the local system,
and that their relations with Malawian personnel may not be
as effective as required to fully achieve the objectives of
the project. The other major risk is that delays may occur
both in the execution of the project and in follow-up of the
recommendations to be put forward. Appropriate steps have
been taken to reduce this risk by: (i) early identification
of most of the technical assistance personnel by the
Government in consultatioa with the Association; (ii)
identifying and actively involving project counterparts in
study design and implementation; and (iii) agreeing with
Government on a timetable for exchanging views on follow-up
of the studies.



- iii -
Estimated Cost                                  Local  Foreign  Total
-    $US '000-
Assistance to EPD and ESCOM
Energy economist/planner                         20     160     180
Consultant services for a power                  20     130     150
tariff study
Training (incl.travel expenses)                  10      40      50
Equipment and support services                   10      20      30
Subtotal                                60     350      410
Assistance to TRA
Equipment (for barn improvements)                15      33      48
Extension (incl. engineer and
vehicles)                                       7     120     162
Research and evaluation (incl.
consultant services, equipment
and vehicle)                                    5     160     130
Subtotal                                27     313      340
Assistance to Ministry of Trade and Industry
Consultant services for price decontrol
study                                           5      40      45
Assistance to ADMARC
Financial Controller                             10     110     120
Financial Analyst                                20   - 220     240
Subtotal                                40      320     360
Assistance to Debt Management Unit
Equipment                                         0      60      60
Consultant Services                               2      30      32
Training (incl. travel expenses)                  0       8       8
Subtotal                                 2       98     100



- iv -
Assistance to Ministry of Finance
Consultant services related to the
structural adjustment program                15      85      200
Baseline Costs                                 149    1166    1315
Physical Contingencies                          -       10      10
Price Contingencies                             50     325     375
Subtotal                               50     335     385
GRAND TOTAL                                199    1501    1700
Financing Plan                                 Local Foreign  Total
$US '000
IDA                                             -    1501    1500
Government                                     199       0     199
Total                                 199    1501    1700
Estimated Disbursements         FY84    FY85    FY86   FY87
Annual                          -      700      600     100
Cumulative                    100      800    1400    1500
Economic Rate of Return:        N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:         None prepared.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Malawi for SDR 1.4 million (US$1.5 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms, to assist in financing a second
technical assistance project.
PART I.  THE ECONOMY 1
2.        A report entitled -Malawi: Growth and Structural Change, A Basic
Report' (Report No. 3082a-MAI) dated February 8, 1982, was circulated to
the Executive Directors on March 9, 1982. Annexes to the report were
distributed on June 26, 1981. Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        Malawi is a small (118,500 sq. km), densely-populated (about six
million people in 1981) landlocked country in southeastern Africa. Its
main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a
climate favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no
known substantial mineral resources.
Background and Development Strategy
4.        When Malawi gained independence in 1964, its economy was
charaterized by surplus labor and few natural resources other than a
favorable climate and moderately fertile agricultural land. It lacked
capital, technology, entrepreneurship, skilled labor and managerial
talent. Being landlocked, it has to depend on other countries for access
to the sea.
5.        Despite these constraints, the Government was determined to
achieve rapid, sustained economic development. It has opted for an
outward-looking, export-oriented growth based on agriculture and agro-based
manufacturing. This strategy has been reflected in the Government's
policies toward the agricultural and manufacturing sectors, and toward the
roles of domestic and foreign investment. In order to attract foreign
capital and managerial skills, government policy has encouraged the
establishment of an open, market-oriented ecanomv with the private sector
1 This section is the same as Part I of the President's Report on the
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (Report No. P3663-MAI).



as the primary engine of economic growth. The role of public enterprises
has been limited to a few key sectors and to that of investment partners
with the private sector. Relatively low tariffs and limited use of
quantitative restrictions on imports have prevented the emergence of
inefficient local import substitution industries so characteristic of many
other developing countries. The Governuent has deliberately restrained
those forces which would raise wages above market-determined levels (e.g.,
trade unions, excessive decreed wage increases), thus encouraging the
establishment of labor-intensive manufacturing firms and agricultural
estates. Moderate wage expansion, coupled with growitig labor productivity
in most sectors of the economy, has helped to keep Malawian goods
competitive in international trade. Wage moderation has also kept the
demand for labor high and the resultant rapid expansion of employment
opportunities has helped control the rural-urban income gap and hence the
rate of internal migration.
6.        Public investment has been intended primarily to support private
efforts in the directly productive sectors through provision of essential
infrastructure, public utilities and supporting services. The Government
has opted for a two-pronged approach to agriculture, involving the
traditional smallholder and estate sectors. The smallholder sector has
produced the food crops and a limited amount of export crops while the
estate sector has concentrated on the major exports of tobacco, tea and
sugar (see para. 48 for details). Attaching high priority to public
investment in the traditional sector, the Government has undertaken, in the
past, a number of regional integrated rural development projects involving
provision of infrastructure and agricultural inputs and services. More
recently, it embarked on the National Rural Development Program (NRDP), an
ambitious 20-year program designed to extend agricultural services to
smallholders country wide. The estate sector has been left largely in
private hands (except for public enterprise participation in sugar and in
some tobacco estates) and the Government has limited its role to that of
providing a favorable investment climate. The Government's decision to
emphasize directly productive sectors and related economic infrastructure
has resulted in relatively slower development of the social services such
as health and education until recent years.
Evaluation of Past Performance
7.        In terms of its stated objectives, Malawi has an impressive
record of accomplishments. Aggregate and per capita real incomes have
grown rapidly. Real GDP grew at an average rate of 5.5 percent per annum
over 1967-79 and per capita income at about 3.0 percent per annum. Growth
in all sectors (except in subsistence production) exceeded 5.0 percent per
annum. By 1979, GNP per capita in current prices reached US$190. Over the
same period, inflation averaged 9.0 percent per annum.



- 3 -
8.        At indepeiadence, investment constituted only 8.6 percent of GDP
and domestic savings were virtually nil (0.5 percent of GDP). The little
capital formation that took place had to be financed from foreign sources.
But since then, the picture has changed dramatically. Between 1967 and
1979, gross domestic investment grew at an average annual rate of 12.5
percent per annum, raising investment's share of GDP from 16 to 29
percent. The domestic resource mobilization effort has been even more
impressive. Domestic savings rose from 4 percent of GDP in 1967 to 17
percent in 1979, increasing the share of investment financed from domestic
sources to aboutt 60 percent. Owing mainly to government mobilization of
foreign assistance but with increasing contributions for private and public
enterprise ventures, net foreign long-term capital flows increased from a
total of US$66 million over 1967-69 to US$328 million over 1977-79.
9.        Over the 1967-79 period, export volume grew at an annual average
rate of 4.5 percent while import volume grew at 3.5 percent. Agriculture
accounts for some 90 percent of export earnings. Since 1967, agricultural
estate production grew much faster than smallholder output and during
1967-79, agricultural exports from estates expanded at 15.0 percent per
annum while smallholder exports recorded no growth. Thus the estates'
share of agricultural exports increased from 32 percent in 1967 to 65
percent in 1979 and 80 percent by 1981-82. Since estate exports are
tobacco, tea and sugar, the concentration of Malawi's exports has increased
significantly.
10.       The country's favorable export performance can be partly
attributed to the policy of moderate wage increases and to growing labor
productivity which has kept Malawi's products competitive in the
international market. Over the same period, wage employment expanded
almost as rapidly as the modern sector as a whole (over 8 percent per
annum) suggesting a labor-intensive pattern of growth.
Recent Economic Developments
11.       Notwithstanding these impressive achievements, the Malawian
economy, increasingly dependent on three primary commodity exports,
tobacco, tea and sugar, remained highly vulnerable to international price
fluctuations. (Production of previously important export crops,
particularly cotton, groundnuts and tung oil, declined and worker's
remittances, which were an important source of foreign exchange, were
greatly reduced.) Since 1974 the country experienced periodic balance of
payments disequilibria of increasing severity due primarily to (a) rapid
escalation in import prices, particularly of fuel and intermediate and
capital goods; (b) cyclical swings in export prices of tobacco, tea and
sugar; and (c) significantly higher costs of transport for both exports and
imports owing to rising ocean freight charges, port congestion in
Mozambique, and disruptions of the overland route.



12.       While the Government successfully steered the economy through
balance of payments crises in the past, the deterioration in the balance of
payments since 1978 has been less manageable. Between 1977-80 Malawi's
terms of trade fell by 40 percent. The petroleum import bill more than
doubled, raising its share in total imports from 10.2 percent in 1977 to
12.5 percent in 1980. In 1980 and 1981, agricultural production suffered
from drouzht. reducine export volumes and necessitating large imports of
maize, a commodity in which Malawi had been self-sufficient during most of
the 1970s. finally, disruptions of the transport system through Mozambique
forced Malawi to use more costly air, or alternarive rail and road routes.
As a consequence, Malawi's current account deficit rose sharplv from an
average of 8-9 percent of GDP ir the mid 1970s to an average of 20 percent
iN 1978-80 before falling to 12 percent in 1981 and 9 percent in 1982.
Capital inflows, although increased, did not cover current account deficits
and foreign exchange reserves fell from the equivalent of over five months
of imports to less than two months between 1977-82. Moreover, in contrast
-o past capital inflows which were mainly grants and soft loans, over 50
percent of the 1978-81 borrowings of US$570 million were on
aon-concessional terms. As a result, the debt service ratio climbed
rapidly from 7 percent in 1977 to 26.3 percent in 1981 and would have been
over AV percent in 1982 were it not for a rescheduling of Malawi's debt.
13.       Economic growth, savings and investment have declined sharply.
GDP growth fell from 5.5 percent in 1979 to only 0.4 percent in 1980 and
-0.8 percent in 1981 as virtuallv every sector contracted during the two
vear period. Growth was back up to 3.0 percent in 1982 and should be at a
similar level in 1983. While domestic savings declined somewhat,
investment dropped sharply from 34.3 percent of GDP in 1979 to 21.2 percent
in 1981 and 20.3 percent ifn 1982.
14.       Malawi's fiscal position also seriously deteriorated.  From
independence through 1977/78, government expenditures expanded roughlv in
line with GDP, and deficits rarely exceeded 7-8 percent of GDP.
Subsequently, however, rapidly rising expenditures outstripped revenues and
pushed government deficits up to an average of 13.6 percent during
1978/79-1981/82, before falling to 9.4 percent in 1982/83. Government
expenditures in these four years averaged around 33 percent of GDP compared
to 25 percent in the previous six years. To finance these deficits, the
Government resorted to increased domestic borrowing, mainly from the
monetary system, and foreign borrowing, partly on commercial terms.
Inflationary pressures grew and prices rose at an average rate of almost 13
percent per annum between 1979 and 1982.



-5-
Emerging Structural Problems
15.       While the primary cause of Malawi's economic difficulties was a
serious deterioration in the country's terms of trade and transport
cenditions, the crisis also revealed important structural weaknesses in the
economy. First, the heavy concentration of exports in a few estates
producing agricultural commodities; second, the slow growth of smallholder
production for export and the narrowness of the export base; third, the
modern sector's dependence on costly imported oil, and the progressive
depletion of domestic fuelvood -esources; fourth, the deteriorating
financial position of public enterprises; fifth, the budget deficits
described earlier (para. 14); sixth, a growing imbalance between government
recurrent and capital expenditures; seventh, rigidities in the system of
administered prices and wages.
16.       Concentration of Exports.  Malawi's exports are heavily
concentrated on tobacco, tea and sugar produced on estates. Each,
unfortunately faces uncertain growth prospects, both in terms of supply and
demand. In the first place, the shortage of suitable land will severely
limit any increase in output from extending cultivation. Any expansion
will have to come largely from higher yields. Moreover, a growing shortage
of fuelwood threatens the production of flue-cured tobacco and tea (which
requirts wood for drying). In addition, shortage of credit and scarcity of
managerial talent in the country are expected to become a serious
constraint to any rapid expansion of both burley and flue-cured tobacco.
Thie recent sharp drop in sugar prices and the imposition of quotas by the
United States has shown the vulnerability of this crop. For the estate
sector to recover and expand its foreign exchange earnings, diversifying
into other crops is essential.
17.       Slow Growth of Smallholder Production.  Following a decade of
rapid growth, smallholder produced exports of tobacco, cotton and
groundnuts have stagnated over the past ten years despite sizeable public
investments in smallholder agriculture. While such performance can partly
be attributed to limited coverage of past agricultural projects, low
producer prices have almost certainly played an important role. A
Government and Bank analysis has shown that, on balance, prices paid to
smallholders by the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
(ADMARC), which handles smallholder crops, have been less favorable than
those paid for estate produced crops sold on the world market. Within the
smallholder sector, maize and rice prodtuction have been subsidized while
production of export crops (i.e. cotton, groundnuts, and tobacco) have been
taxed. Incentives for expanding meat, poultry and dairy output, mostly
produced by smallholders, also are weak. In addition, the Government's
pricing decisions have been ad hoc and frequently arbitrary; since prices
were changed infrequently, the resultant quantum jumps, made adjustments
difficult for both consumers and producers.



- 6 -
18.       Cost of Energy.  Malawi is totally dependent on imported
petroleum. While imports increased only 8 percent in volume between 1977
and 1980, their cost doubled and as a share of total imports rose from 10
to 12.5 percent. Fuelwood accounts for some 80 percent of the total energy
consumed in Malawi. In the rural areas, wood is used for cooking and for
curing tobacco and tea. As a result of population growth and expansion in
tobacco and tea production, the demand for fuelwood is outstripping
available supplies, leading to deforestation and environmental
degradation. Thus, the Government faces the task of developing indigenous
energy sources in the rural areas and reducing the modern sector's
dependence on imported oil (paras. 91 and 92).
19.       Deteriorating Finances of the Public Enterprises.  As a group,
Malawi's statutory boards and public enterprises have functioned well both
by providing essential services with reasonable efficiency and by making a
contribution to their own investment requirements. However, the financial
condition of several has deteriorated since 1978. ADMARC, a government
marketing institution for smallholder crops, which has operated relatively
efficiently, suffered a substantial loss in 1980 as a result of higher fuel
costs, improper crop handling and poor transport planning. Air Malawi
suffered large losses on its intercontinental service which had to be
terminated at the end of 1979. Domestic tariffs were increased by 60
percent in early 1980 and international charter rates were raised later
that year. To reduce losses further, additional tariff increases on
domestic and cargo service may be necessary. Malawi Railways finances have
been adversely affected by rising fuel costs and transport problems at the
ports and on lines through Mozambique. Despite a 1979 tariff increase of
17 percent, the company suffered an operating loss for the first time since
1972 and its overall cash deficit, after debt service and renewal
investments, rose substantially. Hitherto financially sound Eleczricity
Supply Commission (ESCOM) also began to experience large cost overruns on
its Nkula project, primarily as a result of transport difficulties. While
annual tariff increases averaging 10 percent from 1979 to 1983, have helped
to alleviate the cash deficit, the company was still experiencinf cash flow
difficulties and has had to defer some payments on Government d -. The
Malawi Housing Corporation (MHC) and Capital City Development Corporation
(CCDC) have been channeling Government funds and external loans into
housing and construction of the new capital at Lilongwe, and are now
experiencing difficulties meeting their mounting debt service obligations
out of their low income from rents. MHC recently increased rents for low
cost housing by 40 percent but it is not generating sufficient funds even
to provide for maintenance. The Malawi Development Corporation (MDC) is a
wholly government-owned holding company with interests in agriculture and
agro-industry, manufacturing and commerce. Its financial position has



- 7 -
steadily deteriorated in recent years, as the liquidity position of its
subsidiaries declined with the onset of recent economic crises, and MDC has
had to provide more guarantees for its subsidiaries' borrowing. It has
also accumulated medium-term debt, borrowed mainly on hard terms to finance
equity investments. Given its large interest payments, MDC suffered
sizable losses during 1980 and 1981. The deterioration in the performance
of these public enterprises is having an adverse impact on the Central
Government's budget by increasing the requirements for subsidies or for
deferment of debt service owed to Government. In addition, the demand by
the public enterprises for new medium-term external credit and for
additional domestic borrowing has increased.
20.       Although nominally a private enterprise, Press (Holdings)
Limited's operations are so large that they have a profound impact on the
country's economic life. Press is a holding company with wholly-owned
subsidiaries and associate companies in most sectors of the economy,
including agriculture, industry, wholesale and retail trade, building and
construction, transportation, banking and insurance. Until 1979, Press and
its subsidiaries had been consistently profitable, but thereafter, the
group's financial position deteriorated rapidly. Press" enormous cash
needs have placed severe strains on Malawi's two commercial banks and this
led to restricted domestic credit expansion to the rest of the private
sector. A good start has been made on resolving Press' financial and
operational problems. Given the impact on the country's output, employment
and exports, early resolution is imperative.
21.       Budgetary Deficits and Underfunding of Recurrent Activities.  The
Government has generally managed its finances prudently. Revenue increased
as rapidly as GDP, the revenue accoun- consistently generated surpluses
(since 1972/73) to contribute to development expenditures, and budget
deficits have been relatively modest. Since 1978/79, however, the
Government's fiscal position has deteriorated. While revenues have
increased slightly faster than GDP, recurrent and development account
expenditures have grown even more rapidly owing to a rapid expansion of
development projects. In addition, there is growing evidence of
underfunding of recurrent budget requirements. Control over recurrent
expenditures has been tight because of domestic revenue constraints. On
the other hand, because of the availability of foreign finance on
concessionary terms, capital projects have been relatively easy to
finance. Thus, the expansion of government employment and expenditures for
goods and services has not kept pace with the growth of capital
expenditures. The problem is particularly acute in agriculture (and to a
lesser extent in road maintenance and in health). The lack of adequate
provision for recurrent operations reduces the benefits originally expected
from project investments.



- 8 -
22.       Rigidity of Price Controls and Wage Policy.  A system of formal
and informal price controls has evolved for most domestically manufactured
goods in Malawi over the past decade. The Ministry of Trade, Industry and
Tourism exercises formal controls over products such as cement, fertilizers
and sugar; and items important to low income consumers -vegetable oils,
bread, milk, matches and fish. In addition, manufacturers are required to
notify and receive comments from the Ministry before raising prices for
practically all other manufactured gods. Disincentives created by the
system have even grown with increased inflationary pressure. Long delays
between price increase applications and approval have adversely affected
the financial position of many businesses. Similar delays have
characterized granting of tariff increases for the country's principal
statutory bodies.
23.       The Government has also adopted a system of controls designed to
restrain real wage increases. However, the Government's practice of
holding down wagaz for long periods and then granting large wage increases
has teen destaILilizing for the economy. For example, the minimum wage for
urban unskilled workers, which had remained unchanged since 1973, was
increased bv 12.5 percent in 1980 and by additional 56 percent in January
1981. (Even with these quantum jumps the minimum wage in 1981 is only
three-quarters of its 1973 level in real terms.)
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S MEDIUM-TERM PROGRAM Z
24.       Recognizing these problems, the Government, in consultation with
the Bank and the DIMF, formulated a medium-term program covering
1981/82-1985/86 and developed a related technical assistance project. The
Government's major objectives for the five years were: (i) a real GDP
growth rate of 4.8 percent; (ii) increased diversification of foreign
exchange earnings or savings by developing new smallholder and estate
crops, accelerating smallholder export crop growth, livestock and forestry
industries and expanding agro-business; and (iii) improvement in the
financial performance of the Government and public enterprises to reduce
dependence on external resources and domestic borrowing and iicrease
foreign exchange reserves.
25.       The policies for achieving these objectives were incorporated in
a comprehensive structural adjustment program which aimed at improving (i)
the balance of payments, (ii) price incentives and income policies, (iii)
resource management, and (iv) the institutional structure. Specific policy
measures were:
2    This text is substantially the same as in Part II of the President's
Report on the Structural Adjustment Credit (Report No. 3663-MAI).



- 9 -
(i) Balance of Payments. Increased prices for
agricultural export crops with periodic
reviews; increased recurrent budgetary
allocation to the Ministry of Agriculture;
review of the efficiency of the agricultural
marketing organization; studies of the
livestock and tobacco sectors, including
diversification of tobacco estates; continued
adjustments in energy prices; and increased
agro-industrial investment.
Uiil Price incentives and tncomes.
Government review of the price and wage
control system with a view to introducing more
flexibility and more frequent adjustments;
increased public utility and transport tariffs
with closer monitoring and adjustment in the
future; studies of the railway and the
airline; a detailed plan for implementing
economic rentals of housing; and veriodic
review of the exchange rate.
'iii Resource Management. Establishment of Mte
Department of Statutory Bodies to assist
public enterprises in planning and financial
management: periodic review of interest rates;
steps to increase Government revenue to its
historic levels in rteiation to GDP;
strengthened control and monitoring of
domestic expenditure; improved monitoring and
management of public debt; limiting government
domestic and foreign borrowing to ceilings
agreed with the IMF; a new five-year
development program with increased shares for
directly productive sectors and social
services; a commitment to adequate levels of
recurrent financing for kev development
ministries.
(iv) Institurional Improvement. Establishment of
an Investment Coordinating Committee to
oversee all major investments; technical
assistance to strengthen key planning and
budgeting ministries; and rehabilitation of
the key public and private sector
conglomerates (notably Press Holdings, Ltd.)
through studies, improved management and
financial restructuring.



- 10 -
I-plementation
26.       Initially, implementation of the program was uneven.  On the
positive side, additional funds were allocated to the agricultural sector,
agricultural prices were adjusted, public utility tariffs were increased,
the Investments Coordinating Committee was established to screen all major
investments, a joint energy assessment study was carried out and steps were
taken to strengthen the management and the policies of Press.
27.       At the same time, however, there were areas where execution was
less satisfactory: inadequate expenditure control, delays in adjusting
government charges and prices, continued poor performance of many public
corporations and lack of public debt management. These combined with
continued adverse international developments (rising interest rates and
fuel prices, cyclical swings in export prices of tobacco, tea and sugar)
and poor weather, led to a serious deterioration in the Government's
budgetary position and the balance of payments. As a result, the
Government was not able to make its last two drawings in its two-year IMF
stand-by. There were also delays in starting the various studies
stipulated in the SAL, formal agreement between the Government and Press on
principles of restruLturing was slow in coming and the set of agricultural
prices chosen emphasized maize to the detriment of export crops. As a
result, the Bank delayed releasing the second tranche of the SAL, while
continuing discussions with the Government on steps that could be taken to
get the adjustment program back on track. After these discussions, the
Government agreed to modifications in the methodology of setting
agricultural prices, strengthened its ability to monitor and control
external debt and agreed on a debt servicing target. The studies
stipulated in the SAL began to progress well, the budget for 1982/83 was a
realistic one with sufficient resources provided for the major development
sectors, and agreement with the Fund on exchange rates was reached. The
second tranche was therefore released in April 1982.
The Revised Program
28.       The growth targets set out in the Government's program two years
ago, will not be realized soon. Since then problems with external
transport have continued to plav havoc with the country's external trade,
the world economy remains more depressed than had been projected and the
Governmental system of Malawi has been slow to make decisions and meet the
increased demands placed on it. As the Letter of Development Policy (Annex
IV of the Second Structural Adjustment Credit) makes clear, the Government
will continue to address the structural problems outlined in paragraphs
15-23. In continuing this program, however, some modifications and shifts
in emphasis are necessary. Specifically these include:



- 11 -
(i) further incentives for export crop production;
(ii) continued improvements in institutions dealing with external
debt and investment screening;
(iii) further work with statutory bodies to strengthen them
managerially and financially;
Civ) implementation of the agreement on Press' reorganization and
debt servicing;
(v) further upgrading of the Government's capacity to budget,
plan, implement and monitor its programs; and
(vi) increased revenues and cost effectiveness which are needed
to bring the budget in line.
29.       The Letter of Development Policy takes cognizance of these
problems and outlines an action program for dealing with them. In this
program the Government will build upon the foundation laid during the last
two years, shoring up weak points and branching into other areas that have
emerged as crucial to a successful adjustment. The program will focus on
measures to: (i) increase performance of the productive sectors; (ii)
mobilize and manage resources better; and (iii) strengthen key
institutions.
30.       To increase performance of the productive sectors, more
attractive prices, better marketing operations and improved procurement and
distribution of fertilizers will provide incentive for smallholders to
raise their output, especially for export. For the estates, steps will be
taken to help them upgrade their management, have greater access to credit
and diversify their production. In the industrial sector, emphasis will be
on relaxing the present system of price controls.
31.       To improve resource mobilization and management, the Government
is committed to increasing revenues proportionate to GDP, emphasising
non-tax sources, to raising the efficiency of capital use through a solid
public investment program, and to expanding the parastatals' profits
through improved policies (including pricing) as well as better
management. The work begun under the first SAL in strengthening the
Government's expenditure control, foreign debt management, and planning and
budgeting capabilities will be continued, as will monitoring of recurrent
allocations to key developmental agencies. The Government also will take
steps to reduce the current high costs of its social services in housing,
health and education, raise user charges and eliminate or minimize
subsidies. Agricultural subsidies have been examined too, and a phased
program of eliminating them developed.



- 12 -
32.       Strengthening Key Institutions continues to be an important part
of the Government's action program. Toward this end, implementation of
detailed action plans - produced from studies for restructuring ADMARC,
MDC and Press Holdings will continue. In addition, the program calls for
improving the management capacities of other key parastatals and the
Government, particularly the Economic Planning Division of the Office of
the President and Cabinet (EPD).
33.       Economic Framework.  The revised program has been set in a
general macro-economic framework for the 1983-87 period, which projects an
annual average growth in GDP of 3.4 percent versus 4.8 percent envisaged
two years ago. As discussed above, given continuing unfavorable conditions
externally and the Government's inability to move as quickly as originallv
anticipated, the revised figure probably is a realistic target for GDP
growth. Sectorally, the framework projects agriculture growing at a yearlv
average of 3.4 percent, industry at 3.7 percent and the rest of the economy
at 3.& percent. Table 1 below sets out our estimates.
Table 1: Development of the Malawian Economy with and
without Structural Adjustment Policies
With             Without
Structural        Structural
Indicator                       Adjustment        Adjustment
Growth of GDP(Z) 1983-87           3.4                2.5
Agriculture                     3.4                2.4
Industry                        3.7                2.6
Export Growth 1983-87              5.5                4.0
Primarv                         5.5                4.0
Other                           5.0                4.0
Resource Gap 1987               $105.0 million    $120.0 million
Current Account Deficit 1987   $152.0 million    $175.0 million



- 13 -
34.       One key to attaining these growth rates is Improvement in the
export performance, particularly that of agricultural products. After
examining the potential for every major export category, a 5.5 percent
annual growth for total exports in real terms over the next five years
appears to be feasible. Overall export volumes fell by 10 percent in 1981
and another 9 percent in 1982; thus, most of the targeted increase
represents a recovery from the current low levels to those that were
attained in the past.
35.       A second key requirement is to further reduce the current account
deficit. Having risen to 24 percent of GDP in 1979, the current account
deficit was reduced to 13 percent in 1981 and 1982 largely due to a sharP
fall in imports. The IMF's EFF program calls for the deficit to decline
gradually to 5.0 percent of GDP by 1987.
36.       Malawi's foreign financing needs and expected resources are shown
in Table 1 below. Total available foreign financing for the 1983-87 period
has been based on past trends, as well as expected levels of grants, and
medium and long term loans from individual sources. Even allowing for two
SALs totalling US$115 million and possible IMF programs throughout the five
years, 3 a gap of US$110 million remains to be filled.
37.       It should be noted that Malawi had very heavy debt repayments due
in the period of 1982-1984, but has recently completed a rescheduling of
both its commercial and official debts. The first year of commercial debt
repayments will be stretched out over the next 6 1/2 years and official
repayments over the next 8 years;
Table 2: MALAWI-Foreign Financing, 1983-1987
(US$ million)
Current Account Deficit          725
Capital Account Amortization   285
Reserve Build-up                  50
Total Requirement               1060
Official Grants                  270
M&LT Loans                       505
Net IMF                           85
SALs                             115
Other Capital                     65
Total Available                  950
3 The IMF has recently agreed to a three year EFF with Malawi, but
has no commitment for any program beyond mid-1986.



- 14 -
With this rescheduling, Malawi's debt service ratio, which would have
reached over 40 percent in 1982 will be very flat over the period at about
25-30 percent per annum.  The debt rescheduling will provide about US$35
million in resources.
38.       Another key to attaining sustained growth with a manageable
balance of payments current account deficit will be substantially reducing
the Government's budgetary deficits, which reached an average of almost 16
percent of GDP during FY80-FY82. Under the EFF, the deficit is targeted to
decline gradually each year to reach 7.5 percent of GDP by FY86 by keeping
development expenditures to 8.8-9.0 percent of GDP; reducing the revenue
account expenditures from 17.6 percent of GDP in FY83 to 15.4 percent by
1985/86, and keeping revenue between 16.6 and 16.9 percent of GDP
throughout the period.
39.       To ach-eve the growth targets set out, both the saving and
investment rates will need to recover from the depressed levels of recent
years. At the same time, the efficiency of investment will need to
improve. Domestic savings will have to increase from the 1982 figure of
13.5 percent of gross domestic product to 17.8 percent by 1987, and the
decline in investments by both private and public enterprises must be
reversed.
40.       Given the program proposed by the Government and the latter's
political commitment to it, the targets above should be achievable. Malawi
already is pursuing an agriculturally based, export-oriented policy which
has been implemented well in the past. Therefore, the present program does
not aim to introduce radical changes, but has as its major goals enhancing
the efficiency of implementation and strengthening the relevant
institutions.
The Productive Sectors
41.       Agriculture.  As in the first SAL operation, monitoring the price
incentives for smallholders, will continue to be a major focus of the
adjustment program. Over the last two years, a methodology for
setting prices for smallholder crops has been developed, which sets the
price levels which will provide the incentive to expand both overall and
export crop production. With recent increases in smallholder crop prices,
the terms of trade are shifting in favor of agriculture and the returns per
labor day for all major crops in most locations are greater than the



- 15 -
opportunity cost of labor. Table 3 below sets out the returns to labor in
real terms for the period 1979/80-1983/84 and shows the reversal of the
downward trend beginning for many crops in 1981/82 and other crops in
1982/83. The Association will continue to be involved in ensuring proper
application of the agreed pricing methodology and help as needed to improve
the system further. Specifically the question Gf the comparative advantage
of various crops will be looked at and the effect of pricing policies on
the budget, the balance of payments and other macroeconomic variables will
be examined. In recent years, production of groundnuts, cotton and a
number of minor crops has fallen significantly. Incentives provided under
recently increased prices and available technical packages should restore
the production of most of these back to previous levels. Despite a bouyant
international price, the export parity price for cotton is low due to
relatively inefficient and costly cotton ginning and processing and the
high cost of external transport particularly in view of recent disruption
in the shortest and cheapest routes through Mozambique. The Government has
deemed cotton self-suffiency necessary and will set prices sufficient to
achieve this.  In the meantime, it plane to reduce processing and transport
costs through further investments in roads and ginning capacity.
Table 3: Real Gross Margins per Labor Day for Smallholder Crops
(1974 tambala)
1983/84
1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 1982183 (est.)
Maize (local)                45.4    39.0    60.9    54.0    51.2
(hybrid)               48.6    37.3    75.5    56.3    53.7
Tobacco (Northern Div.
dark-fired)          28.1    24.3    20.6a/  26.8    26.8
(25.6)
Groundnuts (chalimbane)      32.6    24.9    25.7    30.9    36.3
Cotten                       31.3    24.3    28.7    36.3    38.0
Rice (faya)                  48.6    40.1    33.7    38.6    47.5
(blue bonnet)           49.2    41.2    44.8    44.0    48.3
a/ A 15 percent second payment was made in 1981/82 resulting in total
receipts of 25.6 tambala in 1974 prices.



- 16 -
42.       The Government will continue to review the recurrent budget
allocations to the Ministry of Agriculture to be sure they are adequate, as
was done in the first SAL.
43.       ADMARC is the major source of inputs and marketing for
smallholders. It was established in 1971 to increase exports, provide
supplies to those farming on customary land (i.e. smallholders), and to
maintain a system for export marketing. While it provides an outlet for
all produce grown on customary land, its monopoly extends only to certain
types of tobacco and cotton. Besides these functions, ADMARC was also
given the task of assisting by credit or investment any "works,
undertakings, projects, schemes or enterprises relating to the development
or improvement of the economy of Malawi'. ADMARC was to be run as a
commercial enterprise and its selling price for produce sold within Malawi
was to be no less than the purchase price plus ADMARC costs or, if sold
below this price, the Government was to make good any losses from public
funds. Unfortunately, misapplication of these two provisions has led to
some of ADMARC's present difficulties.
44.       While ADMARC was conceived primarily as a marketing agency,
during the 1970s it gave much more attention to the development aspects of
its mandate. In effect, it u;ed its pricing decisions to tax the
smallholder sector and invest the revenue in the rapidly expanding estate
sector. Until 1978, ADMARC showed large profits and was able to carry out
its investment plans and still provide most of the services needed by
smallholders, including the procurement and distribution of subsidized
fertilizer. By the end of the 1970s, however, ADMARC began to lose money
on its operations due mainly to increased marketing costs (despite a slight
decrease in the volume purchased), due to excessive staffing, and buying
points, failure to adapt to more difficult and costly transport, and a
shift to excessive distribution of maize and subsidized fertilizer within
the countrv relative to more profitable export activities.
45.       Contrary to statutory requirements, ADMARC has not been
compensated by the Government for losses incurred in maize and fertilizer
distribution. In addition, export markets have been eroded or lost due to
poor crop forecasting, irregularity of supply and shipment, and for
groundnuts, poor grading standards and declining quality. By 1980 ADMARC's
trading profits had disappeared and overall operations showed a loss of
almost MK 9 million. As a result, it was unable to order sufficient
fertilizer to meet farmer demand that year. The same happened the
following year when it lost more than MK 10 million. The Finance Ministry,
forced to procure half of the fertilizer to help alleviate the financial
burden on ADMARC, was not able to do so in a timely manner, so that a



- 17 -
second consecutive year of shortage occurred. To help ADMARC overcome its
cash flow problem, reduce its deficit and encourage efficient use of
fertilizer, the Government reduced the fertilizer subsidy by 50 percent in
1983 and is committed to eliminate it wholly within three years.
46.       A study of the financial and operating efficiency of
ADMARC, financed by the first Technical Assistance Loan, recommended the
following:
(i) improve ADMARC's pricing policies through
better planning and analysis; greater use of
interseasonal stabilization funds and
review of the use of subsidies, with any
remaining producer and consumer subsidy costs
being met by Government rather than ADHARC;
(ii) reduce marketing costs by cutting back on the
number of markets;
(iii) limit ADMARC's investments and other related
interests to those which are or could be
beneficial to marketing or processing. (Thus
freeing both financial and management
resources for these primarv functions);
(iv) establish a planning unit to assess and
analyze likelv consequences of alternative
plans of action:
(v) strengthen the financial management of ADMARC;
'viz improve crop marketing and distribution bv
increasing the role of the informal sector:
and
(vii) improve training and manpower development.
The Government has already reconstituted the Board of ADMARC and created
the post of General Manager to run the company. It has drawn up a program
of specific steps to be taken and a timetable based on the consultant's
report was agreed with the Association at negotiations.



- 18 -
47.       The fertilizer supply problem is being addressed by an IFAD/IDA
jointly financed project administered by the Bank. The project will help
improve the Government's and ADMARC's ability to estimate requirements and
procure and distribute supplies to smallholders. Toward this end, a
revolving fund for fertilizer procurement has been established in the
Reserve Bank and funds provided for technical assistance and local staff
training. The program will also evaluate research data and extension
recommendations, focusing on the monitoring of farm demand and success in
the use of fertilizers. The program will assist institution building in
ADMARC to strengthen the parts of it dealing with the procurement and
distribution of inputs.
48.       In Malawi farms are classified as 'estates" or "smallholdings'
according to tenure status rather than size. All farms under freehold or
leasehold are classified as estates while those with communal tenure are
smallholdings. This can be misleading as there are large commercial
smallholder farms while most burley tobacco estates are farmed in small
units by tenants. Land tenure determines the crops that may be grown (only
estates can grow burley tobacco) and the access to markets (only
smallholders are serviced by ADMARC), credit institutions (only estates
receive commercial bank credit) and extension services (only smallholders
are served by Government extension agents).
49.       Because the vast majority of Malawi farmers are "smallholders"
Bank assistance to agriculture has focussed on this subsector. However,
the estate sector production has been growing rapidly, by 17 percent per
year over 1968-77, largely by conversion of communal land to freehold and
leasehold. The sector produced 80 percent of Malawi's agricultural exports
in 1981 and 1982, but in recent years has suffered sharp financial
reverses. Tobacco prices fell steeply in 1979 and 1980. A number of
estates were not able to meet debt payments to Malawi's two commercial
banks, and were either placed in receivership or put under the control of
the banks' management advisory services. With the recovery of tobacco
prices, the financial positions of the estates have improved, and the banks
have cut back or disbanded their management advisory services. Yet most
estates still suffer managerial and financial weaknesses. The
importance of this sector in generating export earnings requires that the
structural adjustment program include measures to improve its efficiency.
Thus the program will provide for improving their technical and financial
management and for giving greater incentives to diversify production
through strict enforcement of government tobacco regulations, establishment
of a managerial training scheme and development of a credit plan. The
Government does not have a policy on the expansion of the estate sector and
the future of communal Eorms of tenure. There are increasing land
pressures in Malawi which could become a serious problem in the future.



- 19 -
However, there is insufficient knowledge about the effects of conversion to
freehold or leasehold status on concentration of landholdings and factor
productivity to formulate a policy. The Government has begun the process
of policy formulation with a study on size distribution of farms, yields
and other productivity measures in smallholder and estate agriculture.
50.       The expansion of Malawi's tobacco exports will require improvtd
control over the quality and volume of production. Malawi tried to control
the quality and quantity of its tobacco production in the late 1960s and
early 1970s, as it was felt that there was a limited market for its
products. During the rapid expansion of the 1970s effective control was
lost, although regulations still remained on paper. During the 1983 sfason
a large increase in the production of burley tobacco has led to a sharp
drop in the price and pointed out again the limited market for Malawi's
tobacco. Under the program the Government will again enforce regulations
strictly and encourage diversification to other crops.
51.       The recently completed -Tobacco Sector Study' has compiled and
analyzed a substantial quantity of data which can provide a basis for a
long term strategy for the tobacco sector. This strategy will include the
development of an extension service for the estates, a management training
plan and medium- to long-term credit facilities.
52.       The commercial banks provide production credit for seasonal
requirements, but have been reluctant to provide medium and long-term
financing because of their limited overall resources, current heavy
concentration of their portfolio in agriculture, and poor experience on
loan recovery in the late 1970s. Because the amount of funds required is
not likely to be very large, it should not be necessary to set up a new,
separate institution to provide long-term credit to the estates. This
zould be done by either the commercial banks or an existing institution
such as the Investment Development Bank (INDEBANK), a well run development
finance company experienced in evaluating and supervising loans in many
different areas. Both INDEBANK and the commercial banks have expressed
interest in handling the needs of the estates for medium- and long-term
financing, especially as it relates to estate diversification, if the
Government will provide assistance such as a guarantee scheme or
rediscounting facilities. A timetable for developing a program was agreed
to at negotiations.



- 20 -
53.       Industry.  The Government has emphasized the role of the private
sector in industrial development providing incentives through taxes, profit
repatriation and import rebates. The small size of Malawi's market and
high transport costs afford natural protection to the industrial sector
despite relatively low tariffs. The Government can and does exert
substantial influence on the system. As the economy has become more
complex and the internal and external environment more volatile, requiring
more frequent changes, the management of the largely informal system has
become more and more strained. Even though it has functioned reasonably
well in the past, it has become increasingly clear that some of the
Government's approaches toward regulatory practices require some
overhauling. A study is being undertaken by the Association to evaluate
the system of incentives affecting the manufacturing sector in Malawi and
the recommendations of that study will be used in our dialogue with
Government.
54.       Both the formal and informal price controls are based on a cost
plus pricing system, which has led to cost inefficiences and has limited
the effectiveness of the pricing system in signalling surpluses and
shortages. Production of domestic food, edible oil and cotton crops may be
affected by inadequate retail prices.   The volume of applications to the
Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism (MTI) has increased rapidly in
recent years, both because the coverage of price controls has expanded
significantly, and because costs have risen rapidly. It can now take
several months for the MTI to respond to the price applications because
staff are limited. These delays cause a serious financial burden on those
firms experiencing large increases in their input prices, and considerable
management time is lost in following up on the applications. This weakens
the financial position of these firms, constitutes a serious disincentive
to investment, and adversely affects the overall business climate in the
country.
55.       The program will provide for gradually dismantling the system and
replacing it with one that would remove or alleviate most of the present
drawbacks. This will require the Government to identify a short list of
essential commodities subject to price fixing and review the prices of
these controlled items every year in order to avoid supply problems that
could arise if prices are repressed for a long time, and develop a
timetable for removing the controls on other products, removing the
controls on a substantial number before the release of the second tranche
of the SAL.



- 21 -
Resource Mobilization and Management
56.       Even though the targets for GDP and sectoral growth rates in the
program are modest compared with results accomplished in the 1970s, the
need for resource mobilization is still formidable. The share of both
total investment and domestic savings in GDP has dropped sharply since
1978. Reversing this decline will be difficult because of continued
deterioration in external transport which increases costs, depresses
profits and decreases the willingness to invest; the recent financial
deterioration of the parastatals which restricts their ability to save aad
invest; the low elasticity of the Government's revenue system and the
limited scope for increasing tax revenues, especially in a time of low
growth; and pessimism in the private sector engendered by the current
recessionary climate, deteriorating transport and declining regional
markets. The need for additional resources can be minimized by improving
the efficiency of investment. The careful scrutiny of investment projects
both in the central budget and those implemented by the parastrtaln is
required with priority given to more directly productive invesaC:zts.
57.       Malawi has not had a formal public investment program in the
past.  The Goverment had no. selected a complete set of projects based on
their priority and then worked out a program based on resources likely to
be available. In addition, information about the investments of the
parastatals was not centralized. Thus it was not possible to assess public
investment, both ongoing and planned, in its totality.  Under the
adjustment program progress has been made in preparation and review of a
public investment program based on agreed projections of resource
availability. Decisions on parastatal investment plans are incomplete for
later years in the period.
58.       The program will contain a continued reduction in the budget
deficit. This requires reductions in expenditure growth since there is
limited scope for additional revenue measures in the near term. With the
budget for recurrent expenditures under heavy pressure from the past
development expenditures of the Governm-nt and the need for funds to carry
out existing programs, the development budget is likely to be highly
constrained. rhis reinforces the need for developing and updating a formal
investment prograz- for this and coming years, so that the limitation of
the develop=ent budget can be done efficiently. As was the case with SAL
I, the Government is giving priority to sustaining adequate recurrent
outlays for agricultural services, road maintenance, and education. The
IMF has supported these our efforts to ensure adequate recurrent
expenditures.



- 22 -
59.       In the medium term, however, continued reduction of development
outlays could have serious adverse effc-.cs on economic growth.   The
Government must therefore address the issue of increasing revenues within
the framework of a medium-term adjustment program. During the 1970s
government revenue had been steadily increasing as a percentage of GDP and
by FY80 was above 20 percent, due mainly to changes in tax rates,
especially the surtax (a form of sales tax) which was introduced in 1970.
In FY81 and FY82 revenues fell to 19.1 percent of GDP and 17.4 percent
respectively. The Government introduced a number of revenue measures in
the 1982/83 budget, including a cax on hotels and entertainment, an
increase in the maximum rate of the income tax on both individuals and
companies, the application of the income tax to insurance companies, and a
measure limiting the ability of holding companies to offset losses against
taxable income. The 1983/84 budget simplified the system of individual
income taxation, eliminated some deductions, increased custom and excise
duties and raised vehicle fees. However, the revenue increases from these
measures are expected to be modest. Additional measures will be needed in
the coming years in order to expand the Government's revenue base and
control costs. The Government has decided to (i) improve the buoyancy of
the tax system, (ii) adjust tariffs, fees and charges, and (iii) reduce
subsidies and increase cost recovery efforts. The goal is to keep revenue
growth proportionate to GDP growth. A detailed package of tax and non-tax
revenue measures is being developed under the IMF's EFF. The Bank will
continue to work closely with the DMF on this issue to ensure that proper
investment and allocation incentives are provided.
60.       The social services that the Government provides have become a
serious burden on the budget. Failure to recover costs adequately limits
the Government's ability to expand social services throughout the
population. The Government has also been slow to increase fees for
Government services. As a result, the share of non-tax revenues in total
revenue has declined significantly over the years. In view of the limited
prospects for tax revenue increases, a major effort has to be made to
expand non-tax revenues. The program provides for a review of existing
duties, license fees and tariffs with a view to making appropriate changes
in them, including more frequent changes in departmental charges and in
licenses and fees and increases in ground rent on leasehold land, which is
still very low, despite some recent changes.



- 23 -
61.     Fertilizer prices have averaged only half of t!e real costs and the
maize account has usually operated at a loss. Conversely up until the late
1970's, ADMARC operated with an overall profit, while paying smallholders
less than half the world market price on some export crops. As described
above, the adjustment program will continue to adjust export crop prices to
appropriate levels to provide proper incentives, especially for
smallholders   At the same time the Goverrnent will continue to remove the
subsidies on fertilizer and maize to prevent these from draining ADMARC's
or the Government's budget.
62.       Cost recovery for government-supplied services also must be
improved. The Government raised tuition fees for primary and secondary
schools in 1982, for the first time since 1975. In tertiary education,
unit costs are high compared to other African countries but no fees are
charged, and students receive personal allowances. Even though the
university has only 1,700 students, it absorbs 25 percent of all
educational expenditures. The Government has agreed to reduce these high
costs and increase the contributions from students.
63.       In the area of health services, the program will include a review
of the various charges for health services and immediate measures to
improve collection.  While in principle, the Water Department aims at
covering costs, it is not successful in achieving its targets in all types
of services provided. There were some rate increases effected in 1982, but
under the program the Government will annually go over the system and make
changes necessary to improve revenues. The same is true for the price
charged by the Department of Forest Industries for the sale of their
products.
64.     Government-supplied housing to civil servants, parastatals and the
private sector in Malawi not only is a drain on the budget (at least NK 3
million yearly) in terms of subsidies and the balance of payments, due to
high unit costs and import content, but inhibits development of the private
housing sector as well. Based on discussions connected with SAL I, a
recent Bank housing sector mission outlined possible approaches to solving
the problem. The Government proposes now to examine the matter more
thoroughly in order to consider fully the financial, institutional and
political implications of the various options open to it. The Government
is committed to reducing its housing subsidies and to encouraging
development of the private housing sector. In the course of ongoing policy
discussions and preparation of a proposed urban project, we will work with
the Government to develop an appropriate program for dealing with the
problem.



- 24 -
65.       For the parastatals to resume their role as major contributors to
resource mobilization and investment in the Malawian economy, they have to
improve their financial performance significantly. Under the first SAL
program, the Government has taken a number of steps in this direction,
including moderate tariff increases (Air Malawi, *nalavi Railways, ESCOM,
and Blantyre Water Board), initiation of a number of financial and
management studies (Malawi Railways. ADMARC, and MDC) and establishment of
the Department of Statutary Bodies (DSB) in 1980 to oversee and coordinate
the parastatal sector. A number of management changes have been made and
the structure of management has been reorganized in certain parastatals.
The DSB has developed a financial reporting system that will enable the
Government to monitor the financial performance of the parastatals.
Surveys have been initiated by the DSB to review the functions and
viability of individual parastatals. The SAL II operation will provide for
the Government to use the studies already launched, to improve the
management and financial performance of parastatals. More specifically,
the Government nas agreed to:
(i) Increases in tariffs and user charges where
needed;
(ii) Filling of high level management vacancies as
soon as possible;
(iii) A periodic review of parastatal financial
accounts by DSB; and
(iv) Implementation of the findings of ongoing
studies for operational and financial
improvements.
66.       There has been a noticeable decline in the rate of growth of
credit to the private sector in recent years.  The annual average increase
for the last two years was only eight percent, nominally. However, as a
result of the projected decline in the budgetary gap, the Government's
recourse to domestic credit should substantially decline.  This, in turn,
would release credit resources for the use of the private sector.  This
should provide some incentive for the expansion of private sector
activities, including investments. Thus, it is essential that the
budgetary deficit be kept within the ceiling  agreed with the IMF so that
availability of credit will not be a constraint on resource mobilization in
the private sector.



- 25 -
67.       Malawi devalued the kwacha by 15 percent vis-a-vis the SDR on
April 24, 1982, in preparation for the stand-by agreement it signed with
the IMF, in August 1982. The adjustment of the exchange rate was
undertaken to enable ADMARC to pay higher producer prices, without
adverselv affecting its financial position and to improve incentives for
production of other agricultural products not handled bv ADMARC such as
tobacco and tea. The change in the exchange rate is not expected to have
much impact on manufactured exports which are limited more by the extreme
difficulties experienced in external transport and the trade and payment
policies of potential buyers among the neighboring countries. Since that
devaluation the rate appreciated by about 12 percent compared to its major
trading partners. The Government as part of its EFF agreement approved by
the DMF board in September 1983 devalued by 12 percent and agreed to keep
such an appreciation from happening again by a more active exchange rate
management policv.
68.       Deposit rates were increased by two percentage Doints in May,
1983. Currentlv, the lending rates range between 13.5 percent and 16.5
percent with most of the lending taking place closer to the upper end of
the range. When measured against the consumer price index, the maximum
lending rate is positive bv approximatelv 7 percentage points, and the real
saving deposit rate is positive by about 1 point. The Government is
committed to make neriodic adjustments as the need arises, to keep rates
positive.
69.       In SAL I the Government agreed to strengthen its ability to
monitor and control external debt and to set a target debt service ratio.
A target of 20 percent of exports of goods and services has been agreed to
and a debt monitoring unit established in the Ministry of Finance. A
consultant has recently been hired to help set up a computerized recording
and monitoring system. This system will help not onlv in recording debt
already contracted but alco help in the formulation of future borrowing
policy that will reduce the ratio to the targeted range. A borrowing
strategy and plan will be developed.
Institutional Improvements
70.       The economic difficulties of recent years have accentuated the
weaknesses in public sector institutions in Malawi. In addition, the
largest private sector company in the country, Press (Holdings), faces
great financial problems which unless resolved could adversely affect the
whole credit system of the country. In the first SAL a program to
strengthen key planning and budgeting ministries was developed along with
studies of Press and key public sector companies. In this second operation
the Government will implement the recommendations of these studies and
continue strengthening its agencies and institutions.



- 26 -
71.       Press (Holdings).  Because of the crucial role Press plays in the
Malawian economy and the extremely weak financial position of the company,
the first SAL provided for initial steps to be taken toward correcting its
problems. Consultants reports were prepared on the operations of
subsidiaries with some work done on the central management.   Assurances
were obtained that dividends would not be paid as long as the financial
health of the company remained precarious and future ownership would go to
a trust set up by the owner, the Life President of Malawi.
72.       Press is insolvent and its debts to the commercial banks and
ADI1ARC are such that these institutions would also be threatened with
bankruptcy if Press were to go under. In the past, some operatiors were
undertaken for political reasons even when they were commercially
uneconomic. While the consultants concluded that the value of investments
in non-Press enterprises was overstated in Press' books, most of the
comoanies are profitable. (Press has 22 companies in its investment
portfolio.) By contrast, the major subsidiaries of the company have at best
a mixed record of performance, are being hurt badly by the liquidity
problems of the group, and, in some cases, are experiencing serious crises
as a result. (Press has 15 major subsidiaries and 8 inactive companies.
These are companies where Press has a majority share and manages the
company.)
73.       To return Press to profitable operations, the Government has
decided on a major restructuring of the company. A new agricultural
subsidiary (PAL) will be created and will become the major focus of the
company. Minority holdings will be placed in an investment trust (PITH)
and eventually sold off either locally or internationally. Some of the
remaining subsidiaries will be sold off or closed down. The Government
will take over the claims against Press of the commercial banks and the
external creditors. Special locally registered stock will be issued to the
com-erciial banks by the Government to pay Press' debt. Press will issue
income notes to ADMARC and to the Government.
74.       The objective of the restructuring is to ensure the proper
management and financial viability of the companies retained in the Press
group. Toward this end, Press Holdings' non-commercial functions would be
clearly separated from its commercial ones. This will be accomplished by
creation of a new holding company, Press Group, Ltd. (PGL), which will
initially hold all of Press Holdings' assets and liabilities. Limitations
have been set on PGL's paying dividends, but provision has been worked out
to ensure that Press Trust, the owner of Press Holdings, receives a
reasonable flow of income. The restructuring has been done in such a way
as to limit the impact on the Government budget and close consultations
have been held with the IMF throughout the process. Still, given the



- 27 -
financial condition of the commercial banking system and the slow movement
on the sale of assets, the additional burden on the Government's budget
will be substantial. To ensure that the companies are operated on a
commercial basis a set of corporate guidelines has been drawLi up and
discussed with the Association. These set out pricing policy, investment
criteria, overdraft guidelines, rules for intercompany loans, etc.
Finally, in order to reduce the debt burden of the company, detailed
studies on possible asset sales will be carried out.
75.       Development Management.  With the implementation of the SAL II
program, the Government is taking specific measures to improve and
strengthen the management capacity in the public sector. Since the late
1970's the Government's management capacity has been severely strained by
the increasing demand of day-to-day operations, and manpower shortages at
all levels. Indeed, a number of the problems confronting Malawi can be
traced directly or indirectly to shortcomings in the Government's
institutions and bureaucratic systems. Some of these deficiencies manifest
themselves in terms of weaknesses in the areas of policy formulation,
coordination among various Ministries, public sector investment
programming, reconciliation of annual budgets with longer term development
objectives, and the appraisal and monitoring of public expenditure
programs. Even though under SAL I the Government established an Investment
Coordination Committee to oversee major investments, reinforced the
planning units in some Ministries, improved its debt management
capabilities, and strengthened the planning and financial management of
some parastatals, much remains to be done.
76.       The measures Government will take include (i) strengthening the
staffing of EPD with an emphasis on development of medium term policies,
project identification, evaluation and monitoring as well as coordination
capabilities, 4 {ii) institutionalizing the process of forward budgeting,
estimating revenues and providing improved guidelines to spending
Ministries for budget preparation and (iii) improving the institutional
frai.ework for energy policy and management (paras. 91 and 93).
77.       EPD occupies a central position in the process of development
management ia Malawi, but it has been constrained by manpower shortages and
the absence of institutional guidelines/framework. The adjustment program
provides for necessary measures to be taken to strengthen EPD, including
the identification of staffing gaps and filling them, as well as
delineating its functions. The UNDP advisors in economic planning, human
resource development and project evaluation, and the IDA financed transport
economist will assist in this process. Work is expected to be completed by
April 1984.
4 The Government has decided that EPD is a more appropriate
institution to screen investments and has not used the ICC recently.



- 28 -
78.       Malawi does not have an adequate system of forward budgeting.
Even though an effort is made to predict changes in the macro-economic
variables in the coming five-year period in the -Economic Report' prepared
annually, this does not provide the Government with a framework for
expenditure and revenue estimates beyond the current fiscal year. In order
to overcome the existing deficiencies in the system, the structural
adjustment program will include the adoption of the practice of forward
budgeting for development and recurrent expenditures covering a three-year
period. By the time for release of the second tranche the Government will
have prepared revenue and expenditure estimates for the next three fisca-l
years.
79.       Coordination of energy policy and management is a particularly
important problem in Malawi. The Government needs to develop policies to
decrease its consumption of fuelwood and to reduce its dependence on
imported petroleum. The former will need steps to induce the tobacco
industry to improve flue and barn design. The latter will require
improving existing transport arrangements, better monitoring of stocks,
development of a plan for fuel emergencies and strengthening the
institutional framework for coordinating, formulating and implementing
energy policy. During the last 12 months, progress has been made in
addressing some of these problems. The Energy Unit has been established
and staffed with a part-time professional and an agenda of high priority
studies drawn up. The proposed project will provide funding for helping
fully staff the Energy Unit, for-a power tariff study and for carrying out
a pilot project on fuelwood savings in the tobacco sector (paras.. 90, 93,
94 and 98). A timetable has been established for completion of needed
studies and a medium-term investment program.
80.       In the past public enterprises have as a group been financially
viable and have made a significant contribution to domestic savings and
investment. However during the last few years, their financial position
has deteriorated sharply and their savings and investment levels have
fallen. From 1976-1978 the major enterprises had an aggregate net profit
of MK 66f. million, while from 1979-1981 they had a net loss of MK 16.0
million.  There are a number of reasons for this.  The external economic
environment has deteriorated and they were affected. Their management has
been uneven and financial forecasting has been especially weak. Sometimes
decisions have been based on political factors rather than economic or
commercial ones. The most noticeable deterioration in the parastatals has
been that of ADMARC, which has been discussed above.  The major source of
financial difficulties has been the operation of CCDC, which borrowed short
term money, often at high, floating rates, and used it to make investments
in housing and other buildings that have only a long-term payoff and that
are often rented at uneconomically low rates.



- 29 -
81.       Under the first SAL and under separate projects, individual
problems of the parastatals are being addressed. Rates of return, and
therefore tariff levels for the Blantyre Water Board and ESCOM, are
mandated in project agreements.  A study of MDC is being paid for under the
first Technical Assistance Credit, as was the study of ADMARC referred to
above. Problems of MHC and CCDC are to be addressed under a proposed
urban project. Some of ADMARC's staffing and fertilizer procurement
difficulties will be addressed through the fertilizer project described
above and other aspects such as investment rationalization will be key
issues in SAL II. A study of Malawi Railways has recently been completed.
These studies will be reviewed as they are completed and recommendations
will be included in the adjustment program as appropriate.
82.       There is also the need to evaluate the system as a whole with a
view to making changes in the structure. DSB which was established in 1980
to assist parastatals in financial management, planning and staffing, has
served well as a central unit for monitoring the financial activities of
the parastatals. DSB has also played an active role in recruiting
managers, financial controllers and filling other vacancies in the
parastatals. However, there are indications that DSB is attempting to
perform too wide a role in overseeing public enterprise developments. All
parastatals still have a parent ministry and they are also overseen by EPD
and the Ministry of Finance. DSB should be the body responsible for
monitoring financialperformance, facilitating coordination and improving
management, but leave investment plans, policy decisions and requests for
tariff increases to other agencies. The Government has clarified DSB's
role to ensure it does not duplicate the work of other governmental units.
Transportation
83.       As a landlocked country Malawi has always had to depend on
external transport routes to reach the sea. Traditionally most imports and
exports have moved by rail on two different lines through Mozambique.
However in recent years there have been difficulties on these lines and
Malawi has had to use other, longer routes using both rail and road
transport and in time of emergency turning to costly air freighting of
essential commodities. Because it appears that the capacity of the
Mozambique routes could be constrained for a number of years, Malawi has
set up a secretariat in the Ministry of Communications and Transport to
improve the coordination of procurement of imports and their routing into
the country, to plan and implement strategies to alleviate the current
restrictive situation on present routes and to develop alternative routes
and services and to coordinate between the Government and the private
sector on these matters. Initial funding for the transport secretariat was



- 30 -
only for a period of six months, ending August 31, 1983. Arrangements
(will be) made (before Board presentation) for another eighteen months of
funding so that this important work on transport can be continued. The
most cost effective alternative route at present appears to be through the
port of Dar-es-Salaam and then by road and rail through the TANZAM corridor
to northern Malawi. Terms of reference for a study on the necessary
investments and arrangements needed for this route have been drawn up and
agreed to by the Association and agreement has been reached with the
Tanzanians on appointing consultants to develop a plan for using this route
and to carry out detailed engineering work.
PART III - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI 5
84.       Over the past 17 years, Malawi has received 28 IDA credits
totalling around US$325 million and seven Bank loans totalling US$75
million of which two were on third window terms. Of the Bank Group
assistance, some US$121 million (30 percent) was for agriculture, US$107
million (27 percent) for education, US$65 million (16.3 percent) for roads,
US$45 million (11.2 percent) for structural adjustment, US$38 million (9.8
percent) for power development, US$7 million (1.7 percent) for a health
project, US$3 million (0.8 percent) for a developing finance company
(INDEBANK), and the balance of US$13 million (3.2 percent) for water supply
technical assistance and to finance feasibility studies for the proposed
wood industries project.  The first Bank loan to Malawi was made on third
window terms in June 1976 and the first standard Bank loan in April 1977.
The most recent operations were a US$26.9 million equivalent credit and a
US$18 million loan for the Fifth Highway project.
85.       IFC's investment in Malawi consists of a loan of US$10.8 million
for a textile mill, another of US$9.9 million for a sugar mill, a US$0.6
million equity investment in INDEBANK and a US$2.0 million loan to Malawi
Motels Limited for tourism. A US$262,000 equity and a loan of US$1.7
million for the production of ethanol from molasses were approved in July
1980. Project implementation has been generally satisfactory. However,
due to depressed world sugar prices and difficulty of transporting sugar to
world markets, the Dwangwa Sugar Corporation is experiencing financial
difficulties and IFC and other project lenders have agreed to a
rescheduling of the finances of the company.  Malawi Hotels Limited is in
critical financial condition due to reduced business traffic, weak
management and low tariffs. IFC is assisting the Board of Malawi Hotels to
5   This text is substantially the same as in Part IV of the President's
Report on the Structural Adjustment Credit (Report No. 3663-MAI).



- 31 -
obtain higher tariffs from Government and to attract new management to the
company. A Summary Statement of Bank Group Operations is provided in Annex
II.
86.       During the next five years, Bank Group assistance to Malawi will
continue to be closely tailored to help Malawi restructure its economy, to
help improve agricultural productivity and the efficiency and effectiveness
of public and private enterprises, and to assist Malawi in dealing with its
external transport constraints. Further investments in transport,
agriculture, education, health and housing are contemplated as well as a
wood processing project and a second line of credit to INDEBANK. The Bank
Group's economic and sector work will focus on five high priority areas
which will over the medium term, help Malawi improve its economic
performance: (a) external transport; (b) agricultural productivity;
(c) public sector management; (d) industrial productivity; and (e)
development of Malawi's human resource potential by addressing the problems
of population growth and the cost effectiveness of the social sectors.
Disbursements
87.       Disbursements of Bank Group loans and credits in Malawi generally
have kept close to schedule and compare favorably with other countries in
the region and even on a Bank-wide basis. During the period FY80-82, the
disbursement rate on loans and credits to Malawi (excluding the effect of
non-project lending) averaged about 26 percent per annum, significantly
higher than the Eastern Africa Regional average of 17.8 percent and the
Bankwide average of about 21 percent. In FY83, the disbursement rate for
Malawi was about 29 percent, again significantly higher than the Eastern
Africa Regional average of 20.7 percent and the Bankwide average of 21
percent. Only one project--the US$7.0 million Blantyre Water Supply
Project-is appreciably behind schedule due to the late delivery and
installation of electrical and mechanical equipment for the pumping
stations. However, deliveries have been expedited and the improvement in
disbursements over the past several months should continue. As of
September 30, 1983, disbursements on this project totalled US$5.9 million.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
88.       The proposed project was prepared by the Kalawi Government with
the assistance of the Association. The need for technical assistance was
first discussed in June 1982, and the components of the project identified



- 32 -
during the appraisal of the second structural adjustment credit. The
proposed project was appraised in July and August 1983. Negotiations were
held in Washington from November 14, to 18, 1983. The Malawi delegation
was led by Mr. C.L. Mphande, Principal Secretary in the Ministry of
Finance. Annex III provides supplementary project data.
Project Objectives
89.       In combination with the accompanying structural adjustment
credit, which is being submitted concurrently, the proposed technical
assistance project will support the Government's economic program outlined
in Part II. The main objectives of the proposed project are to assist the
Government in: (a) achieving its goals of improved energy planning and
coordination; (b) achieving substantial fuelwood savings; (c) improving
pricing of electric power and industrial commodities; (d) strengthening the
debt management and the financial managemet capacities of the Ministry of
Finance and ADMARC; and (e) carrying out other parts of its structural
adjustment program.
Project Description
90.       The proposed three year project, would assist the Government's
structural adjustment program by financing: (a) an energy
economist/planner, in-service and overseas training and office supplies for
the newly established Energy Unit in EPD; (b) vehicles, operating expenses
and engineering and consulting services for a pilot fuelwood savings
program for the Tobacco Research Authority (TRA); (c) consultant services
for a power tariff study; (d) consultant services to examine decontrol of
prices of industrial commodities; (e) a financial controller and financial
analyst to be seconded to ADMARC; (f) consultant support, equipment and
in-service training for the Debt Management Unit of the Ministry of
Finance; and (g) consultant services for other to-be-identified studies
required during the implementation of Malawi's structural adjustment
program.
Project Preparation and Start-up Activities
91.       The August 1982 Joint Bank/Government Sector Review of Malawi's
-Issues and Options in the Energy Sector" revealed that despite the past
reasonable public policy in energy supply and management, short-run
prospects for significantly reducing dependence on imported petroleum and
domestic fuelwood resources are limited. It highlighted two major energy
problems. First, fuelwood consumption (90 percent of the primary energy
supply) exceeds the sustainable yield of this resource. While the full
impact has not yet been felt, continued excessive consumption threatens to
deplete Malawi's extensive forest cover. Second, the cost of petroleum



- 33 -
imports, still a small but a vital component of total energy supplies,
has been rising due to both increased demand and transport difficulties
from the coast of Mozambique. Despite Malawi's recognized dependence on
often unstable import supply routes, a number of measures to mitigate the
worst effects of the problem were identified in the Energy Sector Review.
92.       Major government actions to address sector issues over the past
year include: (a) development of a pilot fuelwood savings program for the
estate subsector, based on a detailed study of alternatives; (b)
reorientation of the Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources'
reforestation and fuelwood conservation programs to accord more closely
with the needs and perceptions of the rural population; (c) steamlining of
the petroleum supply system within the country and development of
alternative supply routes coupled with efforta to maintain an adequate
reserve stock; (d) commissioning of a consultant study by ESCOM to identify
and rank all hydro sites, including mini-hydro; and (e) outlining the basis
for strengthening the institutional framework for coordinating and
formulating energy policy.   Recognizing the need to define the roles of
and coordinate the numierous government departments and statutory bodies
currcntly active in the sector, the Government already has established and
staffed with one part-time person, an Energy Unit in EPD to formulate
overall energy policy and coordinate subsectoral energy agencies. The
energy component of the proposed project provides further essential support
for effective performance of its newly assigned duties and development of a
medium-term energy strategy and investment plan for both traditional and
conventional energy sources, as outlined below.
Detailed Features
Energy Planning and Coordination
93.       To strengthen EPD's Energy Unit, the Government has decided to
employ a team of five professionals: a principal economist or engineer to
head the Unit; two senior economists, one to be in charge of the energy
resources development section and the other the energy conservation and
demand management section; and two junior economists, one to be assigned to
each section. The head of the Unit will represent EPD on the Boards of
ESCOM and the Oil Company of Malawi (OILCOM) as well as serve as a liaison
with Government ministries (Forestry and Natural Resources, Agriculture,
etc.) and DSR and the relevant statutory bodies (ESCOM, etc.). The
Government is recruit,ng the two senior economists and the two junior
economists and expects them to be in place by April 1, 1984. The head of
the Energy Unit is currently being trained overseas and will not be
available prior to June 30, 1984. To assist the Unit head and his staff i.
tackling the high priority medium-term energy policy issues, the Government



- 34 -
medium-term energy policy issues, the Government has requested IDA
financing of an experienced energy economist/planner for around 18 months.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government would by
June 30, 1984, employ a head of the Energy Unit as well as an energy
economist/planner whose qualifications, experience and conditions of
employment are satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02 (i) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Agreement was also reached that bv
June 30, 1985, the Government would have completed a medium-term investment
plan and by September 30, 1985 have exchanged views on a work program to
implement it (Section 3.04 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The project also includes 12 man-months of fellowship support for
short-term overseas training of EPD staff to enhance professional skills;
funds for office supplies and administrative expenses; and support for the
conduct of essential special studies many of which were identified in the
Energy Sector Review (improved EPD data collection and analysis,
feasibility study of production of ethanol from cassava, energy audits in
industrial plants, etc.) to be financed out of the other studies component
(para. 103). The detailed in-service training needs will be diagnosed once
the head of the Unit and his team have been appointed.
Pilot Fuelwood Savings
94.       Tobacco curing accounts for an estimated 40 percent of Ma'lawi's
fuelwood consumption. Of this, some 400 growers of flue-cured tobacco
use 75 percent of the wood, and 42,600 growers of fire-cured use the
remaining 25 percent. While energy savings are possible in both, the
greatest immediate potential obviously lies ic flue-cured tobacco.
Malawi's TRA estimates that the flue-curing tobacco estates consume between
0.02 m3 and 0.13 m3 of wood per kg of tobacco in their barns. Even the
most efficient barns, however, use about three to four times more wood
energy than the best ones in the United States. The recent study
evaluating the various technical options concludes that substantial savings
in wood consumption could be achieved by: (a) rebuilding furnaces, adding
grates and doors; and (b) installing controllable top and bottom
ventilators in tobacco curing barns--both relatively low cost investments.
TRA estimates that savings in fuelwood of 25 and 15 percent, respectively,
from the two investments are feasible. 6  In money ten.;,  these translate
into annual savings per barn of MK 180 and MK 108, respectively, against
capital investments of MK 250 and MK 160. Although prc'iminary analysis
indicates both measures are highly cost-effective, the study recommends a
two-year pilot program to verify the results under field conditions before
undertaking any large-scale application.
6   Based on fuelwood consumption projections in the Energy Sector Review,
these savings could be realized by 1990 if the pilot test is
successful and full-scale implementation is begun in 1986.



- 35 -
95.       The proposed project includes funds for such a pilot program in
which 40 low efficiency barns on estates in five main growing regions would
be upgraded and the results compared with eight unimproved barns . The
program, to be carried out over two curing seasons, would comprise: (a)
equipment tests-installing, demonstrating and testing improved furnace
equipment and top ventilators (costing about US$450 per barn) in each of
the participating barns; (b) extension-TRA's employing a two year
extension engineer (probably expatriate) supported by a local professional,
to develop extension materials, strategies and training programs and to lay
the ground work for an extension service; (c) research-employing a young
professional (probably an expatriate) to support an FAO-financed research
officer currently in TRA; and procuring vehicles and equipment needed for
further research on wood-saving technology (e.g. height and shape of flues
and chimneys); and (e) evaluation-carrying out an inventory of the
country's tobacco barns, their equipment and consumption, sources of supply
and cost of wood used and preparing a follow-up project.
96.       The Energy Unit of the Forestry Division, which would conduct the
inventory, also would explore possible savings in wood consumed in
fire-curing tobacco. These evaluation costs (around US$30,000) are being
financed from the on-going NRDP II (wood energy) project.
97.       Agreement was reached that the pilot program scheduled to begin
in April 1984, would be completed and evaluated by April 30, 1986 and that
the Government would by, June 30, 1986, exchange views with the Association
on proposals for full scale implementation, including any policy changes
(e.g. legislation) required (Sections 3.04 (a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Electric Power Pricing
98.       ESCOM operates an interconnected system based on hydroelectric
power for the maior load centers, and a number of diesel stations to supply
three isolated load centers. At present there are separate tariffs for
different classes of consumers on the interconnected system. Tariffs for
isolated load centers are the sa   as for the interconnected system except
for the addition of a fuel surcharge for large consumers. The proposed
project would assist the Government in developing a tariff structure which
reflects as closely as possible the long run marginal costs to the economy
of meeting the demand for electricity in Malawi. The study would evaluate
the effects of introducing time of day rates, the effects on low income
users of the monthly fixed charge; and demand management measures to reduce
the peakness of demand. The power costs are to be set in accordance with
the least cost power development program to meet forecast demand. The
study would also propose a tariff level in line with economic costs, which



- 36 -
would be subject to any constraints imposed by the revenue requirements of
the ESCOM to meet its financial objectives and by any income distribution
objectives (e.g. subsidizing low income consumers) which the electricity
tariff may be required to serve. It would be carried out in three phases:
the first would be the preparation of a detailed load forecast for Malawi
covering the next 10 years; the second would be the analysis of the
marginal costs of generating, transmitting and distributing electricity at
different places, times and voltage levels to different consumers over the
study period; the third would be the preparation of a proposed tariff
structure and tariff levels. The new tariff schedules would include an
appropriate mechanism for implementing adjustments to the rates to
compensate for general price inflation and for increases in import prices
for fuel for thermal generating plants. A plan for implementing the
transition from the old to the new tariff structure would be proposed. The
stu.y would be carried out by a financial analyst/economist and an engineer
supplemented by short-term expertise. Altogether around 12 months of
consultant services would be re.quired over a 9 month period. During
negotiations agreement was reacned that the Government would by June 30,
1984 employ consultants to carry out the study. The qualifications,
experience and conditions of employi;ent would have to be satisfactory to
the Association (Section 3.02 (ii) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Agreement would also be reached that Government would complete
the study by June 30, 1985 and would exchange views with the Association on
the fiadings and recommendations not later than September 30, 1985 (Section
3.04 (b) of the draft Development. Credit Agreement). The consultants would
report to the General Manager of ESCOM who plans to assign, on a full-time
bas:s, a data analyst and economist who would be involved in implementation
and follow-up.
Phasing Out Industrial Price Controls
99.       The Government is committed to a policy of price liberalization
and has already agreed with the IMF, as a first step in the process, to
streamline the existing system of administration. In September 1983, it
introduced a time limit of 60 days within which the authorities must
respond to proposed price increases. After this new system has been in
operation for several months, the time limit for most goods will be reduced
to 30 days. In addition, the Government plans *fmmediately to decontrol
certain items prior to the end of 1983. However, it is concerned that
decontrol of prices might be exploited by domestic monopolies. It
therefore asked the Association to finance a four month consultant study of
the commodities subject to price control examining the nature of the
domestic markets, access of external competitors, the amount of competition
and the share of the commodity in the budget of low-income groups. This



- 37 -
study would be the basis for developing a comprehensive time-phased program
for decontrolling a substantial number of manufactured product prices.
Agreement was reached that the Government would by February 1, 1984, select
a consultant whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment are satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Strengthening the Financial Management of ADMARC
100.      The Government has asked the Association to finance a financ-al
analyst and a financial controller to strengthen ADMARC's management and
investment programming. The financial analyst would report to the head of
ADMARC's Development Department, helping specifically to evaluate ADMARC's
existing and proposed investments in agro-industry and its major
subsidiaries. Agreement on terms of reference and an undertaking that by
June 30, 1984, Government would have employed a financial analyst with
qualifications. experience and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Association were agreed upon during negotiations (Section 3.02 {iii) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
101.      The financial controller would head the Finance and Accounting
Department f ADMARC. He would be responsible for the Department's overall
administration and for instituting and supervising whatever controls,
systems and accounting procedures are required to ensure ADHARC's smooth
and efficient working. The Government appointed an internationally
recruited Financial Controller under NRDP I in September 1983.  However,
financing under NRDP I will terminate on March 31, 1985 and Government
plans to extend his contract another 18 months effective to September 30,
1986. The proposed project would fund this extension. A Malawian
counterpart has been recruited to assist the Financial Controller.
Strengthening the Debt Management Capabilities of the Ministry of Finance
102.      With help from the Association's External Debt Division, the
Government has catalogued most of its outstanding debt and established a
Debt Division in the Ministry of Finance to monitor and collect data on
external debt. Under technical assistance I a short-term consultant was
employed to finish computerizing the recording and monitoring system. The
project includes funds to computerize the system (purchase of
micro-computer and associated equipment) and six to eight months of
consultant services to strengthen further the debt management system
including helping formulate an appropriate debt management policv.



- 38 -
Expert Services
103.      The proposed project would also provide funds for medium and
short-term consultant services to be used by the Government for other
studies (including energy pricing, industrial tariffs, agro-industrial
implementation, etc.) to be identified during implementation of the second
structural adjustment program. The consultants would be recruited bv the
Ministry of Finance and would be assigned, as necessary, to the various
ministries and public and private enterprises involved in implementing the
economic recovery program. The consultants would be selected under terms
of reference and terms and conditions of employment satisfactorv to the
Association (Section 3.02 of tne draft Development Credit Agreement) which
would provide that national staff jointly participate in the studies and
that there is a training component.
Project Implementation
104.      The Technical Assistance project would be carried out bv the
Ministry of Finance on behalf of the Republic of Malawi through EPD, ESCOM,
ADMARC, TRA, and the Ministrv of Trade and Industry. EPD would be
responsible for developing the medium-term energy investment plan: ESCOM
for carrying out the power tariff study; the TRA for executing the pilot
fuelwood savings program; ADMARC for improving its financial management
practices; the Mlinistry of Finance for strengthening its debt managment
capacity; and the Ministry of Trade and Industry for overseeing the price
decontrol study.
Project Cost Estimates and Disbursements
105.      Total project costs inclusive of taxes and duties, which are
negligible, are estimated at US$1,700,000 of which US$1,501,000 or 88
percent, would be foreign exchange and US$199,000 local costs. These costs
were estimated at September 1983 prices and include an allowance of 10
percent for physical contingencies (vehicles and equipment) and price
contingencies on foreign components of 8 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent in
1984, 7 percent for 1985 and 6 percent thereafter. The price contingencies
on local components were: 12 percent for 1983, 11 percent for 1984, and 10
percent for 1985, and 9 percent for 1986 and 1987. The amount of
consulting and expert services is estimated at around 128 man-months,
ranging from US$6,500 to US$12,000 per month (averaging around US$8,600 per
man-month) including salaries, international travel and subsistence. This
subsistence is the only local currency component and totals about
$115,000. These costs are based on recent consultant contracts for similar
work in Eastern Africa. The executing agencies (Ministrv of Finance,
ADMARC, TRA, EPD, Ministry of Trade and Industry, ESCOM) would meet the
costs of counterpart staff, office facilities, etc. All consultant
contracts regardless of size would be fully documented. Disbursement is
expected to be completed in 36 months.



- 39 -
106.      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 1.4 million (USS1.5 million) would
finance around 88 percent of total project costs net of taxes and duties,
including all of the foreign exchange costs. The Government's contribution
to the project would be mainly in kind and personnel: the provision of
office space, support staff, counterparts, and office supplies which
together have been costed at US$199,000 equivalent.
Procurement and Disbursement
107.      All technical assistants and consultants would be recruited on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. Vehicles and equipment
(costing US$130,000) purchased under the project for the use of the
advisers or the staff of the TRA and Debt Management Unit would be procured
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with
local procedures acceptable to the Association. Disbursements would be on
the basis of 100 percent of expenditures for consultants' services and
training; and 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local
expenditures for equipment and vehicles. The Government has agreed that,
except for salaries of local persons, no taxes and duties would be levied
on consultant contracts.  All IDA disbursements would be fully documented.
A schedule of estimated disbursements is provided in the Credit and Project
Summary.
Account and Audit
108.      The Ministry of Finance would establish and monitor consolidated
project accounts for all expenditures financed under the Credit in a
clearly identifiable manner. Separate accounts would be maintained by EPD,
ESCOM, TRA, ADMARC, and the Ministry of Trade and Industry. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that the statement of accounts would be
audited by the Auditor General or other independent auditors acceptable to
the Association, not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year
(Section 4.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Agreement
was also reached that the Government would monitor progress of the project
and not later than six months after the Closing Date, or such other agreed
date, would prepare and submit to the Association a full report on the
execution of the project (Section 3.06 (d) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
109.      The proposed project would provide support for the accompanying
Structu-al Adjustment operation. It would do so first by strengthening
planning and coordination of energy policy thereby enabling the Government
to formulate a long-term strategy and medium-term energy investment plan to
address its two major energy problems; second by developing a tariff
structure (and related power development plan) which reflects the long-run



- 40 -
marginal costs to the economy of meeting the demand for electricity in
Malawi; third by developing policies and programs to reduce significantly
wood consumption and fuel consumption of transporting wood over large
distances; fourth by strengthening the financial management and project
appraisal capabilities of ADMARC which is expected to make a key
contribution to investment in agro-based industries; fifth by liberalizing
the system of price controls; and sixth by enabling the Ministry of Finance
to monitor and control external debt and to make use of additional
consultant services to oversee and examine specific aspects of the
structural adjustment process.
1.        The most important risk is one inherent in all technical
assistance projects of this kind, namely, that expatriate staff may not
become fullv integrated into the local system, and that their relations
with Malawi personnel may not be as effective as required to achieve fully
the ob4ectives of the project. One other major risk is that delays in
project implementation may occur, due to the late recruitment of expatriate
staff or consultants, or to the lack of government counterpart
contributions and personnel. In order to minimize these risks, the
Association has agreed on the terms of reference of all major studies and
helped the Government to identify in advance suitable candidates for
carrying out the price decontrol and debt management studies. The
financial controller of ADMARC is already in place. Finally, the
counterparts required for all project components have been involved in
study design and will work together with expatriate specialists in
implementation and in formulating recommendations for government action. A
timetable has been agreed on with Government for exchanging views with the
Association.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
111.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Malawi and the Association, as well as the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
112.      Special Conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
113.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 41 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
114.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington,D.C.
November 29, 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                 AMEX
- 42 -                                     Page I of 6
T A B L E 3A
MALAUI                  - SOCIAL INDLCATORS DATA SKEET
MALAWI                                REFERENCE GROUPS (UrEIGTED AVERAGES) -s
W5OST                    (MOST RECENT ESTLIATE) /b
19GOLk.  1970/b  RECENT  /6         L INCOME               MIDDLE IXCOtCE
.01960    1970- ESTIXTE-          AFRICA S. OF SAHARA     AFtILCA S. OF SAUARA
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                      ..        35.0        62.U               63.9                       97.2
MALE                      ..        45.0        73.0               73.6                      103.1
FEMALE                    ..        26.0        5l.0               3L.b                       t8.5
SECNUOA9Y: TOTAL                    l u         ZLU         4.0              1.5                        17.2
MALE                     1.0         3.0         5.U               1b.7                       23.5
FEMALE                   0.3         1.0         Z.U                8.1                       14.z'
VOCATIONAL (I UF SECONARY)           23.6         :.Y         4.9                7.3                        5.2
PUPIL-rEACHER RATIO
PRIlRY                             41.0        44.U        65.0               L6.4                       42.9
SECUNDARY                          14.0        lo.U        21.0               Z5.1                       23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE ()                 ..        22.1/h      25.0               3b.5                       37.1
PASSEY.ZEA CARS/rOUSAND POP           1.9         2.2         2.4/1              3.3                       13.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/TdJUSASD POP         21.b        23.5        45.b               45.3                       97.d
TV RECEIVERS/TUOUSAND POP             1.8          ..          ..                _.2                       18.6
XLLJSPAPLR ( OAILY GEXERAL
ISTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER TdIUSANU POPULATION               ..          ..         5.3                ;.7                       18.2
CINEMA A'UAL ATTESDA.CX/CAPITA        0.3          ..         0.3L .0                                       O.b
TUTAL LABOR FOrCE (nUOUS)          1570.0      1981.0      2593.0                  ,                          1
FvEALE (PERCENT)                   38.7        38.1        37.2               34.5                       36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              92.0        d9.0        6b.0               76.9                       56.8
i;;:uariY (SC ST)                   3.0         4.0         5.0                9.b                       17.5
PARTICIPATIU. RATE (PCEdCNT)
rtuAL                              45.9        43.9        41.6               40.9                       37.0
.ALE                               57.5        55.3        52.9                53.U                      47.1
FEMALE                             34.8        32.9        30.5               28.9                       27.0
ECONOILC DfiEJEJCY KATIO              1.0         1.1         1.:                1.2                        1.3
iimxKE DISTRIRBUTION
PEKCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
KECEIVED BY
IcKNEr 52 oF NtlUSElOLDS             .         32.6/f
ILGUES  ZG OF OFOLJSEIIOLS           ..        50.67         .
LOWEST ZOZ OF dOLSEWLDS              ..        10.47f
LUEST 401 UF doUSeUOLUS                        21.5. 
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERrY L...=
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                     123.0/c            165.9                      534.2
RURAL                                -'          ''        99.0/c             87.4                      255.9
ESTIIXTEW RELATIVE POVERTY IiCO'IE
LEVEL (uSS PER CAPIrA)
UR8AN                                ''          ''        65.0/c            10U.8                      491.5
RURAXL                               ..          ..        52.0/c             b4.b                      188.l
CSTE:ArEA   POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVESQY LX.LUM LEVEL ()
UAN                                  ..          ..        25.U/c             39.5
RURAL                                ..          ..        85.u7               69.U
.or AVA1LABLZ
sOT APPLICAEILE
/a  The grmup averages for each Indicator are populationwelghted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries anong the
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless othersise noced. -DaEa for 196oO  refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  Data for 1970 .betseen 19b9 and
1971; and data for -Mst RecenL EstimateC bet'een 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977: /d 1976; /e 1962: /f 1967; Ij 1972; /h 1966: Il 1978; Li 1975.
May 1983



-43                                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
T A B L E 3A
HALWi                  - SOCL L INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IAIL1                                REFERECE GROUPS (uE LoHTE AVEAiWS) Ia
HoST                      (QosT RECENT ESTLMATE) lb
194,flIb   197,1  REM'T                 LOJ INCOME             KIDULE ICOHE
/b ._t  EsTrni;t__  AFRICA S. OF SAIASA     AFRICA S. OF SAMARA
ARA   IOUSAUID SQ. U)
TOTAL                               118.5       118.5       118.5
ACPICULTURAL                         38H0        39.5        41.tb
CF FM CAItA (CS)                        50.0        70.0       o00.0              254.6                    1147.9
*              mmci~ENRG  aNSVeArm  ns aCnmL
(KILOGRMS OF COAL EQULVALEHT           ..        5U.0        59.0               79.H                     724.2
POFILATLI AlE VITAL StATISTICS
PUPULATIOS.Iu-LYEA  (THOUUSADS)    3419.U      4513.U      b241.U
URIWI PUPULATIUS (C OF TUTAL)        4.4          b.4         Y.b               19.5                      28.5
FOPULATIOS PRUJECTIONS
FOpULAiT1U0  1S YEAR 200U (.ILL)                           I1.6
STArtUSART POPuLAriOu  (MILL)                              5sU.b
YEAR STATIONARY PrP. EACHtIt                             :ss
POPULATION DESSITY
PER sq. l1O                        28H9        38.1        51.0               Z9.5                      56.5
PER 91_ 8. ACERI LAID             90.u       114.3       145.1               94.1                     131.8
POPULATION AGE STiICTJRE (2)
01;L YRS                          45.5        46.8        46.4               45.0                      45.9
15-4 YRS                           52.1        50.8        49.0               52.1                      51.Z
65 A  ASvD                          2.4         2.4         3.8                2.9                       2.8
POPULATIOS GROTH KATE (Z)
TOTAL                               2.4         2.8         Z.9                2.8                       2.5
URBAN                               4.5         6.6         7.0                6.2                       5.3
CRUDE BIRlH RATE (FER ZI0US)         56.1        56.:        54.2               47.9                      47.6
CRUDE OEATH MArE (PE  T1OUS)         27.1        23.2        22.8               19.2                      15.2
GROSS REPRuDucWtOs RATE               3.4         3.4         3.8                3.2                       J_2
VAStLY PLAS%Nti
;;CEPrURS. AISUAL (Thuus)
UStBS (I OF' fW{lAIEb NonES)         ..-.*---
FOOD -ND  URITION
INDEX UF FO0D PYUO. YL  CAPITA
(19b9-71-100)                        9U.0        91.U        97.0               d7.8                      93.7
PER CAPiTA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (C OF EUlYESESTS)         95.U      IOO.u         94.V               bd.4                      97.1
PROTEI.S GR.S PER DAY)            65.U        7Z.u        b5.0               51.2                      56.u
OF WHICH ANM1AL AND PULSE         14.0        19.U        19.0/c             18.1                      17.2
CH1SLD (AES 1-4) DEATH RATE          49.3        45.4        3b.2               25.7                      23.6
LIFE fXPECT. At aBIRTH YEARS)        37.2        41.6        44.0               47.4                      51.9
ISFAX  MORT. RATE (PER TAWOS)      206.8        193.b       169.1              12b.5                     117.6
ACCESS TO :-AFE UATER CZpOP)
TOTAL                                -'          ''        33.0/d             24.7                      25.4
URKAN                                -'          '.        70.07;             56.8                      70.5
RURAL                                ._          ..        29.0               18.3                      12.3
ACCESS To ESCRETA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                __          ..          ..               28.1
URBAN                                __          _         15_.4fd           b45.7
RU'J .L                              . -         -                            2'.9
PUPULAr[us PEA P1YSICIAN          35250.U     3430.U      4)5U.1             2742U.t                   t2161.I
POP. PER ?URSL:4; PRSO            12940.v/l    905u_U      3hJO_U/c           345b.2                    2292A
POP. PER HOSPITAL UU
TOTAL                             870.0       650.0       740.0             1183_2                    1075.4
URna                              120.0/e    160.U         80.0tc            3S0.b                     402.3
RURAL                            1310.01V    900.0       i4*.607            3177.5                    3926.7
ADLISSIOSS PER IUSPITAL BEO            ..        32.1        39.U
AVERAGE SIZE UF HROSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ._
URBA                                 ..         3.41f.
RURAL                                '.
AVERCE No. or PEzSOaO!I
tOTAL
URBAN
RURAL
ACCESS TU ELECT. (2 OF WZELLICS)
TOTAL
UItAL



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
ANNEX I
- 44. -Page 3of 6
WytiCtTIonOru SOCIAl. mmIConus
Thu roter_ee  grup_ ae     tbc v-  ensit  .p  of .  tbe enbiet cesr  en  (2! a cetry group uitb   -hlubt.Shige  ever. tseue  thus thu reentry greuP .  the
subject ee,air. cecopt for "tl1bter10m l S   tpotor  gap sht.-  Middle 1en. 1erth Attire and Piddle  -tat  in dune  hue.e  -f-r,-ronL-atoa
etrtettevi   in te reerent  gree dat  thu enruenor  ppnet.  ermigietadarisetie           1- n -te   see titetrsd  hen   d  s   clrty7 nt tIhe rento    n
grephe  ue e  te  tntetr.Sne  tueneag   S  ectin   e   tuteictrodrnd  -tu  vilbltysidoe.i   .  e ater,reteneetb
e-Lrine  in retetin  eInerog   et en  indicato  to ecb-r  Thee . n   n  epnetli  srn   h  v1n   n  ltetr  tetn  aeeo --t 0  reetr  cud
ANteAteen   qh.                                                                               eoetnprPenes - thpoleiiun. divided by ecaboref pre-tinia1
-Tot!nI ie  etne ttnpre.tgL tend up.. ad titles .uteru  110.                          pyitnqeiiad tenendctuhe  tnitty le-n.
site usA 1430 dote.                                                                      PeootnrrImrniv fteno  - Pepelanin  dtIided by eoeho  of preettete
bertetture  - Pstaun.ef ugieoltral un nnd tapnretily - peretetLy                 net. ed nIeegaut  eee  celeon   .e. petednee   n
tee cree. peetree. coker end binhegrda   rn  lIe. tetla    1Si0.                   noense .nttr.L-
Se_ rim CAPIA   1)-01pr c.,opie. antteet  attru t nrt prIce.                                   e1lebte iv pehle end prive.- gunero en  epeiciled  eeptiei andd
~iiTflflE~Wy connerelce   nned Ce Petd ha  Otu  JZi4 ML.  beseD                     rhbltt a  ceer.1-aptiseor   uabtent eteuei   tatin
1iu.  in.  -e  :Ia data                                                                      b atb lean  a       I  -heea     teePie Iet    Urnitnpietei  ce o
ear1.or  vet meWlded   Enro  beettetu  Inee. Ieledo huetib edd
ErneT fleStCOWICIt PM C&Prn. - Mte1 epe-n  -eusptt.te of crleo                                 ecioleeet   e frsoti  t  e  by a Atti Lee(ben hr A ntdtee
p.-tear7     y -rut i ;al  n  t-Ipoit.  ee-let.  -etor1 gu  ee   yr-, ee_ee                  oee.etent. .ntune eidele  vie..) -ste- ofl- tepetn          -ceeien  end
o, gc.threI o-leetietyl in kIiegen  nf cool eqiaetpr-PIt-;                                     iede ail.tutd r-ngn  .t nt-e    fWite .,Pe  -te.tieln  purue
i%c0. tin.  -W 1143 d-te                                                                     t..be  horiat  Icld  .Pi  prtne1petl/oe-r   hepitolo. *ee  r-ra
PjruCtotiC  ANt 'ITt   tAliTtt3                                                                tprer.telr   huerttoi  ap  Li.ded eiy .I. aerio.l
tees! rPea;rint.. nd__-c-ptnl-ede  - at of July i; list. 1ilt0. te  itni                   Aatin.prt ie   o  - leii n..M.  etedlnt   to e- dineberge
dorte.                                                                                     it.. i.ptielstlettee  it ti  tenet  t hedn
o  .-g,en L-.n list!. 1v70. ant ilt dens.                                             anae  ir sf tanehl  nns   erbnnst)-tno.nhe  n   ee
retuitteu  n ver 7010 - Crrce  peplee  prejorei   are be.d e ISt                    eel i.ei eotn  -Ie..  A boerde  orLdoer -1 spy enbe inpimod In
te-a  p.pelotto.7 ft-ag  nd en no  their neettte  end fe-htitp                          Lhu tinotLd  n   t       to   epei
coptee leene  Le..  We fee. ILE. etpeteney etahiioln  at 7 y,                            duatitg. reP-et-rely   yIhuiting.    L.,.od  ne- Ienne   trcse   e
Joan.~.Te porster  tee Per-lity r t. nba          I bevn thea   -eenePLed portn.
ueento  detneL rriti  aerereeg n  ive    tene  -1 peut tautly                          _eoa Cu tiet-teipo iperen  .t  ettn       nrt.tin   n   ee
peeingf pereren-     mob rosett  is eIbee e nn   n et th... nine                         Ceenttnl-  Aluttilit cieeetilei  lig  laer   epretg
nobtoies  fstele  end fenlit. ttet  tnr preeele  P.rn-e                          of int. e-bun. eel reto  furlLIen   esetet
teent.sec. vseoiente - ?noeeetinscry re.h .lat  nter  I. neI rot.11CT
IeI ts  tote  rlsui on  net,t - b  not 'ch.     peeei   tote. bPILe   -ne p- tee.  ea.1 - onetenth. - irne tte! no!..  endte
-ota tet ee   ci  erahd                                                              tcnornhn    e             na-  en  tre.  - Capne - so.  eedr
t_elcen  tit  lil. un  lS dot..Puplte nenely nt 12 t                                                                  eers ste.;  MrIpodnetee    r
i yaen.  oner  -ite ,t     ) ynr endI ser  cc1 peectge of etd-tr .1viP.y or                            prteni e--L neceddo by teacitetieOnIV
peeeeu;_id  ti.,  end 1901 dote.dIV-.                                                ut-P tseee rat     roao  n  ueiCrn-Ttlurdsnonotdi
Pnt,:.teisCnt  -ot  E Peet - tete  - enne  .rn-h tee-f toto                                Adt ptner en-d  I..n.r  :etiu dile  beI.   -.nt.r  nibt no p  ina tuno
poputatie  tee lSC-tO. inns-f. ae  1970-41.                                                a perecageW -ot intul  shpepst-ett"nce  11 pen  and IIIr.
ytrrnois;ht  tI.., o-d 1901 dat.                                              (Xatitytet
Cret bn  Kt (per th-oned) - ace1 deothe per ibe ln              t d-P-er                   PeenuFonle   teetrnlnei- IPeno  e-r i 'toetese
19teie;  90,l0. ond t1tl ds-.                                                     coneeisIctta   ih   eon -nLelc  enbtieeno  Anree  end
Since  o tndetion-in  -rrgesber of degherr  east  utt.,ee  in                           ettter  vbtoI-e
--L t         Wrsittc   retied it ehe ropeine    -eet eg-oeetr-                       !e1g,rete    retu oo  sseen   - st tp-e -  reecner  top redis
zertlltty ren; neeott  lvo-yee aerate  ening i. ue. lilt, end                       broede..ne eni Ieo  p=tt  pe tneee  etpspet-ie; eene 
tint.                                                                                     lirnned roceeve  In nutris  n  in F-n Idi. egatetIf tPa
oP iiei-eoenn  dnvLr   eede_pSte- ot nue-ne  fenoty pleofts                        cetirie  oboinbed ileeeto.
pragran.                                                          IV beretrept leerV I- "hucted peplAtias) - TV eceiver fur brnedee  in
Feil Ieote  -            ,er -teero t of ortod sen) - ftcctti of  Itreind                    p..-ctpntt  -e   --..n  ptte; erednetecend WV tee-ee
sof ebid=eret" age(1-  etorn)__  sesee.irbcete  deree  ye                              lv cotrle  od innar.~           renst.e  f TVni use  IL Etece
It celd                                                                                                -....tLae  rv  lOseprCrehno  Im    baeL   ntais-Shtteanre
.ot.    eoJ reed.ertoo tec C.,ve ltiit-fi"teeIi -  'ins1o `p-r cepip          rufrntn  eet   nice..!          - v. -.rt-e -eea  teasd  n.  i. enie
ott ten nt  -  see  uindod).  dagtegete p-edenion nf mob etor  Ia                    neite ete
esteetiest  eoog  predse   ertie  fteiptt; lici-bi. life, en  I'D
dots.                                                           Lent' tOECt~~~~~_A
Pe=p teet   -mnlv of -retere  ttrnnireteol-CatE- t                                         T-Io abet Fnpc  ftben-ands! - r-ena-cetl  -etter Pern-.  -ielftte  aeed
.u-vg  sesltlee  et ne  tedeW,setlbe  ecnyprtpt  pe                                        tne  wlb t.oepleyed bet etetdien ico:eee *1-   -td-. etc.  -enerlo
heornuie troei-ntd hr FAD houn  entytleie   ede ter eu-eI                         "trieeIeen        abo force IvPrcine. feresir.. Featin  eel
--ctiotyn  heolnh ee1etdertnnoernetliaeee    body eNighe.                                    nIehIe  asrvein   f tenet lebo  fortes hi. lif7en  tin!i I         ta..
one tn   e Ietd    eten   eteln   n   lntnI   ees  for  etcIedstr.toreeve). ahertore i eli- .cotrcte.1  nefepentme
Ze.eie.tpoo   ponsIteprde  P-Ptnts ensnn  o  per ejit                                         VOlllt end 141 dot.
neCser   d  nI enta.ne   set  vi toe tS. atted. en oboe.                                Putieoto  be         Mree      ee.Let.  aP  teleprtcE.-tn   -
pee  pnei.stuih It flee ebesd ho  ntaot prucei.  The                              list, til0. etA  19i1 dot. ito`  or ba-d onteapricptsrn
eteoderde.    I- tne  thu  th.- of 1) nu o  ino  proei  eatl fl sperL-t.etl   eg-nen niisr  of thu popee-ies. set Inn  tine tree.  A
.I.tulprtl  nenencg  t        frth  -nlt, Pr.se  by FADi ebe                        P. etleate  or  pE- net:,lesenn.
hidcrit teiuny19-.iL97 sod tiE0 don.                                               teeeni              "IaneoPtit - toti. ofpaltened 1 sd ii uel orr
drvdfine steals uo  pelt  in g-n  per dsp; 1991-b5. 1970 ad 1977
Childtor I-A)bec Pn (p1..rP ehee).l -at leetbe per tintne  iitreieo   rrueIc    (beth in  -h -d bind) - Peeeivd by rtrhIea   5
age gtsp 1-  years. tochildren t tile out eap; for   s dooLupin              prai*Poo2pecn.P-oee  Z. pe.t-.. end P-oo  10  Pcor  of
ceucertee dte deetes trs. tite rble; ins. ti7t aSi0  ae                             eewie
lTUP                                                                                     loENeT TWRGT? COWFPS
Istat Mibetteli  Mete Ier ieet)-enetethe of inte_  ene   aettedtslnie Po-tt Iss   LrteI (Ctf pe cepne I.  ur-bo end retc
pee  ofag  pe -t.uce  lIne birhb; 19*0. 1570 ad 19iidot. -dIteIe_ ponet  inc   tee  ictu   ne   ce  hb oc      tie
ine   sp!ly (tvtloe   reted  -eops  enor   t wreid ito                                 stnened beete(Uee  ne   edtlS$ Per copIes) .   in o  r-It
ae taniet-   netep to'h eu t'lt te   protctdA berobeln. eprtag, end                        tnt   rlamn  Pn-.tY  m_  leve  i. se-thtnd of ...-e   per rapin
seetecry  eile) oepereente  of tiei reepeecre peeeliieee.  I en-          perona  teve  of the ceetry.  Peen be ie. drin ftre.            iee
ti 1ehtsnyh  eetoe  at being  lbi  meselear. e   e                                  Ptntd Po-li-ts bets Obnslt- Porerce inren  teen  (Zr              l-so
hus. I  moo  aps  retnochi  -cenn4 tapip due. tie %-1utt eted  no  - rrPreo  etpptten ne-  adesaj   'C  ac  shet
euaer  of ti  besboL4d. a-e  hu.- - 'ped a  tpnsrten  pen ofp,
thu  o  o  eri  thu felp'. mi-  erode.
ace t   eteeLteeeeZI Pprete  oeein   - to) uebu. end
repe -     bOeo v   epe itl orbe Pt.        tal  eetn  by netrei
.pIarse - peip-ee  of thoir rc-tpnclv  popeet-en-   Pcets d1ap-1c
nay tecllde thu ecleet._. endItopoeg. title or oItti    tretrno. ettst    e  Sated lbutili
btnta eoreo a   eteonierby utte-hoe'   ynae  thu se  of pit.eoi   elceedPnctsabvreo
brne  andeletu  ieu-.l-ton.no-l



BEST GOPU MALL
-45 -
Page 4 of 6
,adai       : 6m2 - (1w1u, thna"o)
aP NW CO          m     - (1"1)
*~~~~~~~~~a *urt a u)
12            J78               LIM 191D  15       1 =)           1911  1911   M911   19R6       197
rodWAdtC P:1!Ct                 IJ2          8.1       8.2    -0.         0.9    2LD              2.6   3A0    3.5   3.9         4.2
Amdalib=              ML9         -1.2       4.6     -.9        5.      2.2             2.7   3.2     3.6   3.8        3.8
ZWN-               12.                      9.1       3.9   IJ   6a.             1.5             2.5   3JD     3J7    44       4.9
Seti                           515A         8A4      IDJ      43       -D.Y      2.0             2.5   2.9     3A    3.8        4.3
C_Bptom                         122A          5.6      16      -D9       D.6       3.5             IA   IA0      2.2  312       315
am  luto                        22.0 D   6sa         -ID.8   -22.9    -25.1   -25J7               20.2  13.7    9J8    6.1       6.3
l    o  f aws                   297.3        -4J1     2 A      27.       -6.1    -4.6              6.7   S.      6.9   4.9       4.9
4EK   of-OM                     402LZ        29.1      2.1    -2.S       -OJ3   -IIJ9. YA*.5                    L4    3A         4.2
n_ ~-1                         56J3       25.3    -47.3   -M.6    Db34       1-   -%.            -
PIMS
DIP  drAM  (1979-1B)                    97.4      IOD      115       133     156
amEwrbKx_t+)                       1.185    1M       I23l     1.119     0.99
ow  o f CDP at lait kd    (St                       A(_10_(
(at       pl=t  o                                  (at a_tat I91  )rk
1975   1911   1911   IMl                            1975-        19g>4     191W
Cow  intc  p ,T                                   mmO    mmg  ICO D  DA                                 5.6         2A6        4
Awiu                                            37.5  327 39.7   3B.B                                 Si1          3J3       3.9
rabo-Y                             19~~A   19.S   1113   19.1                             4.7         I.S        S.2
*ewe                                            3.1   OA 420   U 2 Z                                  5.9    2     .    S     J
_xAwj                                            BSA   859 91.5   U.2                                   5           3.2        3.7
Qm_      _                                       MA.   2S.9   19.2  22 D4.3                                        -1.9        7.
b CMw                                        211b   30A9   Z4.1  29D                                tJ.7         1J        4.9
=5                                       5D.9  427    MA.  MLI                                  32          1.0        4.5
am= IZudndp1.6   13.    9.5   IIa
:S7  rwn wr    iw
0r  _om                                                14.1     15.       16.5      17.4
Qm   _g__nc                                             IL       16.5      15.4      23.9
pS-7   (^F) or dofktt(                                  -3.9    -1.1        1.1     -45
co , Wt=                                           4.7     I2A      119        11.3
f                                    ~~~~~~~~~~2.7    11.2  8i   IA2
1975-4  1911D45  1911>9
(W per  wth 8        toC)                  1.9                      0.0      IA
a-V amrAlmi;   row (S1                                 6.1      IJ      3.1
6.4     7J7      4.6
zo                                             0.12     0.13     Om2
lmw  9lti                                                 -0.       0.4      1.0
Cmp        Wm_ o    o  at       amet.
b R _|c1-  _              pdo..
15t   Afi aW   g



BEST Copy Al'AILABLE
- 46 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
PopIaLtio     : 6226 - (mid-1981, t1mliand)
OP Per CpiMta: U0S          - (1981)
mMa,  - er  lle
nmal Qth rate (Z)
(st rti ta   199D prics)
miunt
(milUan USS                     AW                                                Itoected
idieator                              at current prices)
1982         1976   1979   1980   1961   1982(e)                  1983   19W.   1965   19R6   1967
LnERML IRAWE
erdchandise exports                              256.4        -9.5   25.4   28.9   -9.7   -3.2                      6.4    6.1    4.8    4.8    4.8
Pliury                                        237.3        -9.5   25.9   21.1   -9.7    2.2                      6.5    6.2    4.8    4.8    4.8
iufactures                                      19.1       -8.8   17.2  151.4   -9.8  -".1                       4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.5
Mardiandise tqprts                               227.3        23.0    n.1  -ZS.2   -0.9  -21.0                     1..Z    SA      4.9    3.9    4.3
Food                                            9.0        23.5    0.n  -23.9  158.9  -68.8                    -20.0    0.0    1.6    2.6    3.0
Petrolsn                                       48.0         8.1   29.0   -8.7   -5.4   -2.0                      5.3    2.4    2.8    2.9    3.2
macinewry and equdpcint                         58.7       54.0  -17.8  -17.9  -17.0  -12.5                     16.3   15.2   10.6    6.3    6.6
(lXerrs                                        111.6       13.0    4.5  -32.7   -6.8  -18.2                     20.4    1.9    2.5    2.9    3.3
PRUQC3
Esort prtcindeK                                   -          108.5  100.0  I.2  113.3  101.0                     107.5  114.0  123.2  131.1  139.6
IIW -rice ti e                                    -          H7.7  10U.0  114.7   95.5   97.7                     103.0  112.5  121.5  129.6  13H.2
Termn of trade index                                         123.7  100.0   89.1  118.5  103.4                    104.3  101.3  101.   101.2  101.0
composition of Mradiae Tnrde (2)                                   h,erqp Anml ileme (2)
(at current prices)                                       (at catt 1979 pricea)
1975   19)0  1985   1990                                      1975-80      198D-85    1985-90
Exprts                                         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                                       9.6          1.4        4.9
Primary                                     92.6   88.3   93.6   93.4                                        8.3         2.7         4.8
Mrlufmures.                                 7.4   11.7    6.4    6.6                                       17.8       -11.6         5.3
lioriottm 100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                                                                           -1.4        -0.2         4.6
FoR                                           6.9    5.1    3.4    3.1                                      -0.9        -17.0        3.1
Petrolem                                     9.1   16.9   17.6   16.4                                        8.3          1.0        3.2
Maddory a-d equipnt                          24.5   27.8   30.3   34.8                                       1.0          2.9        7.5
Others                                       61.5   50.2   48.8   45.7                                      -4.5          0.0        3.3
Share of Trade %dth                Shre of Trade with                    S9e of Trade with
I.=trial Catmtries (2)             Orneloptng Cauntries (2)            Capital Surpls OMl icorterul (2)
1970     1975      190             1970      1975    1980              1970         1975          1980
1D)MICFON OF TIRE
Eports                                          65.3   76.2      69.0            11.3       10.3     7.0             23.4         13.5          24.0
Pri-ary                                       -       -        -               -          -        -                -            -             -
Mmrufactures                                  -       -         -               -         -        -                -            -
laP,                                           56.7   64.8       75.0            24.2      14.5      6.0             19.0        3M.7           19.0
Ial.des octher devlodz  cozntrIe.
Eastern Africa REgiln
)by 24. 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 47 -
ANNEX I
PaRe 6 of 6
Population      6226 (mid-198I, tdlne_rs)
aP Per Cqatat  1E52  - (1981)
MWAI  -                                    ADU AM  P
(milhisD 16S at airisei pra)
S                                               k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Atist                                      Phiected
1978   1979   19t    1981   19C2                            1983   1994   1985   1986   1997  1990
(eat)
HAU1AE OF PAUWS
lportas of as  asn  srvis                  236.9  2B4.0  363.7  363.1  311.0                           348.6  392.3  643.2  493.8  550.2 763.3
- Of hih: Herdadis f.o.b                  184.5  232.3  293.0  293.2  2564                            286.3  322.1  364.b  406.7  453.8 631.6
Iqrt  of pods aid seics                     409.0  526.3  592.5  525.0  442.9                           500.3  557.6  617.6   79.2  752.4 1045.n
Cf Stid: MLrduidi  f.o.b.                 263.0  311.3  341.0  2814  227.3                             273.7  315.1  356.9  395.6  439.9 617.1
Net trafers                                 5.9   -0.4   -4.1   -4.4   -5.0                            -4.5   -5.0   -640   -6.5   -7.5 -30.0
wrint oat bilAe                           -166.2 -243.2 -232.9 -166.3 -141.9                           -156.6  -170.3 4BO.4 -492.0 -259.7 -291.6
Private direct IrnAv t                       -      -      -       -       5.0                            6.0    7.0    to      9.0   30.0  10.0
Official Iut aId                             39.5   46.6   49.9   50.0   45.0                            49.5   55.0   61.0   65.9   70.5  87.2
MI lSm  (ntt)                              312.1  101.1  124.0   90.0   26.6                             22.3   34.1   98.8  102.4  IZ1.0  361.7
Offical                                    55.0   66.0   97.9   77.0   65.9                             72.0   76.8  119.4  111.8  109.2  152.8
Privat                                     57.1   3B.1   26.3   13.0  -39.3                           -49.7  -42.6  -22.6  -9.3   10.9   8.9
olter tt                                     -3.5   81.2   68.2    5.6   52.4                            88.8   83.7   24.6   25.0   21.4  51.1
Chnas In turvs                               18.1   11.3   -9.2   1D.7   12.9                           -10.0   -9.5  -10.0  -10.3  -12.2 -18.4
lnra.rnstiomul rewsr                         72.1   63.2   72.4   51.7   38.8                            48.8   58.3   68.3   78.6   s3.8  139.7
of sdic  1d                                 -      -      -       -      -                              -        -      -      -      -      -
Haste  -  autim  tworts                       2.1    1.4    1.5    1.2    1.0                             1.2    1.3    3.3    1.4    1.4   1.6
EmL  PrAL AD 
Crusa Dizbursnt                             175.5  171.5  209.8  181.0  132.4                           143.0  158.5  215.3  Z2D.7  230.5 319.1
Official tais                              39.5   46.6   47.9   50.0   45.0                            49.5   55.0   61.9   65.9   70.5  87.2
Cxnensional loana                          44.0   42.0   59.3   44.5   44.0                             76.7   7.4  102.3   92.5   87.6  109.9
c                                        15.0   15.7   17.7   15.1    6.0                              5.0    5.8    7.5    86    9.6  12.2
OPEt                                      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.o                              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
UN                                       18.0   34.4   15.1   13.2   24.9                            64.2   60.7   77.5   63.8   53.9  65.9
Other                                    11.0   11.9   26.5   16.2   13.Z                              7.4   11.9   17.3   23.2   24.0  31.8
Ntn-<ncess1nal, Inmi                       92.0   83.0  10o.6   86.5   43.4                             16.8   25.1   52.0   62.3   72.4  112.0
OfficAl pewt Cmdits                       8.0   10.0   3.2   12.7    7.9                               5.0    5.5    8L.   12.2   16.3  Z3.4
Is                                        3.0   12.8    7.6   25.7   21.3                             2.0    3.7   16.6   16.0   16.1  36.4
Other Pltiatersl                          6.0    5.1    6.9    1.8    4.3                              4.7    7.9   12.    16.4   19.8  2.8
private                                  75.0   55.0   57.9   46.3    9.9                             5.0    8.0   I5.0   17.8   20.2  26.5
ltrnal Debt
bt oetaing aSd DiLsawud                  499.0  5n3.0  626.6  716.6  743.2                           765.5  799.6  896.4  9968J  1138.9 1561.8
Offidat                                 348.0  36.0  412.6  489.6  555.4                             627.4  704.2  8Z3.6  935.4 1064.5 1458.2
Fivate                                  151.0  188.0  214.0  227.0  187.8                            138.0   95.4   72.8   63.5   74.4  103.6
TUidisbursed Debt                         215.0  195.0  171.8  199.1  202.9                            94.1  357.9  417.8  22.5  574.3 s)5.8
lebt Service
Total serit Payeits                        40.5   45.0   71.9   95.6  133.0                            133.4  140.1  120.9  12B.6  123.6  119.7
interet                                  16.6   24.3   33.0   44.9   46.8                            43.3   37.4   33.7   34.5   38.5  59.4
DW augs  ad I        sWrdlAe             L5.4   15.9   19.7   26.3   42.7                             18.9   33.3   29.7   41.9   45.2  n.a.
Pay        as 2 lspq ts                     5.2    1.6    3.0    9.8   25.6                            38.3   35.7   27.3   26.1   22.5  15.7
harg.e  tt       sate on nw Ism    (2)        4.5    8.3    5.7    6.8    7.4                             6.5    7.7    6.1    7.1    7.6   8.6
     Official                                    2.S    2.5    2.7    4.6       -                              -      -      -       -      -     -
Private                                    11.3   12.5   10.6   16.7      -                              -      -       -      -      -      -
Awrige hoaurity of raw lans (year)           29.4   18.4   Z3.9   30.0   24.6                            29.1   24.6   29.9   26.7   24.6  23.3
Official                                   36.4   34.5   32.3   35.4      -                              -       -      -      -      -      -
Private                                     5.7    6.9   10.3    5.6      -
As 2 of Debt Outstanding
at End of December 31. 1981
maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                        33.4
Maturities due within  10 years                      47.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
lnterent due within first year                        5.3
Eastern Africa Region
Kay 24. 3983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page i of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1983)
Bank
incl.
Loan or                                                             Third                    Un-
Credit No.    Year    Borrower           Purpose                    Window    IDA         disbursed
Four loans and 16 credits have been fully disbursed                  71.20   131.63
711-MAI       1977    Malawi            Water Supply                           7.00        1.13
1610-MAI       1978    INDEBANK          First DFC                    3.00                  0.25
857-MAI       1978    Republic of       National Rural
Malawi            Development
Program I                            22.00        5.67
910-MAI       1979                      Education III                         14.50        3.84
992-MAI       1980                      National Rural
Development
Program II                           13.80        7.33
1099-MAI       1981                      Highway IV                            33.00a       9.52
1123-MAI       1981                      Education IV                          41.00b      24.75
2027-MAI       1981                      Technical Assistance          1.00                 0.33
1183-MAI       1981       -              National Rural Development
Program III                          7.30C       5.43
1272-MAI       1982                      Lilongwe Water Supply
Eng. Project                         4.00d      3.24
1330-MAI       1983                      Fifth Education Project               34.00       32.63
1343-MAI       1983                      NRDP IV                               10.60       10.60
1351-MAI       1983       -              Health Project                         6.80        6.80
1352-HAI       1983                      Smallholder Fertilizer                 5.00        5.00
TOTAL                                                 75.20   330.63
of which has been repaid                               1.81      4.40
amount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDAI                       73.39   326.23
TOTAL undisbursed                                      0.58   115.94       116.52
l
a Credit of SDR 25.9 million.
b Credit of SDR 32.2 million.
c Credit of SDR 6.5 million.
d Credit of SDR 3.6 million (not yet effective)
NOTE:  The status of the project listed in Part A is
described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors
on April 30 and October 31.



DES  CPuri AUNRILILE
- 49 -
ANXII
Page 2 of 2
B. IFC INVESTMENT IN HALAWI
September 30, 1983
Investent   Fscal                             Type ofotal
Year   ______                                                    Reid    Undis-
Number         Year      Obligor               usine                L      Tot    by IFC  bursed
326-ma        1976/    David Whitehead       Textiles              108 0.         61-
618-MAI       1982     & Sons (Malavi)                             10.8  10.8    6.1
Limited
362-MAI   1977/    Dwangw.a
1981     Sugar Corpora-        Sugar          -       9.9   9.9    8.8        -
tion Limited
434-MAI       1979      Investment and       Development 0.6         -    0.6    0.6        -
Development                         00nance
Bank of M.alavi      Company
w0-I 1980  aotels              Tourism        -       2.0   2.0    2.0       1.6
Limited
542 - MIW     1981/    Ethanol Company       Manufactur-
614-MAI       1982     Limited of            ing uacorol
Nalawi               from
M-olasses     0.2    2.2    2.4    2.3        -
vTOALS      0.8  24.9   25.7   19.8       1.6



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 50 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Supplementary Crelit Data
Section I:
Timetable of Key Events
Ca)  Credit request to Association         June 1983
Cb)  Appraisal mission                     July/August 1983
Cc)  Completion of Negotiations            November 18, 1983
Cd)  Planned date of effectiveness         Ninety days after the date
of signing
Section II:
Special IDA Implementation Actions
it is planned that a mission will visit Malawi in December to
accelerate the Governm-at's preparation for Credit effectiveness and
project implementation particularly the energy component.
Section III:
Special Conditions
(a) The Government would: (i) by June 30, 1984, employ a head of the
Energy Unit and a counterpart energy economist/planner with
qualifications, experience and under conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Association (para. 93); (ii) by June 30, 1985
have completed a medium-tenm energy investment plan (para. 93);
and (iii) by September 30, 1985 have exchanged views with the
Association on its work program to implement it (para. 93);
(b) The Government would: (i) by June 30, 1984 employ suitably
qualified consultants to carry out the power tariff study with
qualifications, experience and under conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Association (para. 98); (ii) by June 30, 1985
would complete the study; and (iii) by September 30, 1985,
exchange views with the Association on its findings and
recommendations (para. 98);



BEST COPY AVAIBLE
- 51 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) The Government would: (i) by February 1, 1984, have employed a
consultant to conduct the industrial price control study with
qualifications, experience and under conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Association (para. 99);
(d) The Government would: (i) by April 30, 1986 complete the
implementation and evaluation of the pilot fuelwood savings
program (para. 97); and (iii) by June 30, 1986 exchange views on
its proposals for full scale implementation (para. 97); and
(e)
The Government would: Ci) by June 30, 1984 have employed a
financial analyst with qualifications, experience and under
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association
(para. 100).






