Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 5349-BR
SATFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
April 8, 1985
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
I This document has a restricted distribution and mry be ui by reciients only in the performance of
their offiec  duties. ItS contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorrition.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                      B 8razilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                            CrS 1,640.00 I/
Cr$ 1.00                           USS0.00061
CrS 1 million           =          USS609.75
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                  -      January 1 to December 31
Northeast Rural Development Program =        April 1 to March 31
Project                               =      April 1 to March 31
1/ Exchange rate at time of appraisal (June 1984).



GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BB               Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BDRN             Baxico de Desenvolvimento do Rio Grande do Norte
(State Development Bank)
BNB              Banco do Nordeste do Brasil
(Bank of the Northeast of Brazil)
CAERN            Companhia de Aguas e Esgotos do Rio Grande do Norte
(State Water Company)
CD               Desenvolvimento Comunitario
(Community Development)
CDM              Companhia de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Minerais
(State Mineral Development Company)
CEASA-RN         Central de Abastecimento do Rio Grande do Norte
(Central Marketing Organization of Rio Grande do Norte)
CEPA-RN          Fundacao Estadual de Planejamento AJricola do Rio Grande
do Norte
(State Agricultural Planning Foundation)
CIDA-RN          Companhia Integrada de Desenvolvimento Agricola
(State Agricultural Development Company)
COBAL            Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
(Federal Food Campany)
CPATSA           Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid
Tropics)
DNOCS            Departmento Nacional de Obras Contra as Secas
(National Department of Drought Works)
EMATER-RN        Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural do Rio
Grande do Norte
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA          Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Federal Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER         Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Federal Company for Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension)
EMPARN           Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Rio Grande do Norte
(State Agricultural Research Company)
I This document has a resuicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perrormance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



FAO              Food and Agriculture Organization
FINSOCIAL        Fundo de Investimento Social
(Social Investment Fund)
FUNRURAL         Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural
(Assistance Fund for Rural Workers)
IC               Comissao Interministerial Para o Nordeste
(Interministerial Commission for the Northeast)
IDEC             Instituto de Desenvolvimento Economico
(State Economic Development Institute)
ICM              Imposto a Circulacao da Mercadoria
(Value Added Tax)
INTERN           Instituto de Terra do Rio Grande do Norte
(State Land Institute)
MC               Conselho Municipal/Conunitario
(Municipal/Comnunity Council)
ORTNS            Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesoro Nacional
(Readjustable Obligations of the National Treasury)
POLONORDESTE     Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do
Nordeste
(Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the
Northeast)
PROCANOR         Programa Especial de Apolo as Populacoes Pobres das Zonas
Canavieras
(Special Program of Support for Poor Populations of the
Sugar-Growing Zones)
PROH.IDRO        Programa de Recursos Hidricos
(Water Resources Use Program)
PROTERRA         Programa de Redistribucao de Terras e de Estimulo a
Agro-Industria
(Land Redistribution and Agroindustrial Modernization
Program)
RDC              Conselho de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Regional Rural Development Council)
SCU              Unidade de Coordenacao Estadual
(State Coordinating Unit)



SDR              Super:ntendencia Adjunta de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Adjunct Superintendency for Rural Development)
SEPLAN-PR        Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Federal Planning Ministry)
SEPLAN-RN        Secretaria de Planejamento do Estado do Rio Grande do
Norte
(State Planning Secretariat)
SERTANEJO        Programa Especial de Apolo ao Desenvolvimento da Regiao
Semi-Arida do Nordeste
(Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast)
SPAG             Secretaria Publica de Assuntos do Governo
(State Secretariat for Government AffaJrs)
SRDC             Conselho Estadual de Desenvolvimento Rural
(State Rural Development Council)
STC              Comissao Tecnica Estadual
(State Technical Commission)
SUDENE           Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development for the Northeast)
TSA              Programa de Pesquisa do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Semi-Arid Tropics Research Program)



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . *....... ............ * ..... iv - vi
I.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  .... ........... .......... . . .... ....  1
A.  Agriculture in the National Economy  ...................      1
B.  The Rural Northeast  ..................................       1
C. Government Development Strategy for the Rural
Northeast  .............................................      2
D.  Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector  ...........      3
E.  The State of Rio Grande do Norte  .................O.....     4
II. THE PROJECT  ......................................... .*e...      6
A.  Origin and Rationale .......               ......*..e.vo.     6
B.  Objectives  ...      ....... ............ *....... *......    7
C.  Strategy and Design  ........ . . . . . . . ................................... .  8
D.  Brief Description        ....... ..    .............. .    9
E.  Detailed Features  ........ e.*.......   o-e..................o............  10
Water Resource Development  .........        ..........    10
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production ......     12
Rural Investment Credit ...............................   14
Mqarketing  ...................................................    16
Support to Small Rural Communities  ..................    16
State Project Administration  *....................    18
Land Tenure Improvement  *............................    18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during June/July 1984. The mission comprised Ms. P. Pomerantz, and
Messrs. C. Emanuel, A. Cajina, M. Fairless, H. Floyd, J. Innes,
D. Mitchnik, and H. von Pogrell (Bank).



- ii -
Page No.
III.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING   .....  .......................... .                       19
A.   Project Cost   ..........................................                        19
B.   Financing   ............--....................-----------                        19
C.  Procurement   9              ..............      .    ..... ....... ,....         20
D.  Disbursements   ... . ..          .........................................       22
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   .. ........ ........ ..*..   * .... .............             23
A.   Project Organization and Management   .......             .............          23
Federal and Regional Levels                      .........................    23
State and Local Levels   ..............................                       23
Unification of Rural Special Programs  ............ ......                    24
B.  Annual Planning and Budgeting   .........................                         25
C.   Operating Agreements   ................  .........              ..........       25
D.   Monitoring and Evaluation   ................. . ............                     25
E.   Accounts and Auditing                ............................                26
V.   PRODUCTION, DEMAND AND MARKETING   .............. ............                         27
A.  Production   ........................................... .......o.......          27
B.  Demand and Marketing   ........... . * ........... -..... . ..                    27
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS   .... ................... ............ ........                     28
A.   Illustrative Farm Models   .............................                         28
B.  Effects of Drought   ....................................                         29
C.   Farm Incomes                   ..........................................        31
D.   FJscal Impact   .            ...............   ...... .... 0-00-6069             31
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   .......................                          32
A.   Economlc Rate of Return   ....             ............................          32
B.   Other Project Benefits  .......................... ..... ..                      33
C.  Environmental Impact                        ......................... .           33
D.   Project Risks                  ..........................................        34
VIII.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   ....                           35



- iii -
ANNEXES:
1. Evolution of Rio Grande do Norte Agricultural Production
2. Project Priority Areas and Municipalities
3. Support to Small Rural Communities
4. Criteria for Compliance with Selected Key Loan Conditions
5. Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities
6. Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
7.  List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies
8. Key Indicators for Monitoring and On-going Evaluation
9. Total Annual Area and Production of Major Crops
10. Yields and Areas of Major Crops at Farm Level
11. Project Economic Analysis
12. Principal Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
13. List of Working Papers and Key Documents in Project File
CHART:
1.  Project Coordination and Management Chart
MAPS:
1. Program Area - Map IBRD 18480
2. State of Rio Grande do Norte - Map IBRD 11684 R



- iv -
BRAZlL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing
Agency   :      CEPA-RN for coordination of all state and federal agencies
participating in the Rio Grande do Norte State Rural
Development Plan.
Amount:          US$61.4 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Beneficiaries:  Some 351000 low-income families operating farms of up to
100 ha in the State of Rio Grande do Norte would be the
direct beneficiaries of farm improvement components. An
additional 70,000 families would also benefit from the
water supply, community development, and marketing services
components.
Project
Description:    The proposed project is the second in a series of projects
within the new Northeast Rural Development Program,
designed to increase, on a regional basis, the efficiency
and impact of rural development efforts. The project would
improve the beneficiaries' standards of living, incomes,
and employmant opportunities. It would support water
resource development for both production and consumption,
adaptive agricultural research and rural extension, rural
investment credit, marketing services, funding for
community sub-projects, and state project coordination.
Risks:          Although simpler in design than previous Northeast rural
development projects, efficient delivery of project
services and interinstitutional cooperation among a number
of agencies would be important for project success. During
project preparation, institutional weaknesses were
identified and measures introduced to improve institutional
effectiveness and coordination arrangements. The project



- v -
includes monitoring, on-going evaluation, increased
technical assistance, and community involvement to foster a
more efficient institutional environment. It does not
include some important rural development activities, such
as land tenure improvement, health, and education.
Regional projects for health and education are currently
under preparation; a Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project will be presented to the Executive
Directors shortly. While efforts have been made to
coordinate the planning and implementation of all the
projects, the execution and expected benefits of the
proposed project are not directly dependent on the
implementation of the sectoral projects. Recurring drought
conditions present considerable risks to small farmers and
to expected benefits under the project. Decreasing
drought-related risks for small farmers has influenced
overall project design, especially in the areas of water
resource development and technology generation and
diffusion. Finally, delays and shortfalls in counterpart
funding have posed problems in on-going rural development
projects. Recent changes in funding channels, a new source
of counterpart funds, the consolidation of rural special
programs, and the concentration on key production
constraints should help secure adequate counterpart
funding.



- vi -
Estimated Costs:                                     --US  Millions--------
Local       Foreign       Total
A.  h'ter Resource Development              13.5         4.9          18.4
B.  Agricultural Research                    6.6          .8           7.4
C.  Rural Extension                         27.0         1.9          28.9
D.  Rural Investment Credit                 20.2         3.6          23.8
E.  Marketing                                3.2          .8           4.0
F.  Support to Small Rural
Communities                           7.6         2.8          10.4
G.  State Project Administration             9.4          .7          10.1
Total Baseline Costs                        87.5        15.5         103.0
Physical Contingencies                       1.7          .7           2.4
Price Contingencies                         26.2         4.6          30.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        115.4        20.8         136.2 1/
=MM==       minmm        immum
Financing Plan:                                   --US S Millions----
Local       Forelgn       Total
Government                             74.8         -             74.8
IBRD                                   40.6        20.8          61.4
TOTAL                                 115.4        20.8          13b.2
Estimated Disbursements: --------------- US$ Millions -------…                   -
Bank FY         1986    1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Annual           b.4 2/  5.5    9.1   10.0   10.0    9.0    7.9    3.5
Cumulative       b.4    11.9   21.0   31.0   41.0   50.0   57.9   61.4
Rate of Return:        19%
1/ Including about US$b.9 million of local taxes.
2/ Including initial deposit of US$3.4 million into the Special Account.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agriculture in the National Economy
1.01      Although its relative importance in the Brazilian economy has
declined, agriculture remains an important sector, employing abou!. 30% of
the labor force and contributing about 11% to the GDP and about 38& to
total export earnings (1982). During the 1970s, the gross value of
agricultural production grew at an annual rate of nearly 5%. Since 1980,
however, trte value of agricultural output has declined, reflecting lower
international commodity prices, adverse domestic pricing policies,
unfavorable climatic conditions, and a restricted agricultural credit
supply. Per capita production of basic foods, such as maize, beans, rice,
and manioc, has also fallen. In most years, Brazil has remnained
self-sufficient in food, except for wheat. However, periodic imports of
beans, maize, and rice have occurred, particularly in bad crop years.
1.02      Iu recent years, the share of agricultural lands devoted to
Industrial and export crops (sugarcane, cocoa, soybeans, citrus, and
tobacco) has risen sharply. Brazil is the world's largest producer of
coffee and sugarcane, the second largest of soybeans, and the largest
exporter of coffee and orange juice. The changing structure of
agricultural production reflects the fact that most productivity gains,
expansion of production area, and increased market integration have
occurred in the South and Centerwest, while the North and Northeast have
largely continued to follow traditional agricultural practices. Because of
the sector's key role in curbing inflation and improving the balance of
payments, the Government has shown a continuing strong commitment to
agricultural development.-1
B. The Rural Northeast
1.03      The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui,
Ceara, Rio Grande do liorte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe and
Bahi.a, as well as the federal territory of Feruando do Noronha and the
northern portion of the State of Minas Gerais (Map IBRT) 18480).  Its total
area is o-er 1.5 million kim2, over 18M of the country's total area. The
Northeast has been viewed as tne nation's foremost problem region since the
late 1800s. The country's wealthiest region during the colonial period, it
subsequently lagged behind as industrial, agricultural and commercial
activiLy shifted ro the south.
1.04      Drought and uncertain rainfall, a highly skewed land
distribution, and limited urban employment opportunities have resulted in
1/ For further discussicn on the agricultural sector, see A Review of
Agricultural Policics in Brazii  September 11, 1981, Report No.
33U5-BR.



-2-
high levels of poverty and underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million
people migrated from the Northeast. The large number of recent migrants is
at least partially the result of five successive years of severe drought
affecting large areas of the Northeast from 1978 to .L83. In 1980, the
Northeast had a total population of 35 million (about 29% of the national
total) growing at 2.2% per annum and an average population density of 22.5
inhabitants per km2, About one-half of the population lives in rural
areas, and over 50% of the regional work force is engaged in agriculture.
Rural incomes are very low. As of 1980, over 80% of the rural population
earned one minimum salary (about US$675 annually) or less, a little over
35% of the national average, and the poorest 50% received only about 10% of
total regional income.
1.05      The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities, including
sisal, manioc, sugar, and cotton, represent significant shares of national
production.  The zona da mata, a narrow, fertile, coastal strip, contains
one-third of the regional population and a major proportion of industry and
plantation agriculture (largely sugarcane and cocoa). The agreste is a
transitional zone contiguous with semi-arid areas, dominated by mixed
farming for the domestic market as well as the raising of beef and dairy
cattle. The sertao, comprising some 750,000 km2, but only sparsely
populated, is the largest of the sub-regions and the most vulnerable to
periodic droughts. Ownership of agricultural land throughout the Northeast
is highly concentrated; about 70% of farm establishments are under 10 ha
and occupy less than 6% of total farm area. At the same time, farms over
500 ha (1% of the total) account for more than 40% of all farm area.
C. Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
1.06      Until the 1950s, most Government interventions in the rural
Northeast were limited to drought relief works and emergency programs and
to incentives for export crops grown on larger farms. The slow pace of
socioeconomic development and the need for improved regional planning led
to the creation in 1959 of the Superintendency for Development of the
Northeast (SUDENE), first linked to the Presidency and later transferred to
the Ministry of Interior. SUDENE was originally responsible for the
coordination of all public investment activities, drought emergency
measures, and powerful fiscal and credit incentives to attract new private
investment. Initiative for regional policy formulation was transferred
back to the Federal Government in the 1970s, and SUDENE experienced a
series of institutional difficulties. However, SUDENE continued to play an
important role in the coordination of federally funded rural special
programs implemented during the 1970s and early 1980s.
1.07      The rural special programs have followed two approaches.  The
first is based on the integrated development of selected subregions and is
focussed on specific target groups. Programs following this approach
include the Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the Northeast
(POLONORDESTE), the Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast (SERTANEJO), and the Special Program of
Support for Poor Populations of the Sugar-Growing Zones (PROCANOR). The



second approach is largely concerned with alleviating the effects of the
recurring droughts. Several parallel programs, including the Water
Resources Use Program (PROHIDRO), the Semi-Arid Tropics Research Program
(TSA), and the Drought Emergency Relief Program, as well as large federal
public irrigation projects, have attempted to increase the productive use
of scarce water resources or to provide temporary drought relief
assistance.
1.08      Planning of a major new development initiative for Brazil's
Northeast began in 1982, stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate
contribution of the special programs and federal irrigation projects in
alleviating rural poverty and underemployment had been limited. The
exercise resulted in a new rural development strategy to be implemented
through a series of sectoral projects in such areas as health, education,
and federal irrigation, and a regionwide integrated rural development
program. The Northeast Rural Development Program is a 15-year program
based upon a comprehensive regional policy framework, a set of subsectoral
strategy guidelines, and multiyear state rural investment plans. While
borrowing from past experience, the program has several innovative aspects,
including the integration of all rural special programs with unified
planning and implementation procedures.
D. Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.09      The Bank has so far made 30 loans, totalling US$1,803.5 million,
for agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one
agricultural credit and export loan for US$303.0 million and one
supplemental financing loan for US$30.5 million, both under the Special
Action Program; three, amounting to US$519.2 million, for agroindustries;
two, totalling US$60.5 million, for livestock development; one for US$18.2
million for grain storage; two, amounting to US$100 million for
agricultural research; one for US$100 million for agricultural extension;
and 19, totalling US$672.1 million, for various settlement, irrigation and
rural development projects, 13 of which are located in the Northeast2/,
two in Hinas Gerais, and four in the North and Northwest. A Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project, which would increase land tenure
security and identify lands for subsequent redistribution to small farmers,
will be presented to the Executive Directors shortly. Completion and
Project Performance Audit Reports for the Alto Turi Land Settlement Project
showed that the project raised settler incomes beyond expectations, but was
less successful in the areas of environmental protection, community
organization, and strengthening of cooperatives. A recent Project
Completion Report for an irrigation project in the Northeast showed that
despite implementation delays due to design changes and social tension in
the area, beneficiaries' net incomes increased beyond original estimates,
and small farmers were capable of moving successfully from subsistence to
comnercial agriculture.
2/ A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank
Country Study, "Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development
Programs for the Northeast,' Washington, D.C., 1983.



-4-
1.10      Ten of the Bank-financed projects are POLONORDESTE rural
development projects located in eight Northeast states. Approved from 1976
to 1983, all of the projects are still being executed, except the Rio
Grande do Norte Rural Development Project (Loan 1195-BR). Implementation
has generally improved over the years, especially in project planning,
coordination, and execution. Alth;ugh no final evaluation results are yet
available, production and productivity increases in non-drought years have
been noted among farmers with secure land tenure in a number of projects,
including those in the States of Sergipe, Piaui, and Paraiba. Nonetheless,
all of the projects have experienced implementation and disbursement
delays. A number of factors are responsible: the unusually severe and
prolonged drought; shortages and delays in counterpart funding and rural
credit provision; limited execution capacity for laud tenure improvement
and small-scale irrigation activities; initial lags in the generation of
drought-resistant technology for small farmers; weak coordination between
research and extension agencies; and limited beneficiary participation in
project planning and implementation. The lack of unified planning and
coordination for all the rural special programs exacerbated these problems
in some areas, leading to duplication of efforts and competition for
relatively scarce funds and trained personnel. When possible, these
problems have been addressed during the preparatioa of the Northeast Rural
Development Program.
1.11      The Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project was partially
financed by a US$12 million loan (Loan 1195-BR) approved in FY197b.
Experience with the project was generally consistent with that of the other
PULONORDESTE projects.  The project, which had the objective of raising
incomes for about 16,000 small farm families, was extended by three years
to September 30, 1984. Many of the project's physical targets were met,
although implementation and disbursement delays occurred (para. 1.10).
Preliminary studies to be included in the post-project evaluation indicate
that production gains were less than originally expected, largely as a
result of the prolongea drought.  Nonetheless, the project sr-ceeded in
strengthening state institutional capabilities, and the services and
infrastructure it supported provide an essential foundation for future
state rural development efforts.
E. The State of Rio Grande do Norte
Location, Natural Features, and Socioeconomic Conditions
1.12      Location and Natural Features.  The State of Rio Grande do Norte,
one of the smallest states in Brazil, is bordered on the north and east by
the Atlantic Ocean, on the south of the State of Paraiba, and on the west
by the State of Ceara (Map IBRD 116d4 R). Most of the 53,00U km2 is
predominantly level to gently rolling; only a few mountainous areas have
elevations higher than 700 m. Less than 2U0 of the state is considered
suitable for cropping, with another 75% which could potentially be used for
pasture. A geological formation of mainly igneous and metamorphic rock
covers most of the interior, resulting in soils which are generally shallow
and impermeable. Underground water aquifers are rare and frequently
saline. A second geological formation of sedimentary rock covers the
coastal areas. It supports soils which are deeper and more permeable,
although a small area on the east coast consists mostly of rocky and sandy



soils. Two important aquifers, the Acu and the Jandaria, are located in
the sedimentary area. The coastal areas have a sub-humid climate and an
average annual rainfall of over 1,400 mm. Moving west and northward,
average rainfall declines rapidly, falling to 500-700 mm in the semi-arid
agreste and below 500 mm in the sertao. Average annual temperature is
270C. Evapotranspiration levels of 1500 mm or more are frequent in the
agreste and sertao, and much of the inland area has a water deficit lasting
from 8-12 months. Rainfall is irregular and tends to be concentrated in a
few brief storms, resulting in high rates of erosion, water loss, and in
some cases, moisture stress in the intervals between rains. The state has
a major river system, the Piranha-Acu, and several secondary systems. Few
of the state's water resources are currently being used for irrigation.
1.13      Social and Economic Conditions.  The state's population is nearly
2 million and is growing at an estimated annual rate of 2%. Population
density is 36 persons/km2. About 58% of the population lives in urban
centers, of which Natal, the state capital, is the largest. Migration from
rural areas has resulted in the rapid growth of the Natal metropolitan area
and small and medium-sized cities. Accompanying the rural exodus, the
proportion of the work force engaged in agriculture declined from 69% in
1960 to 38% in 1980. State per capita income is about US$800 (1980), close
to the average for the Northeast as a whole. Rural incomes are much lower,
averaging about US$200 per capita. Illiteracy, high infant mortality
rates, intestinal diseases, and malnutrition are widespread in rural areas.
Agricultural Production and Services
1.14      Production and Land Tenure.  Although there are some areas where
cropland is underutilized, the area of land in crops, about 1.1 million ha,
exceeds the area considered suitable for cropping, about 0.9 million ha.
Cotton, both annual and perennial, is by far the most important crop.
Other major crops include sugarcane, cashews, beans, manioc, maize, coconut
and bananas. Along with livestock production, which is nearly as important
economically as crop production, the major crops account for about 90% of
the tocal value of agricultural production. Production of sugarcane and
cashews, mainly grown on larger farms in more humid areas, is expanding, as
a result of favorable market conditions and the use of modern technology.
Nearly all basic foed crops and a large part of the cotton crop are grown
on small farms. Small farms under 50 ha account for 87% of farm
establishments, but only 17% of farmland. Conversely, about 7% of the
farms are over 500 ha, but control 44% of farm lands. While the majority
of farms are owned by their operators, about one-fifth of the farms are
operated by farmers who hold no legal title to the land. Another fifth are
operated by renters or sharecroppers. In addition to insecure land tenure
and lack of access to land, intensive cropping on unsuitable lands and the
generally low level of technology result in low average yields for most
crops. The state's vulnerability to the effects of drought further
increases the risks for small producers. During the recent drought period,
yields for maize, beans, cotton and rice averaged between 3% and 21% of
yields recorded in the years preceding the drought (Annex 1).



-6-
1.15      Rural Development and Agricultural Services.  Nearly all of the
investment in rural areas is federally funded and channeled through the
regional rural special programs (para. 1.08). A number of government
entities provide services and promote agricultural development. EMPARN,
the State Agricultural Research Company, has a central station in Natal,
two regional stations in Caico and Mossoro, and 10 substations or field
offices. Research on perennial cotton, basic food crops, shrimp, sheep and
goats, and basic seed production are among the major on-going programs.
Technical assistance is provided to farmers by the State Technical
Assistance and Rural Extension Company (EMATER-RN), through its network of
8 regional and 94 local offices. The extension service is considered one
of the best in the Northeast, but still requires improvement, particularly
among small farmers in the drier areas and those utilizing small-scale
irrigation. The State Development Bank (BDRN), the Bank of the Northeast
of Brazil (BNB), and the Bank of Brazil (BB) provide credit to farmers.
Although the present banking network is considered adequate, the
availability of official credit has been limited in recent years. The
State Agricultural Development Company (CIDA-RN) is engaged in a variety of
activities, including input supply, crop purchasing, and more recently,
irrigation activities. Cooperatives are also active in input supply. The
State Water Company (CAERN) and the State Company for Mineral Development
(CDM), which drills wells, are responsible for rural water supply. CORAL,
the Federal Food Company, is active in food retailing and wholesaling in
rural and urban areas. Previously, a division with the State Secretariat
of Agriculture was engaged in land regularization and titling, but these
activities have been transferred to INTERN, the newly created State Land
Institute. The State Agricultural Planning Foundation (CEPA-RN) is
responsible for agricultural planning, studies, and coordination of the
state POLONORDESTE program.
1.16      The Priority Areas.  Within the state, five sub-areas have been
chosen to receive priority attention for small farmer development. Of the
151 state municipalities, 92 are included in the priority areas. The areas
selected have a high concentration of small farmers and an agricultural
potential which is still relatively underdeveloped. They also present
possibilities for irrigation development, crop diversification, and
increased livestock production, all of which would improve the ability of
small farmers to survive drought. Past investments in services and
infrastructure in most of the areas also provide a firm basis for further
investment. In addition, most of the areas selected would receive priority
attention under the proposed Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement
Project (Annex 2).
II. THE PROJECT
A.  Origin and Rationale
2.01      The Federal Government requested Bank assistance in preparing a
regionwide rural development program in August 1982. SUDENE was delegated
the technical responsibility for regional program preparation, which



involved over 500 federal, regional, and state technicians. An
Interministerial Commission, comprised of high-level representatives from
the Ministries of Planning, Agriculture, and Interior, was established to
provide policy guidance. In 1984, representatives from the Special Land
and Finance Ministries were added, and the Ministry of Interior assumed the
chairmanship of the commission. Preparation of the proposed project in Rio
Grande do Norte began in 1983, when the governor established a special
project preparation group with staff drawn from various state agencies.
Coordination of the preparation work was carried out jointly by CEPA-RN,
the State Agricultural Planning Foundation, linked to the Secretariat of
Agriculture, and IDEC, the State Economic Development Institute, linked to
the Secretariat of Planning. Preparation assistance was provided by
federal and regional technicians, the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program,
and the Bank.
2.02      The Northeast Rural Development Program presents a unique
opportunity for the Bank to support poverty alleviation, increased
agricultural production, and institution-building in Northeast Brazil.
During the last decade, the Bank and the Government have maintined a
dialogue on Northeast rural development issues, and the Bank has financed
ten area-based integrated rural development projects (para. 1.10).  By the
early 1980s, the region's continued vulnerability to drought, increased
rural migration and concentration of land ownership, the relatively slow
growth of Northeast agriculture, the country's financial situation, and the
common problems detected in the projects convinced both the Government and
the Bank that a unified regional approach was needed to increase the
efficiency and efficacy of rural development interventions. The lessons
learned from the on-going projects, the experience acquired by state and
local institutions, and renewed political support for SUDENE now make such
an approach possible.
2.03      The proposed regional program would facilitate Bank lending and
the continuing rural development policy dialogue with the Government. At
the same time, it would permit a decrease in direct Bank involvement in
project preparation, appraisal, and supervision at the state and local
levels, fostering a greater degree of self-reliance among Brazilian
institutions and increasing the prospects for successful, sustained rural
development in the Northeast. Because of the time required for regional
program administration to become fully operational and the varying
preparation capabilities of the states, a series of Bank loans in support
of the regional program is under consideration. The first loans would
assist in the establishment of the regional program structure and support
investment plans in specific states. However, progressively, Bank lending
would become more programmatic in nature, with much of the detailed project
appraisal at the state and local levels performed by Brazilian
institutions.
B. Objectives
2.04      The proposed project, the second in the series planned for the
Northeast Rural Development Program, would constitute the initial phase of
a 15-year rural development investment program. Major objectives would



include improving the standard of living, income and employment
opportunities for low-income, small farmers and increasing agricultural
production. To accomplish these objectives, the project would: (a)
promote water resource development and technology generation and diffusion
to decrease small farmer vulnerability to the recurring drought cycle; and
(b) increase state and regional institutional capacity to provide
efficient, agricultural services to small farmers. Because the removal of
land tenure constraints (para. 1.14) would facilitate the achievement of
project objectives, activities proposed under this project and the
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project have been jointly planned
and would be implemented iu a coordinated manner (para. 1.09).
C. Strategy and Design
2.05      Design of the Northeast Rural Development Program has attempted
to draw upon successful rural development experiences in Northeast Brazil.
Program preparation has resulted in the formulation of regional guidelines
for beneficiary selection, investment strategy and activities, and
operating criteria and procedures. Tentative investment targets and
expected benefits have also been established per state. The guidelines are
to be incorporated in the design and implementation of multiyear state
rural development plans in all ten Northeast states. The first project
within the program, presented jointly with the proposed project, would
provide support for the Sergipe Rural Development Plan and establish the
structure and operating procedures for regional program coordination and
research to support the planning, coordination, and implementation of all
ten Northeast state rural development plans. The proposed project, the
second in the series, would provide support for rural development
activities in the State of Rio Grande do NorLe.  Project preparation in
other Northeast states is currently underway.
2.06      The proposed project has been designed with a view toward
increasing the efficiency and impact of rural development efforts.
Accordingly, the unification of existing federally-funded special rural
programs, the strengthening of planning and implementation capabilities,
and the promotion of active beneficiary involvement have received priority
attention in project design. The resulting project strategy, based on
program guidelines, has the following central features:
(a) Fewer project compoalents than in past integrated rural
development projects, w-ith each component focused directly on
improving small farm family incomes and living standards;
(b)  The inclusion of a community fund for small investments selected,
planned, and implemented by community groups to provide a
concrete mechanism for beneficiary participation;
(c)  Increased investment at the state level in the adaptation of
financially viable technical packages for small farmers, anld
closer linkages between research and extension, particula-rly at
the field level;



-9-
(d) The phasing in of priority areas and types of farmers so that
project services would be provided on a priority basis where land
tenure constraints had been or were in the process of being
eliminated;
(e) Matching the scope of proposed activities to institutional
capabilities, including, where necessary, increasing
institutirnal efficiency through reallocation of staff,
redefinition of structures and responsibilities, technical
assistance and training; and
(f) Improved planning and coordination, including decentralization
wherever possible, streamlined budgeting and funding procedures,
and new, unified, rural development planning and coordination
structures, particularly at the state and local levels.
In addition to these features, a considerable degree of flexibility has
been incorporated into project design. Objectives, strategy, criteria,
procedures, and detailed first-year implementation plans have been reviewed
for each project activity. Detailed programming in each subseque.t year
would result from an extensive annual planning exercise, taking into
account implementation progress in previous years.
D. Brief Description
2.07      The project would provide support for the Rio Grande do Norte
Rural Development Plan. Proposed activities would include:
(a) Water Resource Development, including state-managed public
irrigation schemes, a pilot small dam program, increased inland
fish production, simple rural water supply systems for small
communities, studies and a small reserve fund for future state
irrigation sub-projects;
(b) Agricultural Research and Rural Extension for basic food and
commercial crops, small livestock, and social forestry;
(c) Agricultural Credit, including medium- and long-term rural credit
for investments in crop and livestock production and on-farm
water resource development;
(d) Marketing Services, including training and information services,
improvements to municipal markets and fairs, and a wholesale
supply system for rural food retailers;
(e) Support to Small Rural Communities, including the promotion of
beneficiary participation through a community development fund
for local training programs, group economic activities, and local
infrastructure sub-projects; and
(f) State Project AdministratLon, including a central coordination
unit (SCU) and five regional field offices, for planning,



- 10 -
supervision, Implementation assistance, training, monitoring, and
evaluation of state rural development activities.
Project activities, to be Implemented over a eight-year period, would
directly benefit about 35,000 farm families, each farming or owning under
100 ha, located in the fJve priority areas within the state. A much
greater number of small farmers and their families (about twice the direct
beneficiary number) would benefit from community sub-projects and marketing
activities. A complementary program of land activities would be carried
out under the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (para.
1.09).
E. Detailed Features
Water Resource Development
2.08      The project would Increase water availability for both production
and consumption uses. Activities to be financed under this component
Include: (a) four state-managed, small public irrigation schemes, totalling
about 4,250 ha and benefiting about 4,250 farm families; (b) the upgrading
of the fish hatchery station at Caico, and the construction of a new fish
hatchery at Baixo Acu, to reach an annual production of 2.7 million
fingerlings to be distributed to project farmers; (c) a small pilot program
In the Sao Paulo Potengi/Joao Camara area for the construction of about 100
small dams to provide supp-.ementary frrigation for about 100 farmers;
(d) feasibility studies of areas with irrigation potential and a reserve
fund (about US$2.0 million) to finance one or two small sub-projects
resulting from those studies; (e) construction of about 150 simple water
supply systems, benefiting about 50,000 people in communities with less
than 500 Inhabitants; and (f) instltutional strengthening of CIDA-RN, the
agency responsible for Implementation of state-managed public Irrigation.
In related activities, about 1000-2000 ha of Individual private Irrigation
and about 3,500 cisterns and 600 small communal ponds to provjde water for
human and animal consumption would be Implemented with the assistance of
EMATER-RN and financed under the project's rural credit component
(paras. 2.21 and 2.22).
2.09      CIDA-RN, with support from International consultants, the
National Department of Drought Works (DNOCS), and SUDENE, would be the
executing agency for public Irrigation schemes and the pilot dam program.
A new Agricultural Engineering Department would be created with the CIDA-RN
Technical Directorate to Implement project activities. The department
would have a central unit in Natal and local offices at each of the public
Irrigation sites. EMATER-RN would provide assistance to farmers on
productive aspects. The Secretariat of Agriculture, with the support of
DNOCS, would be responsible for the fish hatcheries. Community water
supply systems would be executed by CAERN, with well-drilling by CDM.
Feasibility studies for future irrigation sub-projects would be prepared by
consultants, supervised by the SCU and SUDENE.
2.10      The four publlc irrigatlon schemes are all located In the
semi-arid region of the state and are based on the joint use of stored



- 11 -
surface and groundwater. Investments have been planned to take advantage
of existing dams and reservoirs where possible. In the Serido sub-project,
a surface storage dam would be built. In the other sub-projects, there
would be upgrading or outlet work on existing dams. In addition to these
surface dams, in each sub-project a series of underground cut-off curtains
to regulate groundwater movement would be built, accompanied by shallow
wells and a sprinkler irrigation system. Soil and aquifer conditions of
the sites are suitable for this type of irrigation development. Individual
plots would consist of an irrigated area of about 1 ha associated with a
rainfed, mixed crop and livestock area of about 9 ha. Project investment
costs per irrigated ha (including costs of all physical infrastructure for
irrigation) range from about US$2,000 to US$4,400. Federal legislation
provides a satisfactory framework for financing and cost recovery of public
irrigation works. Partial recovery of off-farm investment costs and full
operation and maintenance expenses would be financed through a water user
charge to be collected by CIDA-RN individually or through water user
associations. Federal legislation is also satisfactory with respect to the
treatment of the small number of people currently residing in areas to be
submerged by reservoirs. Adequate compensation would be paid, and it is
expected that most of the small farmers would become beneficiaries of the
irrigation sub-projects. On-farm works would be financed by beneficiaries
using rural investment credit.
2.11      Because of the need to gradually build state planning and
implementation capabilities, the planning and execution of the irrigation
sub-projects would follow a phased schedule. Complete and satisfactory
feasibility studies, resettlement plans for displaced populations, and
operation and maintenance proposals for the Serido sub-project, expected to
be initiated during the first project year, were reviewed by the Bank
during negotiations. Satisfactory final sub-project designs and receipt of
proof of land acquisition would be conditions of effectiveness. For the
Encanto and Santana schemes expected to be initiated during the second
project year, pre-feasibility studies were sent to the Bank prior to
negotiations. Complete feasibility studies for the two sub-projects were
reviewed prior to Board Presentation. For the Potengi scheme scheduled for
the third project year, a pre-feasibility study, prepared by a highly
qualified consulting firm, was also reviewed by the Bank prior to Board
Presentation. For all of the irrigation sub-projects, as well as any
additional sub-projects resulting from the feasibility studies financed
under the project, proof of land acquisition, resettlement plans, operation
and maintenance plans, and complete final designs would be sent to the Bank
for approval prior to construction and would be a condition of
disbursement for each sub-project. In addition, the major dams in the
sub-projects would be subject to periodic review by a panel of experts, and
in the case of the Serido dam, the same panel would review the final design
and inspect periodically during construction. Any allocated loan funds
which had not been committed to an approved sub-project by December 31,
1987 would be cancelled. During negotiations, the State provided
assurances on these matters. It also provided assurances that satisfactory
cost recovery provisions, in accordance with Government legislation, would
be implemented. The implementation of agreed upon measures for CIDA-RN's
strengthening would be a condition of disbursement for project water
resource activities.



- 12 -
2.12      Under the Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project (Loan
1195-BR) the Bank financed a comprehensive study on the use of small
reservoirs and dams to decrease drought-related production risks for small
farmers in the semi-arid region of Joao Camara/Sao Paulo Potengi. That
study, which has been reviewed by the Bank, concluded that considerable
potential exists for the construction of small dams which -,uld provide
several hectares of regular and supplemental irrigation on each farm. The
proposed pilot program for the construction of about 100 dams would be the
next step toward a wider dissemination of this type of irrigation scheme
throughout the semi-arid region. EMATER-RN would work closely with small
farmers investing in the dams to develop financially and technically viable
production packages. Because of the time needed to develop reliable
production packages, the element of risk involved, and the relatively high
investment costs for the dam and related structures and equipment (about
US$6,500), the project would provide grants to assist farmers in meeting
about 50% of initial investment costs. The remaining investment and
production costs would be financed by farmers using project investment
credit and government financed short-term production credit (para. 2.21).
2.13      Given the urgency of providing safe drinking supplies to the
rural population, community water supply activities would be implemented
during the first two years of the project. After this period, it is
expected that a regional rural water supply project would continue the
activities begun under the project. Ulnder the proposed two-year program,
CAERN would put into effect water supply sector policies, including
investment and cost recovery criteria, developed by the Inter-Ministerial
Committee of the National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program.
2.14      Each simple water supply system would include a deep well or
surface source, pumping equipment, a transmission line, a storage tank, and
public standposts. Selection criteria for communities would include size
(up to 500 inhabitants), per capita investment cost, and community
willingness to obtain water supply service. The average per capita
investment cost for groundwater systems is about US$67. In exceptional
cases, when sufficient groundwater is unavailable, surface systems
requiring dam construction would be built at per capita investment costs
ranging up to US$150. The communities would be responsible for operation
and maintenance of the systems. Prior to initiation of works, communities
would select one local person and one alternate to be trained by CAERN and
responsible for operation and maintenance. CAERN would provide technical
backstopping and preventive maintenance. During a transition period, the
municipalities and the state would assist the communities in meeting
operating expenses. However, by June 30, 1987, CAERN would apply water
charges which would cover full operation and maintenance costs. During
negotiations, the State provided assurances on this matter. A detailed
plan for operation and maintenance and a plan for water treatment,
inclutding water quality monitoring, were reviewed by the Bank during
negotiations.
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production
2.15      Research activities would redirect state efforts toward improved
adaptation of low-cost technologies for small farmers, focusing



- 13 -
particularly on those whlch make the indJvidual farm unit more resistant to
drought conditions. The project would finance Incremental Investment
costs, salaries, training and operating expenses for: (a) eight natural
resource and agroeconondc studies In the first project year to Identify
major research problems and assist In future research planning; (b) abo-t
260 short- and medium-term research trials at the experiment station level
covering livestock and small farmer crops, Including manioc, bean,., maize,
cotton, and hortlcultural and forage crops, with emphasis on cultivation
practices, fertilizer response, and variety performance; (c) about 55
farm-level observation units to test and adapt Integrated farm production
systems; (d) about 30 ha total per annum of maize, bean, cotton, sorghum,
and rice and manioc to Improve avallable planting materials; and (e) a
foundation flock of about 45 goats and sheep to provide breeding stock for
small farmers. A detailed operating program for the first year has been
reviewed and is satisfactory.
2.16      EMPARN would be the main Implementing agency.  Further
multiplication of basic seeds would be under the responsibility of
CIDA-RN. The observation units, established with close collaboration among
EMPARN, EMATER-RN, and farmers, would test successful experimental station
results and provide lindted diffusion of recommendations. Once the new
technologies were fully adapted and shown to be financisally viable for
small farmers, the observation units would become demonstration units to be
used as part of the state extension program (para. 2.18). Technical
supervision, training, dissemination of results, coordination with research
programs in other states and review of the annual plan of activities would
be the responsibility of the Center of Agricultural Research for the
Semi-Arid Tropics (CPATSA), which would receive support for these
activities under the Northeast Rural Development I Project.
Rural Extension
2.17      Extension activities would svpport on-going efforts to make small
farms more resistant to drought conditions and improve the Income and
living standards of about 35,000 farm families. The project would finance:
(a) minor construction and equipment for about 19 local offices;
(b) establishment of about 1,850 demonstration plots; (c) by year 4, but
declining thereafter, salaries of about 240 local agricultural extension
agents and 100 social extension workers, about 50 subject-matter
specialists and supervisory personnel, and related administrative staff;
and (d) project-related vehicles, training, and operating costs. Special
technical supervision and methodologlcal advice would be given to
EMATER-RN, the executing agency, by an EMBRATER specialist who would visit
the priority areas at least once a month. Training of extension staff
would be provided by EMBRAPA through CPATSA, EMBRATER, and the on-going
training program of EMATER-RN.
2.18      Some modifications would be Introduced in the structure and
methodology of EMATER-RN.  EMATER-RN administrative regions would be
modified to correspond geographically to project priority areas. Most
supervisory personnel and subject-matter specialists would be located in
the regional offices, but would travel about 50Z of the time to supervise
and assist local extension agents. Each agricultural extensionist would be



- 14 -
trained to provide, on a fixed schedule, agronomic advice to about six to
eight groups of about 20-25 farmers, organized around contact farmers and
demonstration units. Short courses for farmers, field days, and excursions
would also be carried out. The average extension coverage ratio would be
initially high, about one agricultural extensionist per 150 farmers (year
four). The high ratio is due to more intensive coverage in irrigated and
horticultural areas, the distance and dispersed nature of some communities,
and additional responsibilities related to research observation units,
social forestry, and marketing (paras. 2.16, 2.20 and 2.26). Recent
EMBRATER experience indicates that this type of organization and coverage
can be effective in disseminating new technical recommendations to a much
larger number of indirect beneficiaries, about five times the size of the
direct beneficiary group. After year four, a more extensive coverage,
about one extension agent for 365 farmers, would be adopted once the
extensionists were fully trained and familiar with the proposed
methodology.
2.19      Social extension agents, working in teams with agricultural
extension agents, would work with farm families primarily in the areas of
nutrition, child care, cottage industries, small animal husbandry, home
gardening, and family budgeting. They also would be actively involved in
assisting community support activities (paras. 2.27-2.29). Agricultural
agents would focus on disseminating recommendations developed jointly by
EMBRAPA and EMBRATER for the drought-prone area of the Northeast. These
recommendations, to be adapted to local conditions through the research
observation units, would include: (a) simple yield-improving practices,
such as improved seed varieties, land preparation, spacing, and fertilizer
use where water would not be a constraint; (b) diversification into more
drought-resistant crops such as sorghum; and (c) improved livestock
management and increased production of sheep, goats, and honey. In
irrigated areas, recommendations would focus on adequate water and soil
management, varietal selection of fruits and vegetables, fertilizer use,
pest control, and post-harvest handling and storage techniques.
2.20      Agricultural extension agents would also be responsible for
implementing project social forestry activities, aimed at increasing
supplies of fuelwood, fruit, fodder, and small industrial wood through the
establishment of individual and communal plantations. EMATER-RN agents
would identify and assist interested groups and individual farmers, who
would provide the labor for the establishment and maintenance of small
nurseries at the community level. Farmers would then receive seedlings to
pla,it on their lands with continued advice from EMATER-RN on fertilizer
application, weeding, and intercropping.
Rural Investment Credit
2.21      The project would finance mediumr- and long-term credit for
on-farm investments by project beneficiaries. Funds would be channelled
through the three official banks operating in rural areas: the BB, BNB, and
BDRN. All on-farm investments would be eligible for financing except
sugarcane plantations, automobiles, and irrigation schemes larger than
4 ha. Approximately 14,250 farmers, or about 40% of direct beneficiaries,
are expected to receive investment credit during the project implementation



- 15 -
period.  A greater number would receive short-term production credit, to be
financed by the Government through its seasonal credit program.
2.22      The Central Bank would rediscount the sub-loans provided by the
participating banks which would obtain a 4Z spread. Credit norms would he
those specified In the Rural Credit Manual issued by the Central Bank.
Extension agents would assist farmers In formulating investment plans.
Procedures for obtaining credit have been simplified over the past few
years, with reduced guarantees and standardized practlces. In addition,
training seminars would be provided to bank managers and their staff to
encourage small farmer lending and group lending, where possible.
Financing would cover up to 100% of Investment costs, with a maximim
repayment period of 12 years and a maximum grace period of 6 years. No
single farmer's total credit llabilities would be allowed to exceed 1000
ORTNS (about US$8,000).3/ Cooperatives also would be eligible for
investment credit If 70% of their members were small farmers who would
directly benefit from the Investment. Wuring negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that these criteria would be applied.
2.23      The phasing out of rural credit subsidies has long been an Issue
In the Bank's dialogue with the Government. A schedule for achieving full
monetary correction for the majority of loans was agreed upon In February
1983, as part of the discussions for the Agricultutral Credit and Export
Development Project (Loar. 2348-BR). That schedule has been adhered to In
all areas and even advanced In the Center-South of Brazil. For the
Northeast, subject to some exception as a disadvantaged area and because of
the prolonged drought, it was agreed that phasing out of subsidies would
resume at the start of the first planting season following the first
post-drought harvest. Accordingly, interest rates, now at a drought
emergency nominal rate of 35%, would be raised by July 1985 to 85% of
monetary correction plus 3% interest, and would be maintained In accordance
with the schedule previously agreed upon with the Bank. Although this
reduction In credit subsidies could limit small farmer credit demand, at
least temporarily, It Is expected that Increased credit availability would
have the net effect of increasing credit use among project farmers.
2.24      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances  that:
(a) credit terms and conditions would be those agreed upon under Loan
2348-BR; (b) any credit bibsldies would be financed through a specific
allocation In the federal fiscal budget; (c) each of the participating
banks would provide monthly Information to SUDENE and the SCU on project
credit availability, demand, and lending per bank agency serving the
priority areas; and (d) It would place a monthly operational priority on
allocating short-term production credit In adequate amounts to bank
agencies serving project priority areas.
3/ Readjusted Obligations of the National Treasury (ORTNS) have been the
primary vehicle for long-term government borrowing and the principal
public debt Instrument In recent years.



- 16 -
Marketing
2.25      Project marketing activities would increase small farmers'
marketing knowledge and options and improve their competitive position.
The project would finance: (a) training courses in post-harvest handling,
storage, and marketing for extension agents, local marketing agents,
cooperative staff, project coordination personnel, and farmers; (b) a
marketing information and commercial orientation service to provide farmers
with simple, timely advice on local and regional prices, consumer varietal
preferences, and storage, transport and selling options; {c) infrastruc-
tural and organizational improvements for about nine municipal markets and
fairs; and (d) expansion of the Rede Somar, a food wholesaling service for
private retailers, including the construction or expansion of three to six
rural service centers and related investment costs. A regional marketing
study, to be executed during the first project year under the Northeast
Rural Development I Project, would review the efficacy of public sector
marketing interventions and would assist in the planning of complementary
activities, if necessary.
2.26      Training activities would be implemented by COBAL through its
training division, which would design and implement courses for project
extension and coordination staff and marketing agents. Extension staff
would subsequently provide training for farmers and local cooperative
staff. CEASA-RN, through direct contact and mass communication methods,
would provide marketing information and commercial orientation to small
farmers, in addition to the routine price information recording it now
carries out. Municipalities would be responsible for market improvements
and would provide any additional land required. All operating and
maintenance costs, to be recovered through vendor charges, would continue
to be the municipalities' responsibility. COBAL would provide technical
assistance in the design and implementation of the improvements,
particularly those of an organizational nature. Expansion of the Rede
Somar rural network would be implemented by COBAL, in accordance with
procedures developed under the Piaui Rural Development Project (Loan
2015-BR). During negotiations, the State provided assurances that prior to
initiation of any market improvements, a written agreement would be signed
between the SCU and the municipality, outlining respective obligations and
responsibilities, and detailed plans would be sent to SUDENE for approval,
with a copy of SUDENE's writtee approval forwarded to the Bank.
Support to Small Rural Communities
2.27      Community support activities, along with project extension
efforts (paras. 2.17-2.19), would encourage small farmers to organize in
groups and facilitate their participation in the development process. At
the same time, communities would benefit from local sub-projects which
would provide needed infrastructure and additional employment
opportunities. The project would finance: (a) a community development fund



- 17 -
of about US$11.8 million to provide grants for local sub-projects;
(b) about 25 local community development (CD) agents, 5 regional
supervisors and 5 senior advisers; and (c) related training,
vehicles, equipment, and operating costs. The State Secretariat for
Government Affairs (SPAG) would be main implementing agency; the SCU would
administer the CD fund.
2.28      The identification, planning, and implementation of comainity
sub-projects woild be carried out by farmers' groups, associations,
syndicates, and cooperatives. Local CD agents, each responsible for two to
three municipalities, would disseminate information to communities
regarding the fund. Project staff from other state agencies would be
called upon to provide technical back-up. Written group proposals would be
submitted to a community or municipal council (MC) comprised of elected
village and municipal officials. Each proposal would contain an
explanation of objectives, benefits expected, method of implementation,
detailed costs and group cost-sharing, either in cash or in kind. The
local CD agent, the regional CD supervisor, and the regional project
administrator (para. 2.30) would also participate in the monthly MC
meetings.
2.29      The MC would approve and assign priorities to sub-projects which
could: (a) be wholly managed and implemented by the group, with some
technical assistance, If necessary; (b) be self-sustaining and benefit the
whole group; and (c) not be financed by other project components or
government programs. Yearly limits on fund expenditures for each of the
priority areas have been set. In addition, three categories of eligible
sub-projects and their respective participation in the fund have been
established: up to 15% for group training activities, such as training in
legal aspects, accounting, and operation and maintenance of project-
financed investments, and legal assistance to groups on land-related
matters; not less than 60% for economic sub-projects, such as small village
handicraft enterprises, tree nurseries, and fish ponds; and up to 25% for
communal infrastructure projects, such as small storage units and laundry
facilities. Once sub-projects were approved by the MC, they would be
forwarded to a regional committee consisting of the regional project
administrator, the regional CD supervisor, and specialists from SPAG and
the SCU. The committee would only reverse MC recommendations if sub-
projects did not conform to the guidelines. If regional annual funding
limits had been reached, funding of the sub-project would be postponed
until the next fiscal year. For approved sub-projects, a written agreement
would be prepared for signature by the association or group. Payments
would be made in installments, with implementation progress supervised by
local and regional CD staff. In the case of legally registered entities,
payment would be made directly to a designated bank account in the entity's
name.  In the case of an unregistered group, the written agreement would be
signed by the municipaitty on behalf of the group, with funds channelled
through the municipality. During negotiationi", the State provided
assuranceg that: (a) the CD fund would be establit;hed and maintained under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) no funds would be
released prior to the signing of the written agreement between the SCU and
the group or municipality (Annex 3).



- 18 -
State Project Administration
2.30      The CEPA-RN has been designated as the SCU to administer project
activities. The SCU is responsible for coordinating, monitoring and
evaluating all federally funded rural special programs within the state and
for fully integrating the activities and administration of these programs
under the project. In order to perform its role as the SCU, the CEPA-RWN
would be restructured. It would consist of a president with a small
advisory staff; a Directorate of Planning for planning, studies, and
evaluation; a Directorate of Operations, comprised of a central technical
support unit with subject-matter specialists, and five regional
administration offices for project supervision, monitoring, and local
coordination; and a Directorate of Administration for administrative
matters, personnel, and financial control. Terms of reference and
qualifications of key staff have been reviewed and are satisfactory. The
project would finance, by year four, but declining thereafter, salaries of
about 50 higher-level staff, of which about 30 would be located outside of
Natal, and related support staff. It would also finance construction of a
central office, equipment, vehicles, consultant fees for evaluation and
training, and other SCU operating costs for project coordination,
monitoring and evaluation. During negotiations,the State provided
assurances that the SCU would be staffed and maintained under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 4).
Land Tenure Improvement
2.31      Increased access to land of sufficient quantity and quality and
secure tenure for small farmers would be essentia'l for sustained rural
development in the State of Rio Grande do Norte. Land tenure activities in
the Rio Grande do Norte priority areas would be financed under the proposed
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project to be presented to the
Executive Directors shortly. Both projects are considered by the
Government to be part of the Northeast Rural Development Program,
activities have been planned jointly, and coordination mechanisms have been
established at the regional and state levels. Increased secure access to
land would increase the expected impact and benefits of the proposed
project. Accordingly, during negotiations, the State and Federal
Governments provided assurances that: (a) at least 25,000 ha in the
priority areas would be available for redistribution to project
beneficiaries by March 31, 1986; and (b) an additional 75,000 ha in the
priority areas would be available for redistribution to project
beneficiaries by March 31, 1988.
2.32      The lands would be identified as part of the surveying and
cadastral activities financed by the Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project, and subsequently acquired through purchase or
expropriation by the Government. The size of the farm units to be
redistributed would vary, depending on the agricultural and economic
potential of the land acquired and the type of farming system to be
developed. Targets based on need, the estimated availability of suitable
lands, and expected institutional capabilities were established during the
preparation of the land project. Procedures and criteria for land



- 19 -
acquisition, allotment, and beneficiary selection were also established.
The Government has provided appropriate assurances on these matters during
negotiations of the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project.
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost
3.01      Total project costs over the projected eight-year investment
period (beginning in April 1985) are estimated at US$136.2 million
(February 1985), including a foreign exchange cost of US$20.8 millian, or
about 15%, and taxes of about US$6.9 million. Physical and price
contingencies are equivalent to 2% and 30% of baseline costs,
respectively. Physical contingencies were added to baseline costs at 15%
for irrigation and water supply construction, 1O% for other construction,
and 5% for equipment, furniture, vehicles, vehicle operation and
maintenance, and training. Price contingencies were estimated in US dollar
terms, based on international inflation rates estimated at 8.0% for 1985;
9.0% for 1986, 1987, and 1988; 8.0% for 1989; and 6.0% thereafter. It was
assumed that periodic local currency devaluations, estimated on a
purchasing power-parity basis, would compensate for differences between
projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates. Project costs are
summarized in Table 3.1, and annual phasing of investments is shown in
Annex 5.
B. Financing
3.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$61.4 million to the Federative
Republic of Brazil would finance 50% of total project costs net of taxes
and excluding the costs associated with the Serido dam, for which the
Government has requested reserve procurement. Bank financing would cover
the total foreign exchange component, plus about US$40.6 million equivalent
of local costs. The loan would be for 15 years, including 3 years of
grace. The balance of financing would be provided by the Federal
Government through earmarked allocations for the Northeast Rural
Development Program from PROTERRA (Land Redistribution and Agroindustrial
Modernization Program and FINSOCIAL (Social Investment Fund). In addition,
the Government would finance short-term seasonal credit (about US$5.0
million), not included in project costs, for project beneficiaries.
3.03      To ensure timely and effective project implementation, various
start-up activities, including those related to staffing, training,
irrigation studies, and employment of consultants, have already been, or
would be, initiated during the last quarter of 1984 and the first quarter
of 1985. Retroactive financing of up to US$2.5 million equivalent is
proposed to help cover eligible start-up expenditures, excluding
agricultural investment credit, made after July 18, 1984, but before loan
signature.



- 20 -
Table 3.1: Total Project Costs
(US$ million)
z        Z Total
Foreign    Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange       Cost
kter Resource Development        13.5      4.9    18.4      27          18
Agricultural Research              6.6     0.8      7.4     11            7
Rural Extension                   27.0     1.9    28.9       b           28
Rural Investment Czedit           20.2     3.6    23.8      15           23
Marketing                          3.2     0.8      4.0     20            4
Support to Small Rural
Communities                     7.6      2.8    10.4      27           10
State Project Administration       9.4     0.7    10.1       7           10
Total Baseline Costs              87.5    15.5   103.0      15          100
Physical Contingencies           1.7     0.7      2.4     29            2
Price Contingencies            26.2      4.6    30.8      15           30
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              115.4    20.8   136.2      15          132
C. Procurement
3.04      Civil Ibrks, Goods and Consultancies.  Most civil works (about
US$27.4 million) would be executed by contracts awarded according to local
competitive bidding procedures. Some US$6.6 million under reserve
procuremenr for construction of the Serido dam would not be eligible for
Bank financing. For the other works, local competitive bidding procedures
have been reviewed and are acceptable to the Bank. Brazil has a
competitive local construction industry Which is capable of carrying out
project works. Since the individual construction works are relatively
small and quite dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected to be
interested, but would not be excluded from bidding. In the case of some



- 21 -
small community development civil works, the beneficiaries would carry out
the works under written agreements with the SCU (paras. 2.27-2.29). Also,
a portion of works (about US$0.2 million) related to well-drilling for
community water supply, would be carried out by force account. Private
contractors in Rio Grande do Norte do not have the necessary equipment to
drill in crystaline formations which prevail in the priority areas. CDM
possesses both the experience and equipment to perform this task.  The
miscellaneous equipment, materials and vehicles required by the project,
totalling some US$9.8 million, are almost all locally produced and readily
available. Such items, which would be purchased by the several executing
agencies in various locations over the project implementation period, would
be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures which
have been reviewed and are acceptable. Consultancy services for technical
assistance and studies would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines
(Table 3.2).
Table 3.2: Procurement Arrangements
(USM million)
Type of Project                                   Procurement Method
Expenditure                                  LCB   Other    N.A.  Total
Civil Wbrks                                    27.4    0.2           27.6
(10.5)  (0.1)         (10.6)
Equipment, Vehicles and Furniture               9.8                   9.8
(4.8)                 (4.8)
Technical Assistance. Training                          5.5           5.5
and Studies                                        (2.7)          (2.7)
Rural Investment Credit                                       31.8   31.8
(16.6) (16.6)
Salaries and Allowances                                       45.5   45.5
(19.8) (19.8)
Other Operating Expenses                                      16.0   16.0
(6.9)  (6.9)
TOTAL                               37.2    5.7   93.3    136.2
(15.3)  (2.8) (43.3)   (61.4)
Note:   Figures in parentheses are the estimated respective amounts
financed by the Bank.



- 22 -
3.05      Contract Review.  All civil works contracts related to irrigation
sub-projects and all other civil works of US$200,000 and above would be
subject to prior Bank review of procurement documentation. Goods packages
of US$50,000 and above would also be subject to prior review. With these
thresholds, prior Bank review would involve about 50 contracts and cover
about 60% and 20% of the value of civil works and goods, respectively,
which is reasonable in light of the Government's extensive procurement
experience and the expected workload for Bank staff. Random checking of
smaller contracts would be carried out during supervision. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that the described
procurement procedures would be followed.
D. Disbursements
3.06      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed at a uniform
rate of 47% against all project expenditures until an aggregate amount of
US$2.2 for research and US$9.1 for extension had been disbursed.
Thereafter, disbursement rates for research and extension, which include a
high percentage of recurrent costs, would progressively decline by 5% each
year. All other categories would be adjusted to result in an overall rate
of 50% financing of total expenditures excluding taxes over the project
implementation period. Taking into account the disbursement profile for
previous agricultural projects in Brazil and past disbursement delays in
Northeast rural development projects, a disbursement schedule has been
estimated for an eight-year period, with a project completion date of
December 31, 1992, and a Closing Date of the Loan on June 30, 1993
(Annex 6).
3.07      Disbursements for all operating expenses and investment and
technical assistance expenses under US$50,000 would be made under
statements of expenditure initiated by the various executing agencies and
certified by the SCU. Supporting documentation would not be submitted to
the Bank, but would be made available for inspection during project
supervision missions. Standard documentation for civil works, vehicles,
equipment, and technical assistance with contract values exceeding
US$50,000 would be submitted to the Bank. In order to reduce Government
prefinancing requirements, a Special Account would be opened in the Central
Bank, with an initial deposit of up to US$3.4 million. The Government may
request the Bank to make advance payments of dollars from the loan account
into this Special Account. Withdrawals in cruzeiros from the Special
Account, supported by statements of expenditure and other required
documentation, would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the
date of the expenditure. The Central Bank would send the corresponding
statements to the Bank, which would then replenish the Special Account.



- 23 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Organization and Management
Federal and Regional Levels
4.01      An Intermdnisterial Commission (IC), chaired by the
Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior, and comprised of
representatives from the Ministries of Agriculture, Planning, Land,
Finance, and Interior and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has overall policy
and planning responsibility for the Northeast Rural Development Program.
This includes deciding upon changes in program policy, strategy, or
composition; establishing procedures for Improved interministerial
cooperation; proposing annual funding levels and budgets for the program;
and supervising SUDENE's work as regional program coordinator. The
Ministry of Interior, as lead ministry, would establish the agenda for
regular monthly meetings and ensure that IC decisions were carried out.
4.02      SUDENE, and more specifically, the Adjunct Superintendency for
Rural Development (SDR), Is the regional coordinator of the Northeast Rural
Development Program, Including the proposed project. The SDR would:
(a) assist the State In multi-year and annual rural development planning
and ensure consistency with regional guidelines; (b) provide technical
Implementation assistance to the State; (c) supervlse Implementation of the
State Rural Development Plan; (d) Implement regioun-wide studies and
training programs; (e) consolJdate monitoring Information from Rio Grande
do Norte and other Northeast States; (f) organize Impact evaluation
activities; and (g) provide advice to the IC regarding annual policy and
funding decisions.  The SDR would receive pollcy backing for Its work
through a regional Rural Development Council (RDC) linked to SUDENE's
Deliberative Council, which includes all of the Northeast governors. The
RDC would be comprised of the Superintendent of SUDENE, senior management
of the SDR, representatives of the Involved federal ministries and banks
and the Northeast state secretaries responsible for program coordination In
their respective states. Monthly meetings would provide a forum for prior
discussion of issues to be submitted for decision to the IC and
Deliberative Council and would provide state and federal guidance to SDR
management In the establishment of regional operating priorities, Including
annual funding allocations per state.
State and Local Levels
4.03      At the state level, a State Rural Development Council (SRDC),
chaired by the Governor and includlng the State Secretaries of Planning,
Agriculture, Government Affairs and Public Works and the President of the
CEPA-RN, would meet on a quarterly basis to decide policy Issues and
provide overall guidance for state rural development activities. Two



- 24 -
sub-committees for agricultural development and land would function within
the SRDC. Chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture and including the
presidents of the relevant executing agencies, each sub-committee would
ensure that project issues were regularly discussed and decided upon
jointly by the executing agencies and that project activities were fully
compatible with the overall work program of each of the participating
agencies.
4.04      The SCU, located within the CEPA-RN, would be the operational
coordinator of project activities within the state (para. 2.30). The
CEPA-RN, linked to the Secretariat of Agriculture, is an autonomous
foundation with its own budget, salary structure and administrative and
personnel procedures. The SCU would be responsible for: (a) consolidating
annual operating plans drafted by the executing agencies; (b) supervising
executing agency performance and advising the RDC on institutional or
technical difficulties; (c) monitoring physical and financial progress and
preparing monitoring reports and reimbursement requests; (d) carrying out
on-going evaluation of project activities; (e) implementing training
courses on project objectives and strategy and specific implementation
problems; and (f) administering the project community development fund
(paras. 2.27-2.29). In order to decentralize decision-making and increase
SCU involvement in field execution, the SCU would be structured into a
central office and five regional field offices. Regional field staff would
supervise daily implementation progress at the local level and provide
feedback to the SCU central unit. Regional administrators would be
instrumental in promoting Intermunicipal Councils, to be comprised of
municipal representatives and local executing agency staff. These councils
would provide a regular forum for beneficiary participation in planning and
implementation. The Director of Operations within the SCU would also chair
monthly meetings of a State Technical Commission (STC), comprised of SCU
senior staff and regional administrators, and the technicians responsible
for project activities within each executing agency. The STC would discuss
specific operational problems in implementation and decide on appropriate
measures to be taken by the executing agencies and monitored by the SCU.
(Chart 1).
Unification of Rural Special Programs
4.05      Improved efficiency in rural development administration and the
unification of Northeast rural special programs are central elements in
regional progra-n strategy. As a condition of loan effectiveness, the
Government would provide the Bank with evidence that the planning,
budgeting, staffing, and administration of all current regional rural
special programs had been unified, and consolidated within the SUDENE SDR
at the regional level and within the SCU at the state level. Since
unification of prograsq would eliminate administrative duplication and
decrease staffing needs within the SDR as compared to present levels, as
part of this condition of effectiveness, the Government would provide
evidence to the Bank that the quantity of SDR staff had been reduced to the
levels agreed upon under the Northeast Rural Development I Project.



- 25 -
B. Annual Planning and Budgeting
4.06      Review, refinement, and adjustment of the targets and costs
established initially at appraisal would be carried out through an annual
planning and budgeting process. By about July of each year, the process
would begin with the state providing preliminary estimates of funding
requirements for the next project fiscal year (beginning April 1) to the
SDR.  The SDR would consolidate preliminary estimates from all the states
for discussions in the RDC and IC at the regional and federal levels. once
the Federal Governmeat had established overall funding availability for the
Northeast Rural Development Program for the next year, allocations per
state would be established by the SDR in consultation with the RDC, and
communicated formally to the state. Subsequently, each executing agency,
under guidance from the SCU, would prepare a detailed annual operating
plan, with proposed activities and expenditures. The SCU then would
consolidate the plans, ensure internal consistency and forward them to the
SRDC for approval. The scate operating plan would then be sent to the SDR
for review and approval. The SDR would consolidate all of the state plans
into a regional operating plan, which would be presented to the IC. This
plan would serve as the basis for the portaria (administrative regulation)
signed by the ministers, legally establishing budget allocations for each
state. Funds would then be released on a monthly basis in accordance with
the funding procedures to be established for the Northeast Rural
Development Program. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances to that effect. Receipt by the Bank of the signed portaria
legally establishing the funding procedures for the program would be a
condition of effectiveness. During negotiations for the Northeast Rural
Development I Project, the Government also provided assurances that the
final Rio Grande do Norte operating plan, along with the other state plans,
would be sent to the Bank no later than April 1 of each year.
C. Operating Agreements
4.07      Consistent with a commonly used system in Brazil, a series of
written agreements (convenios) among project coordinating and executing
agencies would be entered into. These convenios include several types:
(a) convenios between the SCU and federal agencies; (b) convenios among
executing agencies, with the participation of the SCU, when more than one
agency is involved in executing a project activity (e.g., irrigation); and
(c) convenlos between the SCU or an executing agency and involved
municipalities or groups prior to the construction of civil works or
initiation of a community sub-project. During negotiatJons, the State and
Federal Governments provided assurances that all necessary convenios would
be entered into no later than six months after loan signature. These
convenios would outline the respective obligations and responsibilities of
each party, including where applicable, execution guidelines and targets,
reporting requirements, procedures for inter-agency collaboration and
funding conditions linked to performance criteria (Annex 7).
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.08      New regional monitcring and evaluation proposals have been
prepared and reviewed by the Bank for the Northeast Rural Development
Program. The monitoring proposal is based on the need to simplify
reporting requirements at all levels and to provide accurate and timely



- 26 -
information for project management and annual planning. Under the new
system, the SCU would receive monthly reports on key physical and financial
indicators from the executing agencies. These indicators have been
selected for the most part among information already routinely collected by
the executing agencies. SCU regional administrators would also prepare
monthly renorts on problems in local implementation. Quarterly, the SCU
would produce a consolidated monitoring summary covering both quantitative
aspects and implementation problems and solutions. The summary would be
submitted to the SDR and the Bank. Every six months, the SDR would provide
to the Federal Government and the Bank a monitoring summary for the program
as a whole, including summaries of implementation progress for each state
and its own activities during the period. It is expected that these
six-month summaries would provide the type of information found in Bank
supervision reports. During negotiations, the State provided assurances
that quarterly Rio Crande do Norte monitoring reports would be sent to the
Bank no later than three months after the end of the respective fiscal
quarter (Annex 8).
4.09      Evaluation studies would be conducted at both the regional and
state levels to provide program and project management with the necessary
information to plan activities and to adjust, when necessary, rural
development policies and strategies. State evaluation activities under the
proposed project would be comprised of: (a) on-going evaluation and special
studies; (b) mid-term evaluation; and (c) post-project evaluation.
On-going evaluation would consist of short-term studies of specific
activities and implementation problems, such as an annual review of
community development activities. Annual crop surveys to measure
production and productivity levels among a small number of beneficiary and
non-beneficiary farmers would also be part of on-going evaluation. These
small surveys would complement production information to be routinely
provided by the extension service. Terms of reference for the state
studies would be reviewed and approved by the SDR. Mid-term and
post-project evaluation studies would be carried out partly by the CEPA-RN,
and partly by independent consulting firms or academic institutions.
During negotiations, the State provided assurances that terms of reference
for the mid-term and post-project evaluations would be satisfactory to the
Bank (Annex 4).
E. Accounts and Auditing
4.10      Each of the participating agencies would maintain a separate
account of its project expenditures, to be audited annually by the
Secretariat of Internal Control with SEPLAN-PR, according to standard
Government practice. Audit procedures have recently been reviewed by the
Bank, and discussions are underway concerning possible improvements.
Copies of the audit report would be provided to the Bank within six months
following the close of the project's fiscal year. The audit report would
convey the auditor's opinion on the adequacy of procedures used for the
preparation and verification of statements of expenditures and their
accuracy, eligibility for financing in accordance with compliance with
legal agreements, and the standard of record-keeping and internal
controls. The Special Account would be audited by independent auditors



- 27 -
satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations, the State and Federal
Governments provided assurances on these matters.
V. PRODUCTION, DEMAND, AND MARKETING
A. Production
5.01      At full development (year 11), the annual value of incremental
production generated by the project is estimated at US$29.1 million (in
June 1984 farm-gate prices), including US$10.8 million for basic food crops
(beans, maize, manioc and rice), US$8.5 million for other crops, and US$9.3
million for livestock products (Annex 9).
5.02      Expected crop production increases would be achieved through a
combination of greater yields, expanded production areas, and some changes
in cropping patterns. Yield increases for the major crops, brought about
through improved soil management and cultivation practices, have been
estimated at less than 35% above current yields. Exceptions are rice and
bananas where improved irrigation and drainage would significantly increase
yields. Projected yield increases would be brought about mainly by
improved weed control and plant protection measures, fertilizer application
in irrigated areas, the use of improved seed varieties, and more timely
field operations through the use of animal traction. The increased use of
animal traction would also result in sizeable increases in the area devoted
to cotton, beans, sorghum, and manioc. Grain sorghum would partially
replace maize in the drier areas, thereby improving farmers' ability to
withstand drought. There would also be substantial increases in the
planting of drought-resistant pasture and forage crops (algaroba and buffel
grass), with subsequent increases in livestock production. Little or no
area changes are expected for other crops, although there would be some
double cropping on newly irrigated lands (para. 6.02).
B. Demand and Marketing
5.03      Incremental production resulting from project activities would
not be subject to demand constraints. Currently, the majority of food sold
in Natal and Mossoro, the state's two largest cities, is imported from
outside the state. Expected increases in forage would mainly serve to feed
livestock in the priority areas. Resulting increases in meat and milk
production would be readily absorbed in urban markets within the state.
Maize has a ready market for consumption and animal feed. Production
increases in beans and manioc flour would be absorbed locally and exported
to neighboring deficit states. A growing industrial market for m-nioc,
both in animal feed and energv production, is also developing. Demand for
sorghum is simil-arly developing; on-farn use as a fodder crop has expanded
in recent years. The extension service is also promoting certain varieties
of sorghum as a substitute for wheat flour in rural diets. Cotton
production would be marketed through existing channels for processing in
the state, which has sufficient capacity. Natal's textile industry has a
high demand for qualiLy cotton.



- 28 -
5.04      Fruits and vegetables produced under the project would be
channelled to Natal, Mossoro, and other medium-sized cities in the state.
Fruits such as oranges, mangos, and coconuts have substantial markets for
direct consumption and for agroindustrial use in the production of juices,
juice concentrates and vegetable oils, in the case of coconuts. Banana
production would be consumed locally and processed into confectionery items
for sale in national markets.
5.05      While no quantitative demand constraints are expected, improved
product quality and varietal selection would be important in ensuring
market absorption for incremental production at favorable producer prices.
Project investments in research and extension, training in post-harvest
techniques and marketing, improvements in municipal markets, and the
marketing information and commercial orientation service should strengthen
small farmers' competitive position and in some cases, improve their share
in final demand prices. However, incremental project production is not
expected to have an effect upon the consumer price structure (paras.
2.25 and 2.26).
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Illustrative Farm Models
6.01      The effects of the project on agricultural production and
profitability are illustrated by four rainfed and two irrigated/rainfed
farm models. The indicative models reflect different ecological zones,
cropping patterns, lvestock activities, and, in the case of the irrigated
models, different investment levels. One of the irrigated models is
representative of a three-family farm in a public irrigation sub-project;
the other represents three individual family farms with investments in
private irrigation. Characteristics of the farm models are summarized in
Table 6.1, and additional details are provided in Annex 10 and the
Supplementary Staff Working Papers (Annex 13).
6.02      Estimated financial rates of return for the models range from
about 17% to 70Z. The relatively high rates of return in some cases are
mainly a reflection of the low level of current incomes and the relatively
low cost and rapid benefits of investment packages and resulting technology
improvements (para. 5.02). Although cropping patterns are not expected to
change dramatically, farmers, particularly those benefitting from
irrigation, would introduce new and more profitable cash crops. The
introduction of crops better able to resist drought (e.g., short-cycle
varieties and grain sorghum), and increased livestock production, along
with appropriate forage crops, on many of the farms would contribute to
increased income and income stability. Goat production, in particular,
would improve farmers' ability to survive drought in the drier areas.
Increased labor demand resulting from project activities would easily be
met through family labor. During peak periods, hired labor, which is
readily available, would be employed on some farms, particularly in
irrigated areas.



- 29 -
B. Effects of Drougbt
6.03      Rio Grande do Norte was the state most severely affected by the
recent flve-year drought in the Northeast. Over 80% of project farms are
located in regions vulnerable to recurring droughts. To eetiute the
effects of a saevere and prolonged drought on production and profitability
at the farm level, the farm models most representative of farms in the
semi-arid area (Models 1, 3, and 4) were reproduced simulating two separate
drought situations. The first assumed a severe drought during the first
two years of project implementation. The second assumed a similar drought
in years 8, 9 and 10. In Models 1 and 3, cotton, maize and bean yields
would decline in drought years to 40% of those estimated without the
drought; manioc would decline to 60Z, grain sorghum to 752, and livestock
production to 80X. In Model 4, most offected by drought, yields of cotton,
maize and beans would decline to 20X of without drought yields, with manioc
declining to 60Z, grain sorghum to 50Z, and livestock production to 70Z.
In addition, it was assumed that In the first drought situation, Model 4
farms would be affected by drought for three years, one year longer than
Models I and 3. For all models, livestock and other initial investments
would have been made before the drought became apparent.
TmW 6.1: awQifrucof TzE  ±tive Fau M1bs
1k FPziy Fam Umdl c/
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lth                                        NM
Makl asuihsjgz^   e           Fahm                     Qiie                 At Rl      (w   
?It.  CO Fam   (hs)    TIe        Lhixk 1nii
1     5,6(0   15   hlnfud           t     Alt Ad ti-AK1d          MD        209D          69
2       710  ID   Mdmim            SAkn   Hbdd HUli    S*4hui    1,D4       ,121 
3      V1D   12  PBdnfd            Dksty  As I r      Smdehd    2B 53       227           68
4     4610 Z    BlIe          f    isl sd    9-Aid                so        2,32          3
5/a   2,2ZD  45          rbiiy  Vadas                 Szi-Add    1,06       5,670         59
RLveat1de)u
6/b    2D    I)                          -  S         Sbn-hdd to
a/ Mxiblmond im  m fm]y wanus. U& ml hs 3h cf frr8^td asd 42b cf md &Wze JiniL 2,)ZD r mwg  h  stim  ted
airr Cf frim fad   .
b/ (milzg cE 3.2 bw Cf drtaI wu 6.8 cf ln6m lImL Fia =xad rpi    1 thes f, or 6) mu   - 2,axX) f.
e/ M foz&g.



- 30 -
6.04      The results of the simulation exercise are summarized In
Table 6.2:
Table 6.2: Annual Net Family Farm Benefits 1/and Financial Rates of Return
as Affected by Severe Drought
Without Drought      Durcng Drought    During Drought
(at Full Develop.)   In Years 1-2-3    in Years 8-9-10
Farm Model           Benefits       FRR   Benefits   FRR    Benefits    FRR
and Category           USS                   US$      Z       US$         x
Model 1:
Non-Project Farmers      699                  157                157
Project Farmers        2,060        69       (915)    60       1,257      70
Model 3:
Non-Project Farmers      538                  148                110
Project Farmers        2,278        68       (501)    53         713      65
Model 4:
Non-Project Farmers      870                   64                 44
Project Farmers        2,323        38       (585)    33         577      34
1/  Before financing and excluding off-farm income sources.
6.05      Table 6.2 shows the Impact that project investments, particularly
in livestock production and forage crops, could have on increasing farmers'
ability to withstand drought conditions in the mediumr- and long-term. If
the drought were to occur early in project implementation, both project and
non-project farm families would require governmental assistance or outside
income in order to survive. The larger net losses for project farms In
this situation reflect the investments already made In livestock and
improved forage crops. At least a proportion of project farmers would
liquidate their investments and either sell or consume their breeding
stock. However, If the drought were to occur later In the project cycle,
project farms would be much better off than non-project ones.  Investments
made earlier In livestock enterprises and the adoption of drought resistant
crops and cropping technJques would greatly increase farm families' ability
to survive a severe drought. While non-project farm families would become
almost totally dependent on outside income sources to survive, project
families would require, at most, only limited additional credit or
supplementary income sources. The greater relative gains made by farmers
participating in the project are reflected in positive financial rates of
return for all the models even under severe drought conditions.



- 31 -
C. Farm Incomes
6.06      The weighted average annual family income of project
beneficiaries at full development is estimated at US$2,410 for rainfed
farmers and US$5,560 for farmers with irrigation (Table 6.1). This
represents an increase of 197% and 132Z, respectively, compared to present
income levels. The estimated increases are largely the reflection of
improved farm production and productivity and a diversified enterprise mix,
thereby improving farm revenues and employment. The difference between
present incomes and projected incomes may be overstated, however, because
current sources of supplemental income, such as off-farm work, have not
been taken into account. Without supplemental income sources, about 75% of
expected beneficiaries are currently well below the relative poverty
level. With the project, it is expected that beneficiaries who fully adopt
project techical recommendations would no longer be required to supplement
their farm incomes to remain above the relative poverty level. However,
the poorest rainfed farm families would most likely continue to seek
supplemental income and employment opportunities, particularly if a drought
were to occur.
D. Fiscal Impact
6.07      The project investment cost per benefiting family would average
about US$2,100. It is not Government policy to obtain full cost recovery
on rural programs for low-income families. Partial direct cost recovery
does exist, particularly for operation and maintenance costs. User charges
and iacreased revenues would be expected to cover recurrent costs related
to public irrigation investments, improvements in municipal markets and
fairs, the wholesale food distribution network, increased fingerling
production, community sub-projects, and beginning in 1987, community water
supply systems. In addition, communities would be expected to pay for part
of community sub-project ±nvestment costs through contributions in labor or
materials. In accordance with Brazilian legislation, partial recovery
(estimated at about 20-30% of investment costs in real terms) of public
irrigation investment would also occur, but would vary from scheme to
scheme depending on beneficiaries' projected incomes. The Government's
phased reduction of agricultural credit subsidies (para. 2.23) would
increase substantially the amount recovered on credit operations.
6.08      The Government would receive increased fiscal revenues from the
incremental production generated under the project.' The value added ICM
tax on some agricultural products would generate an estimated US$7 million
annually at full development. Revenues from the social security tax
(FUNRURAL), levied at 2.5% of the value of marketed production, would
provide a further US$1 million annually at full development. By year 9,
increased annual revenues would more than offset incremental annual
recurrent costs resulting from project activities. This would not be the
case, however, should significant credit subsidies continue or if a severe
drought were to occur. Also, the extent to which incremental tax revenues
would actually be used to finance recurrent costs would depend upon the
type of revenue-sharing arrangements in place between the Federal
Government and the State.



- 32 -
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Rate of Return
7.01      The economic rate of return for the project has been estimated at
19%, as discussed below. Details of the cost and benefit streams used in
the economic analysis are given in Annex 11. Other details of the economic
analysis are available in the Supplementary Staff Working Papers
(Annex 13).
7.02      The cost stream for the economic benefits included four elements:
(a) all of the phased on-farm incremental Investment and operating costs
derived from the farm models; (b) all project costs, except those related
to social forestry, the wholesale food supply system, the fund for
unidentified irrigation studies and sub-projects, the community development
component, and community water supply systems, or 82% of total project
costs; (c) 1OZ of regional administration costs and the proportion of
regional research costs corresponding to the proportion of the state's
rural population within the Northeast's total rural population;±/
(d) recurrent regional and state costs on a declining basis for three years
following the project Investment period; and (e) recurrent state costs at
constant year 11 costs for years 12 to 20.
7.03      The evaluation of incremental benefits included three elements.
First, the estimated phased on-farm Incremental benefits were Included for
those farmers expected to use Investment credit. This included 4,250
farmers with Irrigation and 10,000 dryland farmers, or about 33% of total
dryland farmers. Second, as a proxy for the incremental benefits accruing
to the remaining dryland farmers who would be reached by the extension
service (about 20,750 farmers), Incremental benefits for an equivalent
4,150 farmers (about 20% of the remaining dryland farmers) were added to
the benefit stream. Flnally, an estimate of benefits resulting from
increased inland fish production was included.
7.04      Economic prices for traded goods were derived taking into account
international trading prices, freight, Insurance, processing, and handling
costs. Price trends were projected according to those estimated by the
Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department. The m,dn imported
goods are fertilizer and, ln some years, rice; cotton Is exported. A
border parity price was also derived for mai-ze, which Is brought In from
southern Brazil.  Econondc prices for beans, bananas, sorghum, and manioc
were derived by taking Into account the domestic marketing distortions
relevant to each of the products, as well as a standard conversion factor
of 0.83. The latter was also used for valuing non-traded Inputs and
outputs, including labor (Annex 12).
4/  These activities would be financed under the Northeast Rural
Development I Project.



- 33 -
7.05      To measure the impact of possible changes in the assumptions
underlying the project's stream of costs and benefits, several sensitivity
tests were made. These tests show that project benefits could fall by over
25% or projects costs rise by about 34% before the project's estimated rate
of return fell below the estimated 11% opportunity cost of capital.
7.06      To measure the impact of severe drought on the project's overall
economic rate of return, the farm-level simulation described in paras.
6.03-6.05 was aggregated. While aggregating, it was assumed that the
adoption rate of farmers using new technology after the drought would be
only 50% of that assumed before the drought. If a three-year drought were
to begin in the first year of project implementation, the economic rate of
return would fall to 13%. However, if the drought were to begin in year 8,
the rate of return would only fall to 1%. The relatively small reduction
in the estimated economic rate of return shows an apparent project
resilience to drought.
B. Other Project Benefits
7.07      Not all project benefits are accounted for in the economic rate
of return analysis. Project research and extension activities should
result in production increases for other farmers within the state. The
expansion of agricultural activities would create new on-farm employment
opportunities equivalent to some 13,000 man-years annually at full
development (year 11). This demand, principally for unskilled and
semi-skilled labor, would be met mainly through family labor, although
increases in hired labor in irrigated areas would also occur. Project
extension, water supply, and marketing activities would have a beneficial
health and nutritional impact by improving nutrition education and
increasing the availability of safe drinking supplies and food items
currenity lacking in rural diets. Social extension, social forestry
improved water supply, marketing and community development activities would
bring substantial benefits to rural women and improve the quality of life
for all rural residents. Finally, strengthened public sector planning and
implementation capabilities would be important for future rural development
efforts.
C. Environmental Impact
7.08      Increased awareness of the need to protect and manage the
environment more carefully is growing among farmers because of recent
drought conditions. Various activities to be promoted by the project could
have a beneficial environmental impact. Safer and more efficient pesticide
use would help to protect the natural environment. Improved water and soil
management would preserve soil fertility, reduce erosion, and optimize use
of existing water resources. Improved animal husbandry techniques and
social forestry activities could reverse the tendency among small farmers



- 34 -
to exhaust their limited natural resource base through over-cultivation and
over-grazing. Nonetheless, the environment in the drier project areas is
relatively fragile, and short-term financial considerations could induce
some small farmers to ignor project technical recommendations and to
continue over-cultivation, with the resulting detrimental effect upon the
environment.
D. Project Risks
7.09      Although simpler in design than previous integrated rural
development projects in Northeast Brazil, the proposed project still
depends on a number of institutions and the achievement of considerable
interinstitutional cooperation. Consequently, institutional analysis was
an important part of project preparation. Weaknesses were identified and
measures introduced to improve institutional effectiveness, particularly in
the areas of water resource development and state and local coordination.
In addition, all of the agencies have some experience in working with the
target group through integrated rural development projects. Improved
monitoring, on-going evaluation, increased technical assistance, and
strengthened regional coordination should also help decrease management
risks. More importantly, the project's emphasis on beneficiary
participation and community involvement would increase both the level of
demand on and accountability of the executing agencies, fostering a more
efficient institutional environment.
7.10      The proposed project does not include land tenure, health, and
education activities. All of these activities are essential for sustained,
self-supporting rural development in Rio Grande do Norte and other areas of
the Northeast. Parallel sectoral projects for health and education are
currently under preparation with Bank assistance; a Northeast Region Land
Tenure Improvement Project will be presented to the Executive Directors
shortly. The success of those projects would contribute substantially
toward achieving project objectives of increased incomes, employment, and
standards of living, particularly in the medium- and long-term, and
planning of all the projects has taken place in a coordinated fashion.
Nonetheless, implementation of most of the activities and expected benefits
under the proposed project is not directly dependent on the pace of
implementation of the sectoral projects in the short-term.
7.11      Recurring drought conditions in the State of Rio Grande do Norte
present considerable risks to small farmers and to expected benefits under
the proposed project. A sustained, multi-year drought, similar to the one
in 1978 to 1983, could substantially reduce the project's productive
impact. Decreasing drought-related risks for small farmers has influenced
overall project design, particulaiely through increasing the focus on water
resource development and small farmer technology generation and diffusion.
The project should help increase farmers' capacity to adapt to erratic, and
often adverse, climat'.c conditions.
7.12      Finally, delays and shortfalls in counterpart funding have posed
serious problems for Bank-assisted Northeast rural development projects in
the past. Similar delays and shortfalls under the proposed project could



- 35 -
decrease impact. Considerable attention has been given to this matter
during project preparation. Recent changes in funding channels and
procedures, the merging of the rural special programs and the addition of a
new source of counterpart funding (FINSOCIAL funds) are expected to improve
the funding situation. The focus on a few key production constraints would
concentrate funds on activities which provide direct benefits. In
addition, the regional scope of the Northeast Rural Development Program, of
which the project is a part, and the broad support which the program enjoys
among senior government officials and local leaders, should help to secure
adequate funding. Overall, the risks associated with this project are
acceptable in view of the expected benefits to low-income farm families and
the important institutional-building aspects of the project.
VIII.  SUMMARY OF ASSURANCES PROVIDED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances
that:
(a) for rural credit, the eligibility criteria, terms and conditions,
reporting provisions, and credit priorities would be applied as
outlined in paras. 2.22 and 2.24;
(b) at least 25,000 ha by March 31, 1986, and an additional 75,000
ha by March 31, 1988, would be available for redistribution to
project beneficiaries in the priority areas (para. 2.31);
Cc) funding procedures would follow those established for the
Northeast Rural Development Program (para. 4.06);
(d)  all necessary convenios would be entered into no later than six
months after loan signature (para. 4.07); and project accounts,
including the Special Account, would be maintained and annually
audited according to practices satisfactory to the Bank (para
4.10).
8.02      During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances
that:
(a) for public irrigation schemes, (i) major dams would be subject to
periodic review by a panel of experts, and, for the Serido dam,
the same panel would review final designs and inspect
periodically during construction; and (ii) satisfactory cost
recovery provisions, in accordance with federal legislation,
would be implemented (para. 2.11);
(b) CAERN would apply water charges covering full operation and
maintenance costs by June 30, 1987 (para. 2.14).



- 36 -
(c) prior to Initiation of market improvements, a written agreement
would be signed between the SCU and the municipality; and
detailed plans would be sent to SUDENE for approval, with a copy
of the written approval sent to the Bank (para. 2.26);
(d)  the community development fund would be established and
maintalned under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
and no funds would be releaseld pfror to a written agreement
between SCU and the group or municipality tpara. 2.29);
(e) the SCU would be staffed and maintained tinder conditions
satlsfactory to the Rank (para. 2.30);
(f) at least 25,000 ha by March 31, 1986, and an additional 75,000 ha
by March 31, 1988, would be available for redistribution to
project beneficiaries in the priority areas (para. 2.31);
(g) procurement procedures would be as specified in paras. 3.04 and
3.05;
(h) the State Government and Executing Agencies would enter Into
maintaln all necessary convenios no later than six months after
loan signature, such convenios to contain the provisions
described In para. 4.07;
(1) quarterly monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank no later
than three months after the respective fiscal quarter; and terms
of reference for the mid-term and post-project evaluation studies
would be sent to the Bank for review and approval (paras. 4.08
and 4.09); and
(1) project accounts would he maintained and annually audited
according to practices satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.10).
8.03      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be: (a) receipt of
satisfactory final deslgns and proof of land acquisitlon for the Serido
irrigation sub-project (para. 2.11); (b) receipt of evidence by the Bank
that planning, budgeting, staffing, and administration of all current
regional rural special programs had been unified and consolidated wlthin
the SDR at the regional level and within the SCU at the state level,
Including evidence that the quantity of staff within the SDR had been
reduced to agreed upon levels (para. 4.05); and (c) receipt by the Bank of
the signed portaria legally establishing program funding procedures
(para. 4.06).
8.04      Conditions of disbursement would be: (a) for irrigation
sub-projects, prior to initiatlng construction, receipt of proof of land
acquisition, and approval of feasibility studies, resettlement plalis,
operation and maintenance plans, and complete final designs (para. 2.11);
and (b) for the water resource component, the carrying out of satisfactory
measures for CIDA-RN's strengthenlig (para. 2.11).



- 37 -
8.05      Failure to present satisfactory irrigation sub-projects by
December 31, 1987 would result in cancellation of the loan funds allocated
for this purpose (para. 2.11).
8.06      R1th these assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for a Bank loan of US$61.4 million equivalent with a term of 15
years, including a 3-year grace period.
April 8, 1985



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Evolution of Rio Grande do Norte Agricultural Production
Major Crops 1974 and 1982
Area (ha)            Yield (kg/ha)
Crop                          1974        1982       1974         1982
Cotton (Annual)             122,550      154,090       254         205
Cotton (Perennial)          433,120      293,730        163        101
Maize                       141,000       39,780        438        144
Beans                       162,710      127,760        198        150
Cassava                      56,570       57,690     4,760       9,424
Grain Sorghum                 3,360        7,420      1,095        519
Rice                          6,750        4,450       699         400
Sugarcane (tons)             15,090       50,490        46          56
Banana (tons)                 4,650        3,130         19         20
Cashews 1/                   13,330       51,230    52,650      13,895
Sweet Potatoes                9,570        6,900     6,538       6,928
Sisal                       46,120        34,800     1,280         408
Coconuts                      8,910       15,760     4,490       3,570
Total           1,023,730       847,230
1/ Yields expressed in kg of entire fruit.
SOURCE: SUDENE, Regional Program Preparation Report, Vol. 2; June 1984



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Project Priority Areas and Municipalities
Serido                                      Alto Apodi (Continued)
1.   Caico                                  13.  Rafael Fernandes
2.   Cruzeta                                14.  Riacho da Cruz
3.   Ipueira                                15.  Riacho de Santana
4.   Jardim de Piranhas                     16.  Sao Francisco do Oeste
5.   Jardim do Serido                       17.  Tabuleiro Grande
6.   Ouro Branco                            18.  Vicosa
7.   Santana                                19.  Almino Afonso
8.   Sao Fernando                           20.  Antonio Martins
9.   Sao Joao do Sabugi                     21.  Coronel Joao Pessoa
10.  Sao Jose do Serido                     22.  Dr. Severiano
11.  Serra Negra do Norte                   23.  Frutuoso Gomes
12.  Timbauba dos Batistas                  24.  Joao Dias
13.  Acari                                  25.  Lucrecia
14.  Carnauba dos Dantas                    26.  Luiz Gomes
15.  Currais Novos                          27.  Martins
16.  Equador                                28.  Olho D'Agua dos Borges
17.  Parelhas                               29.  Parana
18.  Sao Tome                               30.  Rafael Godeiro
19.  Augusto Severo                         31.  Sao Miguel
20.  Jucurutu                               32.  Umarizal
21.  Florania                               33.  Tenente Ananias
22.  Sao Vicente
23.  Lagoa Nova                             Acu
24.  Cerro Cora
25.  Santana do Matos                       1.   Acu
2.   Alto de Rodrigues
Alto Apodi                                  3.   Carnaubais
4.   Ipanguacu
1.   Agua Nova                              5.   Parau
2.   Alexandria                             6.   Pendencias
3.   Encanto                                7.   Sao Rafael
4.   Francisco Dantas
5.   Janduis                                Agreste
6.   Jose da Penha
7.   Marcelino Vieira                       1.   Brejinho
8.   Messias Targino                        2.   Januario Cicco
9.   Patu                                   3.   Lagoa D'Anta
10.  Pau dos Ferros                         4.   Lagoa de Pedras
11.  Piloes                                 5.   Lagoa Salgada
12.  Portalegre                             6.   Monte Alegre



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Agreste (Continued)                         Regional Aduinistration Offices
7.   Nova Cruz                              1.   Caico (Serido priority area)
8.   Passa e Fica                           2.   Pau don Ferros (Alto Apodi
9.   Passagem                                    priority area)
10.  Santo Antonio                          3.   Acu (Acu priority area)
11.  Serrinha                               4.   Joao Camara (Agreste and
12.  Vera Cruz                                   Humid Valleys priority
13.  Barcelona                                   areas)
14.  Bento Fernandes                        5.   Nova Cruz (Agreste priority
15.  Caicara do Rio do Vento                     areas)
16. Jardim de Angicos
17. Joao Camara
18. Lagoa de Velhos
19. Poco Branco
20. Riachuelo
21. Rui Barbosa
22. Sao Paulo do Potengi
Humid Valleys
1.   Touros
2.   Pureza
3.  Maxaranguape
4.  Eduardo Games
5.  Nisia Floresta



-41 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Support to Small Rural Communities
A. Background
1.        Rural development experience in Northeast Brazil over the last
ten years has pointed to various difficulties which have slowed project
implementation. A lack of beneficiary involvement and commitment to
project activities, and a failure to tailor project investments,
particularly infrastructure sub-projects, to specific needs and demands of
intended beneficiaries, have been among the difficulties. In some cases,
this has resulted in investments which do not meet development needs
because of a mismatch in such aspects as location, size, or operating
procedures. Also, satisfactory operation and maintenance of investments
have been continuing problems. Although active beneficiary participation
is a frequently mentioned strategy in Bank-financed Northeast rural
development projects, few concrete measures have been adopted to ensure
local participation in either project planning or implementation.
2.        Althougb not a part of previous rural development projects
supported by the Bank, community organization and community development
(CD) activities which foster local involvement are not entirely new in
Northeast Brazil. Localized programs, related to childcare, health,
nutrition, adult literacy, non-farm small enterprises, and agricultural
development have been implemented by state and non-governmental
organizations. At the federal level, a CD unit within the Ministry of
Interior has, for several years, carried out training of local leaders in
farmers' associations, cooperatives and syndicates. Some Northeast states,
including Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Norte, have sponsored a variety of
community development programs, particularly in low-income, urban areas.
B. Objectives, Strategy and Brief Description
3.        The broad objectives of community support activities would be to
increase the level and scope of economic activity in rural areas and create
new employment and income opportunities for rural residents. The strategy
would involve working exclusively with groups of beneficiaries, thereby
encouraging small farmers to pool their resources and organize and maintain
groups. The proposed community support component would provide:
(a) concrete procedures for involvement of beneficiaries, organized in
groups, in the selection, planning, and implementation of local
sub-projects; and (b) a community development fund to finance local
sub-projects on the basis of specific proposals generated by the
beneficiaries themselves. The project would also finance training,
vehicles, equipment and salaries for community development staff. Initial
contributions and a comnitment to operate and maintain investments by
beneficiaries are integral features of the component.



- 42 -                     ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
C. Implementation Procedures and Criteria
4.        Beneficiary Definition.  Eligible beneficiaries would be
registered and non-registered farmers' groups, associations, cooperatives
or syndicates, whose members reside in project priority areas (Annex 2) and
who meet the definition for project beneficiaries (main text, para. 2.08).
Local community development agents (para. 10) would identify and verify the
eligibility of interested groups.
5.        Type of Sub-Projects to be Financed.  The CD fund would be used
to finance three categories of sub-projects:
(a) Training and Legal Assistance (up to 15% of the CD fund),
including: training for group leaders and members in such topics
as organization and leadership, orientation for community
development through group action, and pertinent legal issues;
training for group secretaries and treasurers in simple
accounting, record-keeping, and payment procedures; training for
group members in the operation and maintenance of equipment and
infrastructure financed by the fund; and legal assistance for
land matters related to the implementation of the Northeast Rural
Development Program.
(b) *Economic Sub-Projects (not less than 60% of the CD fund),
including cottage industries and small village enterprises such
as confectionary, tailoring, and handicraft ventures; processing
equipment, such as flour mills, hulling machines, and
decorticators; tree nurseries and fishponds; small animal
improvement schemes and group agricultural equipment.
(c) Infrastructure Sub-Projects (up to 252 of the CD fund), including
small civil works such as storage facilities for seeds,
fertilizer, and agricultural production; communal laundry
facilities; and small rural tracks.
6.        Guidel'nes for Selection of Sub-Projects.  The following
guidelines have been established to determine eligibility for financing of
sub-projects:
(a) The sub-project must be self-sustaining and benefit the whole
group;
(b) The group and the sub-project should be such that the group or
association could be solely responsible for sub-project
management and implementation, with only limited technical
assistance, if necessary;
(c) The sub-project falls into one of the categories described in
para. 5; and
(d) A written proposal, including objectives; justification; detailed
budget; benefits expected; method of implementation; operating
and maintenance procedures; and type and level of group



- 43 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
contributions, either in cash or kind, must be approved by a
Municipal Council for each sub-project.
7.        The following types of sub-projects or expenditures would not be
eligible for financing under the CD fund:
(a) operation and maintenance costs of sub-projects;
(b) investments which could be financed by other project components
or government programs (e.g., schools, health posts, rural
electrification, roads); and
(c) sub-projects which are mainly aimed at consumption, with no
direct or indirect economic benefit (e.g., religious festivals).
8.        Funding limits per year for each priority area have been
established. However, no pre-determined list of sub-projects or maximum
limit per sub-project has been established. This approach was chosen to
avoid repetition of previous experiences where sub-projects or community
needs were de facto determined by government planners. Maximum limits per
sub-project were not set since maximum limits, once known, have a tendency
to become minimum limits and could lead to over-sophistication of
sub-projects. It is expected, however, that most sub-projects would be
small because of expected demands on the CD fund and the desire of
Community/Municipal Councils to maximize coverage, and the requirement that
sub-projects meet the criteria listed in para. 6. As a safeguard, careful
monitoring, especially during the first years, would be carried out to
detect any emerging problems, and new guidelines would be formulated, if
necessary (para. 13).
9.        Staffing.  The success of proposed community support activities
would depend largely upon an efficient organization with suitably trained
and equipped staff able to encourage beneficiaries to organize and take
full advantage of the CD fund to finance sub-projects for the benefit of
the whole community. To achieve these objectives, the project would
finance the recruitment and training of CD agents at the regional and local
levels. Annual recriitment targets have been geared to the expected rate
at which suitable staff could be recruited and trained. The project would
also provide senior advisers who would be responsible for training,
technical assistance, and supervision of regional and local staff.l/
10.       CD staff would carry out the following functions:
(a) At the local level - The local CD agent, working with communities
in two to three municipalities, would: encourage the formation of
farmers' groups and other community associations; identify
existing elegible groups, associations, syndicates, and
cooperatives; orient groups and stimulate discussions on the
activities financed by the project and the component; assist
1/   Quantitative staffing details are found in the Supplementary Staff
Working Papers (Annex 13).



*    44                    ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
groups in the identification of local investment opportunities
and in the formulation of proposals for financing: participate in
Community/Municipal Council meetings (para. 11); check
sub-project implementation progress; and assist in monitoring and
on-going evaluation activities.
(b) At the regional level - The regional CD agent would: coordinate
and superv!se the work of four to six local CD agents; hold
biweekly meetings to discuss progress and problems which arise
during implementation; participate in Municipal Council meetings
(para. 11); liaise with regional staff from other executing
agencies and the project regional administration; produce monthly
progress reports; and assist in monitoring and on-going
evaluation activities.
(c) At the state level - The senior CD advisers would: carry out pre-
and in-service training for CD agents; provide orientation
training on beneficiary participation and the commmmity support
component for all project field staff; check approved
sub-projects for conformity with guidelines and establish
priorities, if needed (para. 11); produce quarterly monitoring
reports, including a summry of activities undertaken and
achievements per region and a qualitative assessment of
implementation progress, targets achieved, and problems
encountered; carry out on-going evaluation of farmers' acceptance
of CD activities; and assist in carrying out mid-term and final
evaluations of the component.
11.       Administration and Implementation of the CD Fund.  The selection
and planning of potential sub-projects would be carried out by farmers'
groups, associations, syndicates and cooperatives. The CD agent would
advise eligible groups on technical and administrative matters, including
proposal format. If necessary, the CD agent would call on appropriate
field staff from other agencies to advise groups on technical aspects of
sub-projects. Sub-project proposals would be submitted to community or
municipal councils (MC) for discussion, analysis, approval and assignment
of priority. Eaclh MC would consist of two elected representatives from
each community within the municipality 2, and the Prefect, Secretary, and
Treasurer of the municipality. The local and regional CD agents and the
regional project administrator would also participate in MC meetings. The
meetings would take place on a monthly basis, but could be less frequent if
no proposals were submitted during the preceding month. Approval if
sub-projects would be carried out by simple majority vote. Once
sub-projects were approved, they would be forwarded to a regional committee
consisting of the regional project administrator, the regional CD
supervisor, and the state-level senior CD advisers. The committee would
only reverse MC recommendations if sub-projects did not conform to the
guidelines. If regional annual funding limits had been reached, funding of
the sub-projects would be postponed until the next fiscal year.
2/   On average, chere are four to eight communities within a municipality.



- 45-                          ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
12.       For approved sub-projects, the CD advisers and the SCU lawyer
would prepare a written agreement (convenio) to be signed by the
association or group. The convenio would contain a detailed and explicit
description of the sub-project, implementation procedures, contributions by
beneficiaries, obligat¶ons of the recipient group, default provisions, and
a schedule of payments to the group. Payments -nuld be made in
installments, with implementation progress and expenditures monitored by
the local and regional CD agents. In the case of legally registered
entities, payment would be made directly to a designated bank account in
the entity's name. In the case of unregistered groups, the convenio would
be signed by the municipality on behalf of the group, with funds channelled
through the municipality. The SCU would be responsible for all
record-keeping of CD Fund expenditures. Procedures for submission of
reimbursement requests and auditing of accounts would be those established
for the project as a whole.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
13.       Adequate and timely monitoring and evaluation would be essential
to ensure the component's success by providing information for early
detection of problems and the formulation of solutions. Regional and
state-level CD and project administration staff would be primarily
responsible for monitoring physical and financial progress. The regional
CD agent would produce a monthly summary report on progress achieved,
problems encountered, and action taken or recommended. He would also carry
out on-going evaluation, mainly through periodic short simple surveys, to
measure project inputs and tne impact of the various sub-projects on the
local population. On a quarterly basis, state-level staff would carry out
more detailed analyses of project performance and any systematic problems
and recommend actions to be taken by the SCU cooreinator. The SCU would
produce an annual evaluation of the previous year's activities. The
component would also be included in the monitoring and evaluation
activities to be undertaken for the project as a whole (main text, paras.
4.08-4.09).
E. Risks
14.       Proposed community support activities represent an ambitious and
innovative undertaking. However, community development activities have
some historical precedents, and the policies, objectives, and procedures
have been planned and discussed by specialists and responsible officials at
the federal, regional, and state levels over an 18-month period. In
addition, beneficiaries and local officials were consulted early on in the
planning process and influenced component design. A high degree of
commitment at all levels to the component is evident. An emphasis on
training and monitoring and evaluativn should help the initiation of
activities and allow for early detection of weaknesses and th(- taking of
corrective actions, if necessary. Although the risks are considerable, the
potential benefits and contribution to self-sustained rural development at
the local level make those risks worthwhile.



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Criteria for Compliance with Selected Key Loan Conditions
... the SCU would be staffed and maintained under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank-. (para. 2.30).
- the qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment for the Directors of Planning, Operations, and
Administration, the chief of the Technical Support Unit, and the
regional administrators would be satisfactory to the Bank.
- the structure of the SCU and the number of project-financed SCU
staff would be maintained as described in para. 2.30, unless
previously agreed upon with the Bank.
- the SCU's terms of reference would contain those tasks described
in para. 4.04, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank.
- any legal instruments required to implement and maintain tLe
above criteria would be promptly executed, with copies forwarded
to the Bank.
II.   ... terms of reference for the mid-term and post-project evaluations
would be satisfactory to the Bank. (para. 4.09).
- At least 50% of mid-term and post-project evaluation work would
be contracted by the SCU to a permanent, independent, highly
experienced evaluation agency.
- Up to 50% of the mid-term and post-project review could be
conducted by the CEPA-RN Department of Planning, provided terms
of reference and implementation schedules were satisfactory to
the Bank.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities
(US$'000)
kW CMtg                                                Total
194/15M 19651996/191 907/M 11                           I01 /1901990/1" 9I 191/1M  1992/193    U  I
"112111411011 muUUMmEu 411a 1 sawauoa aa naanum uusuanaga  x a88xn   uazazaaaaua*a
A. WATER K9URE    S WOtOENT
DOESTIC  ATER  MIES                               574      1.373       "3           -          -          -         -          -          -     2.i
IRRIBATION                                        189     29030      3,131      3.962      3.499     2,023        639         56        56    ISS
Uob._...4D  TER-98011a    _mw       ML               726L- -_.2401      4 _24-  .1,9OM-J ..- 2s#21 -    A39   -                    ..5..  .3  ..-i.. _ I
0.AIICILTIJRAREARCH                                  481      19075     1r207      1.322      1.119        796       474        462        462     7.93
C. MRR   EXTENSION                                 2,513      4,612      4.951     4.996      3,919      27M       1.75       1.54       1.7A     21. 
t. RUA  IESThEN  CREIT                                 -      2.410     3.172      5.317      5462       3723      1 t61      1.241         20    23.66
El H   ETINB                                         269        635        036       67         034        306         9         66         66    4,016
Fe S91993  70 SPWLL COMMUN1TIES                      209    1I202        1.965     1.966      1t619    1b323         m          651        394    10.406
6, PROJCT ADMINISTRATION                             m        1.44       1.5       1,564      1,251        928       626        607        641    10.007
- -       .------ -- -
Tutel *DAEMIIE COUTS                                 5.089    15,360    19,110    19F614    17,702    11,826         6435       4,857     4,014   103,027
Phiical Continfncins                                 97        377        495       526        519        260       7n           -                2-s
Prigw  Cntineenein                                    -        956     2.813      5.131      6.40      5.592      35866    3,125       2,978    3090
Total PROJECT C05T                                   5,186    16.716    21.410    25.270    24.6609 1478    10101               7.983     69M    136.206
Nua.a*UUU memuEU*Uflaea.uMaUU 18UU 1 aa1u 11u1in 11ua   aaaasaaao uaasmuan  nowuaga  
Forti*n Exhmwo                                      60       2,562     3.540      4,069      4.197     20n         1441        881        649    20775
_ _ _   .    _      _     _     _      _     _      _     _     _      _                                                                 -
I0



-48 -                    AZNEX6
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPNT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements 1/
Calendar Year    Quarter    Disbursed During       Cumulative       Balance
Ending          Quarter       Anount Disbursed    of Loan
1985         June 30             0                  0             61.4
Sept. 30          3.4                3.4 1/         58.0
Dec  31           1.0                4.4            57.0
1986         lMarch 31          1.0                5.4            56.0)
June  30          1.0                6.4            55.0
Sept. 30          1.1                7.5            53.9
Dec. 31           1.3                8.8            52.6
1987          March 31          1.5               10.3            51.1
June 30           1.6               11.9            49.5
Sept. 30          2.0               13.9            47.5
Dec. 31           2.2               16.1            45.3
1988          March 31          2.5               18.6            42.8
June  30          2.4               21.0            40.4
Sept. 30          2.4               23.4            38.0
Dec. 31           2.6               26.0            35.4
1989          March 31          2.6               2S3b            32.8
June  30          2.4               31.0            30.4
Sept. 30          2.4               33.4            28.0
Dec. 31           2.6               36.0            25.4
1990          March 31          2.6               38.6            22.8
June  30          2.4               41.0            20.4
Sept. 30          2.4               43.4            18.0
Dec. 31           2.3               45.7            15.7
1991          March 31          2.2               47.9            13.5
June 30           2.1               50.0            11.4
Sept. 30          2.1      -        52.1             9.3
Dec.  31          2.1               54.2             7.2
1992          March 31          2.0               56.Z             5.2
June  30          1.7               57.9             3.5
Sept. 30          1.3               59.2             2.2
Dec. 31           1.1               60.3             1.1
1993          March 31          0.8               61.1             G.3
June 30           0.3               b1.4              0
1/  Including Special Acwunt Deposit



- 49 -
ANNEX 7
BRAZIL
NORAST RURAL DVELOP           PROGRAM
NORTHLEAS RURAL DEVEIDPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHOEST RURAL DEVELOFMENT II PROJECT
List of Executing and CollAborating Agencies
Main
Executing
Project Activity                     Agency             Main CoUlaborating Agencies
Water Resource Development
- State public irrigation          CIDA-RN             DNOCS, SUDENE, private
consultants
- Increased fingerling production  Secretariat of       SUDENE, MNMCS
Agriculture
- Feasibility studies              CEPA-RN             SUDENE, private consultants,
SEPLAN-RN
- Rural community water supply     CAERN               Private contractors, CDM,
municipalities, comumnities,
SUDENE, private consultants
Agricultural Research
- Studies, trials, observation     EMPARN               EMATER-RN, CPATSA,
units                                                EMBRAPA
- Basic seed production            EMPARN              EWATER-RN, CIDA-RN
- Initial breeding stock           EMPARN              EMATER-RN
Rural Extension                      EMAIER-RN          EMRAEER, EMPARN, CPATSA
Rural Investment Credit             BB, BDRN, BNB       EKATERHN
Marketing
- Training courses                  COBAL               EMATER-RN
- Marketing Information and         CEASA- RN           EMATER-RN, Secretariat of
cotmercial orientation service                       Agriculture
- Improvements in municipal        Municipalities      COBAL
markets and fairs
- Expansion of the Rede Somar      CORAL               SUDENE, CIDA-RN
Support to Small Rural Coammities
- Couamnity activities              Counity Groups   SPAG, SCU, EMA -WRN,
municipalities
- Training a-id tecimical assistance SPAG              F'RS-RN, SCU
State Project Administration        SCU                 SUJDENE, private consultants,
all project executing agencies



- 50 -
AmIZK 8
Page 1 of 3
NCStTWAST RURWL OEVELOMEKr PROGRAM
NUTNE4ST RURL OEVELOPU3T II PROJECT
K y IndIcators for Nonttowrn
Princt pl Oblctives                        monitcrln_l Indicators                      Composite Nnitarlng IndtcatorS 2
1. Water R-uourca Oew lome nt
A. Pubie and Private Irrqatlimn
-  Increase Productive tbe ot       -  No. of cof oaftd hesiblilty studies             -  Crop yi-lds per he end per arop in
water Raources                   -  No. ot final destgns coepleted                     irrlgwted areas
- Decrese Orou"ht Risk tO           -  No. of schemis - Initiated                      -  Estirnted cost recowvry Index
Smell Frmws                                        - Patfally comailted             -  Average not financial return per he
- fully functioning             -  Average totnl  avestIAt cost per ha
-  No. ot irrigated ha Per sce
- No. of ben-ticiaries par schaN
- No. of water user assoeltlonS tormed
- No. of ha ot private irrigltion 1/
- No. of beneficiaries of prtvalt
trrigation 1/
a.  Smll oes Ptlet Prodect
-  Oevelop drought-restStennt       - No. of sall daes completed                       -  Averagp  Investment cost per tfrm
terming Syst_e* for SM  I        -  NO. ot ha irrigated                             -  Averg  not ftinancal return per he
forms                            -  No. of he with SuPPDD-mntol Irrigation
C. Community  Wte SupplV
-  Increase oval labIlitY of        -  NO. of comnunity water-Supply syst"ms:          - No., ot tfalie-s benetittad
good quality drinking water         -  inttifted                                    -  Average COSt/System
- Reouce Incidence ot                  -  ComplOted                                    -  Avrag  cost/beneficlary
water-born dIsease                  -  functloning
-  No. of systems maintalned by:
conmuni y
- tmuaicipghity
-  Stte govewrnfmnt
- NO. ot op rators trained
0. Famil Water SUDDIY
-  NO. of small resewvors and Ponds built I/
-  Ensure minimu. water             -  No. of cisterns built 1/                        -  Average cost/cistern
avallability for human and                                                          -  Average cost/reservoir
animel  consumDtlon                                                                 - Average size form with pond
E. Fingerllnq F.oduction
- Annual production of fingerlitngs
-  Provide ompler ntary Income      - NO. of pubilc water bodies stacked               - Percentage of total number of 9ublIc wster
source                           -  No. of prtvat, ponds stocked                       bodies soCked
-  Increase avallablity of                                                             - percentage of total nuabar of private ponds
high-protein tood                                                                      stocked
1/ Financed under tne Project rural tnvestment credit component.
V/ Only auantitiabla tndieators tncludev; auality asseswment would be part ot on-going evaluation.



ANNEX 8
-  51  -                                          page 2  of 3
100iwoclIge ObIective                        Nami90llnd md icata, C$oSid,                                        tndica
2.   VIacultwal Rtesarch sod Sed
Productlio
-  Ad&Mt wetles and                  -  No. of  1atuWe resorce s*dlis                    -  Obwvtiacn Itits: average inv.wtest
cittlvoi   prctil  to             - lb. of qmMortiotal trials                            cost per he
psical a"  tinancial              -  "D. et aheer_lien 'uitts                        -  Observation UWfts:  verag. not flnncell
coditions of imt fa=rs            -  No. of groteesiaol stott                            retrn pe he
-  Investigte poerntall n      _     - Basic swd prodiwtions arma haested and
crops. varitfs  and                  1moun'tt  cr
IntegraWad far syseam            -  No. at goas  and shee  providu  t@o *aresr
- Pravide improve planting
mterials and I vesltock
3. Rural Etnaslm
A. Apriculturel Extnsion
-  Irnroduce l pov   tar            -  No. oa local exienscon attics,                  -  Average yields Wr crop w   ha-
_ageet and cultivation            -  No. ot farm level  rculttiwal                      -  bawaicaries
practices                            OxtOIsionists                                      -  non-bnetficiaries
-  Establisl turer groups to         -  No. ot reglonal offle  extension                   -  Irrigatd
tactI ftate technology               Drotes5ionais                                      - nonmrrigated
ranst r                          -  No. ot sta  otttc. *xtunslon                     -  Avere ar" expanston per tarm
-  Increase .trci.ncy of                protessmonais                                   -  Total t-cremntal area per crop
xtesion service                   -  No. ot toarmr  groups                           -     extension bCo.ticiarfef using:
-  AssIst t  eN rs to obta  n        -  NO. ot taerrrs assisted                            -  improved seeds
credit tot Investnnts and        -  No. ot de onstratln units                          -  anltim  tractlon
modr n tnputs                     - No. ot tralnig courses tor extension                -  not proctices
Stott                                              -  now inputs (axcluding SNds)
- Extension cost/tarmoe
- Demonstration plots: averag! Cost and
financial return oDr ha
- S of extension bonetrel_rIse with goats
or sheeps
B. Socall Extension
-   romote Imroved nutrition         -  No. at locel soclal extensionists
and cil Id cre                    -  No. ot soct-l extonsion groups
-   romote supplementary Incoen      - No. ot orchards and vegetoble gardens
ctivities                         -  No. ot hoe  or group Industries
C. SociaI Forestry
-  Incroase supplies ot              -  No. at smil nurseries VstGbiIShed
tuelvood, truit, todder, and     -  No. gt sedlings by sDecies distrlbuted to
suiit Industrial wQOd                farmrs
-  l n_eate additional Incoms        - Total no. of partcioetling tarmers
end employment opportIntiges      -  Total no. of Mectares planted
4. Rurel Credit
F finance inputs and                 Investment CredIt:
Investments to Increaso          -  No. ot applicatTans                              -  Np, and tyPe ot loan  er fearm s xe
s_ 11 tarmer production and      -  No. ot loans                                     -  Average no. ot days between loan
productivity levels              -  value of loans                                       PPltc.ation and disbursemunt
-  No. ot loans to now clients                     -  No. and total volum of Investment and
- No. ot loans for trrigation                         seasonal loans oer bank



AINNE 8
-  52-                                             P*3-of 3
Principal  bjectives                        l tr     lils                                 CI     llarl  indcatr
Semal Creildts: 
- f. of cml        e
- l. of  loe_
- No. of ;_ems to mm coielnt
5. lbleine
A, Tralntng and lbrkhatin                 Nol. and y. o  training w5s
lanorinla                             -        s    4-  A a  ge pr odue prices for princIpal
-  incrgse mall frmErs'                - markting age"                                     ot farmers e11g9 CraOt
marketing knoluedg and              -  project staff                                     a t leol maielpal mrket
Improve their competitive        - ob. of bnetierles wcr couew                        - at ukelesul* _wket
poattla                         -  ft. of fwrs rlciving regltawkating                -  @,-f    to porit  trader
Intormtlon and  e_ClAl orlentataon                  on-far  to govern_ent  ascy
lewaludtng radlo broedasts)                         on-fwa  to privoat  trader
I. leprovenats of Rural lbrket
-  Iprove wkating                  -  ft. of studle, In progrsa or completd           - Arage.ost our ipoved mark&t
Inur-aaructu                     - lb. ot rurl _we1t  inuroved thiough:
-  purchae of gul omt
-  sl cl repstr/costructlu
- raorglzatlon/opratlonal Iiro_vemnts
C. Extension of Rado So5
Wholoal, SYtem
-  incroeasa  vallablity of         - mb. of Cral Servlce Centers constrcted/            A Ara  loal cn r ns_  Drtco differential
bastc food Ia   ot                  ramodulad                                         for baic food it1s bet__e PAd  Sr
reasonablo prices                - lb. ot RDral Service Coete  fun tioning             ftfil ated end non-uftillted retallurs
- No. o  attilIlated reltl lars Ver  jrw loe
center
6. Community Support                    - No. ot local counumity devaloomnt workers       - Averag  S of group contrtbution to total
- mm. of manIcIpalftlos reached                      sub-project costs
-  Encoura  organiatlon of          -   ab. of wrewols prowted to  liICltSl           - £ of sub-projects conldered successtul
groups and benfielary               councils                                          ta vors after compltlon
particlIption                    - No. of orojet appreoved:                        - Participating groups:
- ProvIde naed                         -  Tot I                                          -  g rog I strd
Infrastructure ana                 -  Intrastructur                                   -  S non -reglstared
additlonl _uDloysant                -  Econnlc                                      Averag  cos par sub-project:
opportunites a*t toa                -  Tralilng                                       -  Total
community tovel                  - No. of completed projects                          -  lntr astructura
- mo. of coimnity develop-ant staff trained         -  Economic
- No. of other project statt tralned                - Training
- wo. of tull tIle oarmanent Jobs created
- Amount of temporary eaDloyaant ge9erated
7  Sta5te  Adullsltratlon
- Plan. coordinato.  onttor        - No. of higher level staff                        - Avrage no. of days In field  ar won+h
and avahlate Stat rural          - no. ot highr level financial Staff                 - control 0tit statt
development ectivitles           - No. of hioghr level monitoring staft               -  roegonal administrators
- No. of regial field adminIstrators              - Average no. of days delay In submitting
- No. of SRC Meetings In last twlve monets          ronthly re1mburs_xant reuusts to Central
- No. of STC lbetings In last telve monits          Bnek
-  bo. ot Inter.munIctpal Councils               -  ID. of uoarterly reports In las1 12 months
functioning                                       omploetd:
- No. of short on-gong evalvtilon studls            -  an tioe
complete                                          - one mth delay
- greatr t"an oo month delay
1/ NDt tinanced u_der the loan.



-53 -
AN= 9
BRAZE
WsT RM4L E             EW   M
SI)RDFMr RINAL IEBMLIW5I II PRO=
Total Amul Am aurd Prn&utLm of NMaor 
Withcut Project and at Ebll DeR= Mt
Crops              &tbat Projet           WLth Project              Iucre.ltal
krea  Prodim        Arm    Produtim       Am k    P roducti     Vale
(ha)    (tow)       (ha)       (tow)      (ba)      (Wm)   (W$'000)
CottQl                  12,734     7,780      16,996    16,590      4,262      8,800    3,593
lhize                   22,169    22,490      22,162    27,54D         (7)    5,050       622
BeaEs                   22,644    13,440      37,944    31,490     15,300    18,050   17,148
Cassava                  2,635    30,260       8,573   110,980      5,938    80,72)    2,544
Grain SDogba              -         -          6,557     8,03D      6,557      8,030      837
Ritce                      975      1,170      1,350     4,240        375      3,070      449
Tropical Ftdttsl/          230    29,250         284    36,9W          54      7,670      2D9
('000 frtitaY
Benmas                     325     3,250        700    17,000         375    13,750    1,304
Cocomits ('000 fruits)     650      1,950        650     3,250        -        1,300      198
Casew                      355       140         710       430        355       29D       262
Taiatoes                   520      7,800       5iD)   10,4U0         -        2,600      612
--t Potatoes               410     3,360        260      1,820       (150)   (1,540)    (177)
Garlic                    -         -            375     1,875        375      1,875    1,601
Forage Crops              -   ) 338,000       40,675 ) 817,000     40,675  ) 479,000      -
Native PasWme          Ib4, 74 )             104,476 )            (60,318))
Liiestodc
Coat Mlk ('000 1.)         -         -           -        9,92o        -       9,920    2,480
MlIk ('000 1.)             -         -           -        6,750        -        6,750    1,235
urk (livewegit)            -         -           -          43)        -         43D       5i0
Gost Meat (U%wellgt)       -         -           -        1,870        -        1,870    4,420
Beef (livaeW )             -         -           -        1,230        -        1,230    1,127
Total                   63,647 2/ 89,690 3/  97,081 21 230,385 3/  33,434 2/ 140,695 3/ 39,114
1/  Twcbudes cstard qple, orai3, wargoes, aod soureop.
2f Fbxiig Eorage caops.
31  FE1ucdg tropicaL fmLts,  amuot8s forag crqns an livetodk Mrodias.



_ 54 _
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Yields and Areas of Major Crops at Farm Level
Without Project (W.O.) and at Full Development (F.D.)
-----Yields------ --Area-----
W.O.        F.D.   Increase    W.O.  F.D
---kg/ha---- (X)   -ha----
SEMI-ARID (MODEL 1)
Cotton + Maize + Beans                                                    2      2
Cotton                              300        400    33
Maize                               380        500    32
Beans                               280        400    43
Cotton + Sorghum + Beans                                                  -      1
Cotton                              300        400    33
Grain Sorghum                        -         800      -
Beans                               280        370    32
Maize + Beans                                                              1   1.5
Maize                               450        500    11
Beans                               350        460    31
HUMID HILLS - (Model 2)
Cassava + Maize + Beans                                                   1      2
Cassava                           6,000      8,000    33
Maize                               400        500    25
Bes,ns                              300        400    33
Cotton + Maize + Beans                                                    1   1.5
Cotton                              305        400    31
Maize                               400        500    25
Beans                               300        400    33
Cashews (old)                             400        500    25          0.5   0.5
Cashews (new)                               -        700     -            -   0.5
Tropical Fruits (000 Fruits)                                            0.4   0.4
Custard Apple                        20         25    25
Oranges                              25         31    24
Mangoes                               50        63    26
Soursop                               8         10    25
AGRESTE (MODEL 3)
Cassava + Maize + Beans                                                   2      0
Cassava                             300        400    33
Maize                               380        500    32
Beans                               280        370    32
Cotton + Maize + Beans                                                  1      2
Cotton                              300        400    33
Maize                               380        500    32
Beans                               280        370    32



55                           ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
-- …Yields-------- ---Area------
W.O.       F.D.   Increase    W.O.  F.D
---kg/ha-----   (Z)         ----ha--
Cassava + Beans                                                          0      5
Cassava                          10,000    14,000    40
Beans                               300        420    40
SERTAO-SEMI-ARID (MODEL 4)
Perenn. Cotton + Maize + Beans                                           4      2
P.Cotton                            120        200    67
Maize                               300        400    33
Bean                                250        330    32
Maize + Beans                                                            2      3
Maize                               400        530    33
Beans                               300        400    33
Perenn. Cotton + Sorghum + Beans                                         0       2
P.Cotton                              0        200     -
Grain Sorghum                         -        fUO     -
Bean                                  -        330     -
MIXED RAINFED/IRRIGATED (3 - Family) (MODEL 5)
Rainfed Cotton                           700          -      -           2       U
Maize + Beans (Rainfed)                                                1.5       3
Maize                               45U        600    33
Beans                               350        460    31
Irrigated Crops
Cotton                                -     2,000      -            0    1.5
Beans                                 -      1,200     -            0    1.5
Rice                                  -     3,500      -            0    0.5
Garlic                                -     5,UOO      -            0    0.5
Bananas                               -    25,000      -            O    0.5
Beans + Sweet Potato                                                   0.4       0
Beans                               400          -     _
Sweet Potato                      6,000          -     -
HUMID VALLEYS RAINFED/IRRIGATED (MODEL b)
Irrigated Crops;
Banana                                10,000    25,000   150           0.5    0.5
Rice                                   1,200      3,000   150            1    1.5
Tomatoes                              15,000    20,000    33           0.3    0.8
Rainfed Crops:
Sweet Potato                           6,00U      7,000    17          0.2    0.4
Cassaia + Beans                                                          1       1
Cassava                          10,000    14,000    40
Beans                               300        400    33
Coconuts ('000 Fruits)                 3,000      5,000    67            1       1



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DKYELOPNEDT PROGRAH
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPNENT II PROJECT
Proect Ecwualc "Istu
Cruuim  Nhlliwl lAi  1,14
1       2        3       4        5        6        7       6        9       10      11       12       13      14       15       16      17       I2       19      29
IMEnTL EVITS
611U   OUFin  MW ITs                  -222     262   5090   142   32192   34354   44m             42127   492   44043   50491   45032   509           4195   5096     4519    50967   45195   5I967   4519
FIN  9UCIUN                              -        -     164      354      498     491      4m       498     479      49       49      4SI      41       49      41       49       46      49       49       499
rorTA     FIS                        -222      262   11154    5336   326"   34652   450          42625   4150   4451   50M          45530   51457   45693   51465   45693   51465   45693   51445   45693
IICK    IM  CtOSIS
MMu Ou-A   COSTO                      716   106   IS34   15752   I551    1104    14814   11107   15517   11321   15513   12040   1550   12425   1541                     2443   16210   12194   15627   11415
IIEI  11IGATI2N PSOEICT                 69      134     776      355  *        ,             - ,   ,   ,                          ,   ,   _   _ 
P91         IM ITII fCOJCT               -      97      U7       412      161       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -
ANIAM  INIMAII   PICd                   60        -     6o         -
luOtO IIUtOI ll irET                   454    200      M4    3247    13           3"         -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -
111IIAII IN4  WENT                    440      421      292      230     109       79        9      79
miU Aw FIN U TI Y                      471  in    68               -        -
CAICO FIE ITU                          39        54      54        - s  s
M61XUAIf        IEACH                 2155    ldd      1116    1538    1073       646      630     630      616      525      343     343      343      343     343      343      343      343     343      343
EXTIS                                 9403    601    6254    50         3577    2336    2336    2336    2122        2774    11292    1192    1192    1126    1192    1122    1122    1162    2192    1192
TMANI1IU    KETIN)                     372     194      174      133      75       39       34       34       -        -        -        -       -        -                     -       -            -
IlT  UFI1TIU                           374     160      193      147      106      77       77       77      73       55       37      37       37       37       37      37       37       37      37       37
MM  EmUWIWIT                           216      1S5     177      766     206        5        5        5        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -
MASCY A NISTUTI66                     353     251    2216    1695    1257         847      119      867     932      624      416     416      416      416     416      416      416      416     416      416
K6lSK  MUNISIIAIy                     1114     590      4t       30       229     157      157      214      170     127       es        -       -        -        -       -        -        -
KIKAW     Cl3IMATION                  I       123      1l2       73      60       39       39       39       39      29       20        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -
INCE(II. CO01;                      271i    256       32206   2713   24262   15s7   I281         w16o   i177   14445    7596   1418   175            14403   17439   1442I     1        14272   1795   1393 
IKIN1ML IT  NEIFITS
TOIAL INC1IN LMET EFITS   -27370  -25396  -209.   -1477                  427   I9275   26030   26457   30173   3009    33393   31512   336i    31290   34026   31272   33257   31521   3360   32300
&Xs-=.I X55355  *s5555g  835*05- zzZ535 55T5585  5*g5555555585 2--     5555 - SUman           5SJ&855 525555 Manages 55555m558a55555555ax,5555555 -m:  555a55555252-



_ 57 _
ANNEX 12
llRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMNT PROGRAM
NORTHEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Principal Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
(Cruzeiros in constant Jue 1984 prices)
Economic
Financlal                1984        1998
Selected Products
Beans          per kg                  800                    DUO        WO
Maize           "  -                   200                    272        249
Rice            "                      24U                    341         413
Sorghum                                170                    170        170
Cotton          "                      670                    663        858
Banana         per ton             150,000                150,000     150,000
Cassava                            39,70U                  39,700      39,700
Oranges         "  "               110,000                110,000     110,000
Selected Inputs
Triple superphosphate per kg           500                    396         461
Potassium Chloride                     350                    309        342
Urea                                  450                     468        630
SOURCE: Bank Mission



_ 58 -
ANNEX 13
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
List 'of Working Papers and Key Documents in Project File
1. State Government of Rio Grando do Norte: -Rural Development Program of
Rio Grande do Norte," May - June 1984.
Volume I    -   Diagnostic Study (various sub-volumes)
Volume II   -   Summary, Objectives and Strategy
(various sub-volumes)
Volume III  -   Project Components (various
sub-volumes)
Volume IV   -   Administration
Volume V    -   Financial and Economic Analysis
2.  SUDENE   :   Regional Program of Support to the Small Rural Producer,"
May 1984.
Volume I    -   Program Summary
Volume II   -   Background
Part I - The Brazilian Economy
Part II - The Northeast
Part III - The Rural Sector in the
Northeast
Volume III  -   Policy Framework
Volume IV   -  The Program
Part I - Global Conception
Part II-VIII - Program Components
Part IX - Targets and Total Costs
Volume V    -  Administration
Volume VI   -   Socio-Economic Justification
Annex       -   Regional Agricultural Programming
3.  SUDENE  : "Description of the Programing, Monitoring and Evaluation
Sub-systeus,- September 1984.
4.  SUDENE  :  Nordeste em Dados,  1984.
5. IBRD, SUDENE, and State Government of Sergipe - "Minutes of
Understanding- (2 volumes), July 1984.
6. IBRD. Supplementary Staff Working Papers
1.   Water Resource Development - Irrigation
2.   Water Resource Development - Water Supply
3.   Agricultural Research and Rural Extension
4.  Marketing
5.   Community Support
6.  Agricultural Development and Farm Models
7.   Financial and Economic Analysis
8.   Detailed Costs



- 59 -
NORIHST RURAL DEYEOPMENT II PROJECT
NotR DRk -  Pmg
f*d    CoordIon and Monoginent Chcft
COODAUOU&                           PiCY&PDUOn
-                                                      -~-
Kws   F  BIM  A                IA  E  IDO
9-        *LD-   -- 
a v     ~      a 
rOMWAUCROME)                                  REI GAL E. I
I                                 DMeWMI 11t1W  O
3COORDMMM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I___ __ __ __ ___ __ __ _ ___ ___ _ _ _ __ __________
IVGRECUAZEO  L        GMRIX)NoI aL
l  _     _                 l                ~~~~~~~~~~~~SM ElEA C
tLQEGUEF __Dtaz_zr3WEF  ___J 
r .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I-                  R           I     JGAB4
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FV COORfFD TOS0 C  ° 1II111
L                                                                       |cL~  SI
oumcma*xc)F  DlECXvMMCW  coaw   or



46-                        2
rO2ffe/e    -SAO-
L 2~~~~~~~~~~~~Lf
PARA
,/
<:   ..AV  /  z    9~~~  .       EBEINA, ;jcs
_6.    >  L / -         m         t  t    '''''''-  'bric 
r) -t          .g!R A /N  HL A 0\!C EC A d
Bu P
I /     _       ,      7Bolsos r,> / AP
i , ' ~~C, ,! ', 
-10            --                '     )-C
,-- y,            --:  ~~~~~~~~~,-~
GO i A'S
B   A. H ~I 
!>        oirr 4
*  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Sor
1405w' "Z //-//' \s, s.,r--SC
FEDERAL DISTRICT\ 2
.~~~~~~ ~  2fBqaz~f -            °°  
{         ,  ~~~~~Montes 
)                                           /
I~,                                     ,-   /
-a-           \    IAM  I N  A S        G  E R A I S
rESPIRITO
t _-~  46-               42  (5SANTO
1-              4,2'     ro~~~~~~~~~/ vA,,i,,



IBRD 18480
38-                          COtlAHbi-\~~         ,F  U^   
r ~ 35 .     .i SLJR rFJA ME
GUYANA
2   j             R B  RA  Z
PROGRAN AREA
T A     L     E     Z      A                                   v       )        s.o~FORTAEZA  o  woo
J': SX  |<t    z          G   sRIO GRANDE    (.                     r vGENNN,             M.t,S OC        *000
DO  NORTE         __ _ _ __              __UR_U__AY
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tbatbs  ns  Or,. Jbp,   Lb hat flaY  DJ BPO IWII FJJI ...tt.  u~ _IN.VJ _ C. G~aa.- J-taX
7~ A7                                  .NATAL
JOAO PESSOA
.- z w 6 ~~~~~~~~~~~RECiFE
.-  P   EJ      N  AM                    / 
N
__      >    o      (*10                   MACEIO1-
10'-
/ 5 'AX p )RACAJU
-'.'
4     Feiro  3 
50ntonc 
X ,ffiW _  /                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~B R A Z I L
8\ / ,f o;--NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
J -  ) 1  / SALVADORPROGRAM AREA
-   J  . \                       i       I ~~~~~~~~Existing Bank-Financed Rurol Development Projects*
>   y   \                       -    -  A4~~~~~~ain Roads
;6toria d-o   JRivers
/  onquisto-/
-. | I ~~~~~~~~~~~~Isohyets in mm.
{   !                                 E~~~~~~~~~~~) State Capitals
~~~ |                          °~~~~~~    Selected Towns
J   1                     -~~~~~~~--   State Boundairies
- t  |                     ---  ~~~~~~~International Boundaries
:  /                          ~~~~~~~KilometersO  100  200     300
a   /                          ~~~~~ ~~Mgis 0    100          2600
4ESPIIRIT                                             *Number indicates of-der of .mnplementoioron
rSSANOTOyw                  38-                                341
DECEMBER 1984



38~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
NORTHEAST RU[
0     I0   20   30   4A    so
KILOMETERS                                                                              STATE   OF
-       Asphalt Roads                                   1                                AIECA
Secondary Roods
----Rivers
o    Towns                              N
State Boundaories         /      \\
TO rTABL'EIRO \\ NO\ E
*    Regionol Administmaion Offices                                                                              Pd
Project Piority Area Boundaries
Main Climatic Zone Boundaries        i(
-     Isok1yest in millimeters               /    \                                               J
Apda                                                                  ANG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sc aa
-N ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~  -
C,~~ ,        X7   .\                                                                          \ 
/   /       r   A.#wt..,s  -ONo,U.an Agu\|6V                                                     \d A
)i< ~S ED
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L RoFoa                                                                                                 /-A      S R   I  D>
_ j7, <L>sP A er.*h              AdA  GDO ROCHAos
-  '-    L~~~~s~  ~~0  *~~' ~~  -     %
-,-- ~~~~~~~~   D    ,          VF= -9A 
-         .    NIE\CNsE ANAMAS   ) ( Bm Suseso                               |ds   B      o    b     y        oo SE                          ARJn
'5 Sm-                                                      So..do,
o~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~t dD4R"fdSbcI O JARlIM DO SERIDO  HA 
HA                          myoJ-                      r des N,no
AA  pR                                             A 
3Ss  A37.ondm                                          osad
Fwmnela~~~~~~S.~   3
TEN~~~~ENTE ANA                           T..                   [co             C'.20to~~~~~~~~~~~~~3



IBRD  I 1684R
36                                       s
BRAZIL
-1-T RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                ,10 GOANA tlONC .T0
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO NORTE                                                                     a BRAZ
_UASILIA
SOUTH  AWERICA      ;
OA>                       5--  C8
0                                                    OCEAV
xz::~~~~~~~~~~~~
;_gWE,)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 1200
MACA U   N   I    I1PEST/                             E
c                                                   D
OarndubaLl0                                                0    t des
0 C6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~
3b       t -v'i'J* a mat _- rf th ~a ane ann in. kV_ny d Fst=  v.,   ,  ~   3 5
- in. I.Q  *fI*0 Cf -W M10O-V 00 flO  1100CflV  ~ANUlR IfD  120
L..                   I                                        1 400~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JMAR    



