Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AX     y-6k
Report No.P- 3994-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$61.4 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SECOND NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 5, 1985
Tbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offieial duties. [ts eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank awt.orization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984                                April 5, 1985
Currency Unit - Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1 - Cr$1,952                             US$1 - Cr$4,510
Cr$1 - US$0.000512                          Cr$1   US$.000221
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BB               Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BDRN             Banco do Desenvolvimento do Rio Grande do Norte
(Stace Development Bank)
BNB              Banco do Nordeste do Brasil
(Bank of the Northeast of Brazil)
CA5RN            Companhia de Aguas e Esgotos do Rio Grande do Norte
(State Water Company)
CD               Desenvolvimento Comunitario
(Community Development)
CDM              Companhia de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Minerais
(State Mineral Development Company)
CEASA-RN         Central de Abastecimento do Rio Grande do Norte
(Central Marketing Organization of Rio Grande do Norte)
CEPA-RN          Fundacao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola do Rio Grande
do Norte
(State Agricultural Planning Foundation)
CIDA-RN          Comnpanhia Integrada de Desenvolvimento Agricola
(State Agricultural Devnlopment Company)
COBAL            Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
(Federal Food Company)
CPATSA           Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid
Tropics)
DNOCS            Departmento Nacional de Obras Contra as Secas
(National Department of Drought Works)
EMATER-RN        Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural do Rio
Grande do Norte
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA          Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Federal Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER         Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Federal Company for Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension)
EMPARNL          Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Rio Grande do Norte
(State Agricultural Research Company)
This doument h a resicted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their offic due. Its contents may wt otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



FAO              Food and Agriculture Organization
FINSOCIAL        Fundo de Investimento Social
(Social Investment Fund)
FUNRURAL         Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural
(Assistance Fund for Rural Workers)
IC               Comissao Interministerial Para o Nordeste
(Interministerial Coomission for the Northeast)
IDEC             Instituto de Desenvolvimento Economico
(State Economic Development Institute)
ICM              Imposto a Circulacao de Mercadoria
(Value Added Tax)
INTERN           Instituto de Terra do Rio Grande do Norte
(State Land Institute)
MC               Conselho Municipal/Comunitario
(Municipal/Community Council)
ORTNS            Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesoro Nacional
(Readjustable Obligations of the National Treasury)
POLONORDESTE     Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do
Nordeste
(Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the
Northeast)
PROCANOR         Prograna Especia3 de Apoio as Populacoes Pobres das Zonas
Canavieras
(Special Program of Support for Poor Populations of the
Sugar-Growing Zones)
PROHIDRO         Programa de Recursas Hidricos
(Water Resources Use Program)
PROTERRA         Prograna de Redistribucao de Terras e de Estimulo a
Agro-Industria
(Land Redistribution and Agroindustrial Modernization
Program)
RDC              Conselho de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Regional Rural Development Council)
SCU              Unidade de Coordenacao Estadual
(State Coordinating Unit)
SDR              Superintendencia Adjunta de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Adjunct Superintendency for Rural Development)



SEPLAN-PR        Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Federal Planning Ministry)
SEPLAN-RN        Secretaria de Planejamento do Estado do Rio Grande do
Norte
(State Planning Secretariat)
SERTANEJO        Programa Especial de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da Regiao
Semi-Arida do Nordeste
(Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast)
SPAG             Secretaria Publica de Assuntos do Governo
(State Secretariat for Government Affairs)
SRDC             Conselho Estadual de Desenvolvimento Rural
(State Rural Development Council)
STC              Comissao Tecnica Estadual
(State Technical Commission)
SUDENE           Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development for the Northeast)
TSA              Programa de Pesquisa do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Semi-Arid Tropics Research Program)



NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
SECOND NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Federative Republic of Brazil
Project         CEPA-RN, designated as SCU for coordination of all state
Executing      and federal agencies participating in the Rio Grande do
Agency       Norte State Rural Development Plan.
Amount:         US$61.4 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Beneficiaries:  Some 35,000 low-income families operating farms of up to
100 ha in the State of Rio Grande do Norte would be the
direct beneficiaries of farm improvement components. An
additional 70,000 families would also benefit from the
water supply, community development and marketing services
components.
Project
Description:    The proposed project is the second in a series of projects
within the new Northeast Rural Development Program,
designed to increase, on a regional basis, the efficiency
and impact of rural development efforts. The project would
improve the beneficiaries' standards of living, incomes,
and employment opportunities. It would support water
resource development for both production and consumption,
adaptive agricultural research and rural extension, rural
investment credit, marketing services, funding for
community sub-projects, and state project coordination.
Risks:          Although simpler in design than previous rural development
projects in Brazil's Northeast, efficient delivery of
project services and interinstitutional cooperation among a
number of agencies would be important for prolect success.
During project preparation, institutional weaknesses were
identified and measures introduced to improve institutional
effectiveness and coordination arrangements. The project
includes monitoring, on-going evaluation, increased
technical assistance and community involvement, to foster a
more efficient institutional environment. It does not
include some important rural development activities, such
as land tenure improvement, health, and education.
Regional projects for health and education are currently



- ii -
under preparation; a Northeast Land Tenure Improvement
Project will be submitted to the Executive Directors
shortly. While efforts have been made to coordinate the
planning and implementation of all those projects, the
execution and expected benefits of the proposed project are
not directly dependent on the implementation of the
sectoral projects. Recurring drought conditions present
considerable risks to small farmers and to expected
benefits under the project. Decreasing drought-related
risks for small farmers has influenced overall project
design, especially in the areas of water resource
development and technology generation and diffusion.
Finally, delays and shortfalls in counterpart funding have
posed problems in on-going rural development projects.
Recent changes in funding channels, a new source of
counterpart funds, the consolidation of rural special
programs, and the concentration on key production
constraints should help secure adequate counterpart
funding.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:                                      -US$ Millions
Local      Foreign       Total
A.  Water Resource Development            13.5         4.9         18.4
B.  Agricultural Research                  6.6          .8          7.4
C.  Rural Extension                       27.0         1.9         28.9
D.  Rural Investment Credit               20.2        3.6          23.8
E.  Marketing                              3.2          .8          4.0
F.  Support to Small Rural
Communities                7.6         2.8         10.4
G.  State Project Administration           9.4          .7         10.1
Total Baseline Costs                      87.5        15.5        103.0
Physical Contingencies                     1.7          .7          2.4
Price Contingencies                       26.2        4.6          30.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      115.4       20.8         136.2 11
Financing Plan:                                       USS Millions
Local      Foreign       Total
Government                            74.8        -            74.8
IBRD 2/                               40.6       20.8          61.4
TOTAL                                115.4       20.8         136.2
Estimated Disbursements:                     -US$  Millions --
Bank FY      1986    1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Annual        6.42/   5.5    9.1   10.0   10.0    9.0    7.9    3.5
Cumulative    6.4    11.9   21.0   31.0   41.0   50.0   57.9   61.4
Rate of Return:                             19%
1/ Including about USS6.9 mill.ion of local taxes.
2/ Including initial deposit of $3.4 million into Special Account.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN EQUIVALENT TO $61.4 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A SECOND NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of
US$61.4 million to help finance a Second Northeast Rural Development
Project. The loan would.have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled 'Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum' (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 79 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 when President Joao
Figaeiredo completed his six-year term in office. Its main economic
priorities have included the growth of agriculture, the expansion of
manufactured exports and reduced dependence on imported oil, and at the
same time an improvement in the situation and prospects of the most
economically disadvantaged people and regions, especially in the
Northeast. The prime political concern had been the return to a fully
democratic system of government. Much of the Government's attention, since
1980, had to be diverted from longer-term political and economic change
because of the stabilization problems confronting Brazil. In spite of the
economic recession and consequent social pressures, however, substantial
progress has been made towards the structural changes needed for Brazil's
next stage of development.
4.        The presidential elections held in January 1985 resulted in the
election of Tancredo Neves, who has still to take office. Dr. Neves has
indicated that his Government's principal task will be to restore the
country's economic growth in order to expand employment opportunities,
improve the remuneration of the labor force, and bring about a more



- 2 -
equitable distribution of income. For this growth to be solidly based, he
has stated, would require a reduction in inflation, putting the finances of
the public sector on a sound footing, and maintaining equilibrium in the
external accounts.
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% annual growth in GDP in the
years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a significant
liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further substantial
growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual average rate
of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the large increases
in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international recession,, and the
sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive Brazilian governments
sought to maintain output and employment growth through policies
characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for industrial and
agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import barriers;
investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the
expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign borrowing. Between 1975
and 1980, Brazil's medium and long-term debt more than doubled from US$23.3
billion to US$54.9 billion. The efforts to redress the external imbalance
after 1974 created strong internal pressures and increased inflation. The
economy remained vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases
in oil prices occurred in 1979 and 1980, and interest rates increased, the
current account deficit more than doubled to reach US$12.4 billion, or 5.0%
of GDP. Domestic inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of 1.9% in GDP in 1981, ending the long period of
sustained growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination
of external developments, including declining world commodity prices,
economic problems among some major trading partners, and regional events
leading to the debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its
reserves, the reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or
extend new credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought
assistance from the International Monetary Fund in support of an
intensified adjustment program. In February 1983 the IMF pledged financial.
assistance of the order of US$5.4 billion in compensatory financing and
through the Extended Fund Facility for the years 1983-85. Associated with
this were commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new
loans, the rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loans due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support, which were later extended into 1984.
7.        The primary objective of the program was the reduction of the
current account deficit and external borrowing requirements. The cruzeiro
was devalued by 30% in February 1983 and subsequently adjusted in line with
domestic inflation, import restrictions were increased, and tight fiscal
and monetary restraints were imposed. Imports fell by 21% in 1983, and
exports increased by 8.5% in spite of adverse trading circumstances,
resulting in a trade surplus of US$6.5 billion and a reduction in the
current account deficit from US$14.8 billion to US$6.2 billion. The major



-3-
source of internal disequilibrium, the public sector deficit, was also
brought under control. Central Bank figures show that the consolidated
operational public sector deficit was reduced from 6.6Z of GDP in 1982 to
2.5% in 1983, with a small surplus expected in 1984. In addition, steps
were taken to eliminate product and interest rate subsidies, adjust
relative prices for fuel and other products, reduce public expenditures and
increase revenues. The adjustment process continued during 1984, and,
although inflation has remained high, substantial progress was made towards
establishing a new basis for growth. In particular, strong export
expansion during 1984 resulted in earnings in excess of US$26 billion and a
trade surplus amounting to over US$12 billion.
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments has nevertheless been
high. Inflation reached 211X in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by shortages
in the supply of tradable goods, increases in administered prices, very
high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. Preliminary
official estimates show a decline in GDP of 3.2% in 1983, concentrated in
the industrial and commercial sectors. On that basis, per capita GDP
declined by about 12% in 1981-83, and industrial employment by over 20%,
with the largest reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the
main industrial centers.
9.       Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1964 is estivated to
have grown on the order of 4%, or about 2% per capita. The increase in
manufacturing exports is assisting industrial recovery, despite the fact
that for most sectors the proportion of total output which is exported
remains relatively small. Overall expansion is still inhibited by
depressed domestic market conditions, however, which can be expected to
continue until there is some relaxation in the present austere demand
management policies. In particular, recovery is not likely to become
generalized until real interest rates fall from their present levels of
30-40%. Unless significant progress is made against inflation, which
totaled 224% in 1284, the outlook is for domestic market conditions to
improve only slowly.
Economic Outlook
10.      The short-term economic outlook for Brazil appears much more
encouraging than that of a year ago. The balance-of-payments situation is
much stronger, some signs of recovery from the domestic recession are
apparent, and inflation is no longer accelerating. In addition, the
international economic situation appears more encouraging, with at least a
temporary easing of interest rates and oil prices. 1/ The international
financial environment also appears more accommodating than a year ago.
11.       The immediate prospects for the balance of payments appear quite
favorable following the trade surplus of over US$12 billion obtained for
1984. Although total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much
of this surplus resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US
dollars, total exports for the first eleven months were 23% greater than in
the same period in 1983; the comparable increase for industrial exports was
1/ Over three quarters of Brazil's external debt carries variable interest
rates, or is short-term, so that a change of 1% in average interest
rates means a balance-of-payments gain or loss of about US$750 million.
Similarly, a dollar per barrel change in average annual oil prices
has an impact of about US$300 million on the trade balance.



- 4 -
35%. Reflecting the favorable trade performance, Brazil's international
reserve position has also improved markedly.
12.       Inflation is no longer accelerating, but reducing it under the
current system of indexation and in the context of very resilient
inflationary expectations is proving to be exceedingly difficult.
Indexation, while making it difficult to reduce inflation, does of course
mitigate some of the adverse economic and social effects commonly
associated with inflation. A major challenge for the new Government will
be to restore confidence and, in doing so, dampen inflationary
expectations. To acconplish this, a comprehensive and consistent
medium-term strategy and a clearly stated and credible economic program
will be essential.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       The medium-term economic prospects for Brazil are generally
encouraging, assuming the continuation of the recovery now becoming
evident. This recovery depends, however, both upon the economic policies
pursued by the Government and a number of external economic conditions
outside the control of Brazilian policy-makers. Tne level of international
interest rates, oil prices, continued recovery in the OECD, the avoidance
of additional trade barriers for Brazil's exports, and the willingness of
the international commercial banks to increase their nominal exposures are
all critical for Brazil. At the same time, much will also depend upon the
conduct of national economic policies by the incoming Government. The
present situation requires a comprehensive and integrated, medium-term,
strategy for structural adjustment and economic recovery. This strategy
should focus on greater production efficiency, an improved allocation of
economic resources, reduced inflation, increased investment and savings,
further export promotion, and a reduced reliance on external borrowing.
14.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions relating to the
international environment, and the projected domestic economic recovery,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. The
resource balance has turned positive with the large trade surpluses of 1983
and 1984. The current account deficit, which amounted to US$6.2 billion in
1983 (equal to about 3% of GDP), turned into a small surplus in 1984. The
debt, therefore, will grow at much more modest rates than in the past.
Total medium and long-term debt is projected to grow, in nominal terms, at
an annual rate of 4.8% from 1983 to 1990, below the projected rate of
international inflation. The projections assume that gross disbursements
would rise from US$14 billion in 1985 to about US$22 billion in 1990, in
current prices, and amortization from US$10 billion to about US$15 billion
in the same period, with net disbursements averaging approximately US$6
billion annually. For private M&LT debt, the projections are consistent



- 5 -
with reductions of total real commercial bank exposure in Brazil and a
reduced share of Brazilian loans in total commercial bank lending
portfolios. Nevertheless, continued new lending will be required for the
foreseeable future.
15.       Creditworthiness indicators for Brazil would improve
substantially over the projection period. The total debt service ratio is
projected to fall from 82% in 1983 to a plateau of 69-70% for 1984-86, and
then decline gradually to about 46% in 1990. In the absence of any further
rescheduling, there would be an amortization bulge in 1986. The total
external debt as a multiple of total goods and non-factor service exports
is projected to decline continually, after having reached a high of 3.9 in
1982. By 1990 the ratio is projected to have fallen to 2.0.
16.       One striking feature of the balance-of-payments projections is
the magnitude of the projected net financial medium- and long-term resource
transfers (excess of interest over net new borrowing) from Brazil to its
creditors. This transfer would amount to almost US$8 billicn in 1985. The
net resource transfer over the entire projection period would average 3Z of
GDP annually. Even with these transfers, however, economic growth of a
reasonable magnitude could occur.
17.       Base case projections, with the component sectors of GDP
projected on the basis of assumed economic policies and individual sectoral
prospects, show a gradual recovery from 1985 on, with GDP growth increasing
from a projected 4.3% in 1985 to 6.6% in 1989. Throughout the 1984-90
period an average increase in real per capita consumption of 3.0Z annually
is projected. Even so, it would not be until 1989 that the 1980 level of
per capita income would be restored.
18.       Alternative projections assuming a more vigorous pursuit of
export promotion policies produce more favorable results suggesting the
possibility, with eased foreign exchange constraints, of GDP growth
exceeding 7% a year by 1990. On the other hand, adverse changes in the
LIBOR, oil prices, and particularly in export growth (whether through
restraints by trading partners, adverse international economic conditions,
or inappropriate domestic economic policies) could undermine and delay the
recovery.
19.       Any projection results must be viewed cautiously because of the
enormous uncertainties regarding future international market conditions.
Nevertheless, some conclusions may be drawn. First, the success of
Brazilian development strategy over the foreseeable future will depend upon
the country's success in expanding exports. Second, given the seriousness
of the erternal constraints, Brazil's economic growth over the period
1984-90 will be more modest than during the 1970s. Third, to sustain that
more modest rate of growth will require both a continued net inflow of
external financing, at least in nominal terms, and a greatly improved
savings effort from the domestic economy. Finally, despite the clear



- 6 -
difficulties and risks inherent in the current situation, Brazil has the
economic strength, with the support of its lenders, to work its way out of
the present liquidity situation and resume a satisfactory rate of growth
while continuing to meet its international obligations. Thus, Brazil
should remain creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the
magnitudes indicated above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
20.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government over the past decade has made substantial
efforts to relieve poverty. The educational system has been rapidly
expanded, giving rise to increased enrollment rates and reduced
illiteracy. Social security programs have been strengthened and extended
to rural areas, and upgrading and expanding health services for the poor
have received much Government attention. Increased Government efforts have
also been directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the
improved provision of water and sewerage services. In part as a reflection
of these and other programs, there are indications, based upon preliminary
estimates from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial living standard
and welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real
income gains were realized by all income decile groups. Non-income gains,
as reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade. Given the
impact of present economic difficulties on output and employment, however,
there is a possibility that some of these gains could have been seriously
eroded in the present crisis. Slow growth in employment opportunities, at
the rates of GDP growth currently postulated for the 1980s, emerges as a
potentially sericus problem.  Large unemployment and underemployment would
persist well after the recession, unless strategies favoring more
labor-intensive activities or technologies are pursued.
PART II - BAIIK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By Sepcember 30, 1984 the Bank had made 134 loans to Brazil,
amounting to TTS$9,725.3 million (net of cancellations), of which 69 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
US$764 mi.lion in FY83, and US$1,405.0 million in FY84. The undisburRed
amount as of September 30, 1984 was US$3,782.9 million. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments.
22.       Over the FY77-83 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$1,457 million per year. In FY84, 10 loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. They were US$52.7 million for
a market towns improvement project in the State of Parana, US$352 million
for an export development project, US$303 million for an agricultural
credit and export development project, US$65.2 million for the third phase



-7-
of the Northwest region development program, US$222.8 million for a rural
electrification project, US$250.6 million for a power distribution project,
US$20.0 million for a technician training project, US$40.0 million for an
urban basic education project in the North-Centerwest regions, US$210
million for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the federal highway
network, US$55.5 million for basic health care in the State of Sao Paulo
and US$2.0 million for national health studies. In addition, a total of
US$30.5 million of supplemental financing for on-going agricultural and
rural development projects was approved in FY84. Two loans totalling
US$372.0 million have been approved so far for Brazil in FY85. They were a
US$300.0 million loan for a third development banking project and a US$72.0
million loan for a science and technology project. Work is advanced for a
second agricultural sector project, for a technical assistance and pilot
rural water supply and sanitation project,. for the electric power sector,
and for a land titling project.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$81 billion at the
end of 1983. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.3% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 3.5Z.
24.       As of September 30, 1984, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,019.53 million, of which US$662.20 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$357.33 million, US$278.79 million
represent loans and US$78.54 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of September 30, 1984 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
26.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983, are
being reflected in our operations. These include working capital financing
under the third agro-industries project, financing of a higher share of
project costs of recently approved projects in social sectors, supplemental
financing amounting to US$30.5 million for two on-going agricultural and
rural development projects, and amending existing loans where warranted to
provide for higher Bank disbursement rates during the period covered by the
Bank's Special Action Progran.  Also, greater use is being made of Pioject
Special Accounts into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to



- 8 -
reduce the need for the Government to prefinance Bank's share of project
costs, and which allow disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the
exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES aimed at
strengthening industrial development along these lines have already been
made. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade policies in support of Government initiatives, have
been approved by the Executive Directors. Follow-up loans designed to
support the next steps in this adjustment process are under preparation.
Given agriculture's large potential contribution to export growth and
inport substitution, adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's
transition from stabilization to growth.
28.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Further
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing Government subsidies to the energy sector.
29.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary
education, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural
extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects throughout Brazil, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, and three loans for urban development in two metropolitan
areas, in medium-sized cities, and in small market towns, are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor. Following up on a nutrition research and development
project and a first health project for the northwest region, a basic health
care project in the state of Sao Paulo and a national health studies
project are helping promote efficiency, cost effectiveness and equity in
the delivery of health services in Brazil. Several projects for rural and
urban development, for health and for rural water supply and sanitation,
directed to the needs of the lowest income groups in the Northeast are
under preparation. The proposed project, the second in a second generation
of rural development projects in the Northeast, is intended to support the
second state plan of rural development, designed to increase the incomes of
small farmers.



- 9 -
30.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil and
would be a prominent feature of the proposed project. The Bank also serves
as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources. Continued lending by
the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as
a sign of confidence in Brazil's development prospects. In some sectors,
especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped
Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts from bilateral credit
agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have been
provided. Since 1976 througl-t June 30, 1982, ten cofinancing operatit.as for
about US$560 million have been arranged and signed with private financial
institutions. Cofinancing opportunities are rather limited in Brazil for
the time being, as the volume and terms of commercial bank financing
available to Brazil are determined within the framework of the debt
rescheduling package. Cofinancing could become more important in the near
future, however, and as evidenced by the recently approved Bank
participation in a syndicated guarantee facility for the Carajas Iron Ore
Project (Loan 2196-BR), the new cofinancing instruments developed by the
Bank could play a role iP encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil
with better financing terrs and possibly additional lending for high
priority projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
31.       Although its relative importance in the Brazilian economy has
declined, agriculture remains an important sector, employing about 30% of
the labor force and contributing about 11% to the GDP and about 38% to
total export earnings (1982). During the 1970s, the gross value of
agricultural production grew at an annual rate of nearly 5%. Since 1980,
however, the value of agricultural output has declined, reflecting lower
international commodity prices, adverse domestic pricing policies,
unfavorable climatic conditions, and a restricted agricultural credit
supply. Per capita production of basic foods, such as maize, beans, rice,
and manioc, has also fallen. In most years, Brazil has remained
self-sufficient in food, except for wheat. However, periodic imports of
beans, maize, and rice have occurred, particularly in bad crop years.
32.       In recent years, the share of agricultural lands devoted to
industrial and export crops (sugarcane, cocoa, soybeans, citrus, and
tobacco) has risen sharply. Brazil is the world's largest producer of
coffee and sugarcane, the second largest of soybeans, and the largest
exporter of coffee and orange juice. The changing structure of
agricultural production reflects the fact that most productivity gains,
expansion of production area, and increased market integration have
occurred in the South and Centerwest, while the North and Northeast have
largely continued to follow traditional agricultural practices. Because of
the sector's key role in curbing inflation and improving the balance of



- 10 -
payments, the Government has shown a continuing strong commitment to
agricultural development.2/
The Rural Northeast
33.       The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui,
Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe and
Bahia, as well as the federal territory of Fernando do Noronha and the
northern portion of the State of Minas Gerais (Map IBRD 18480). Its total
area is over 1.5 million kim2, over 18% of the country's total area. The
Northeast has been viewed as the nation's foremost problem region since the
late 1800s. The country's wealthiest region during the colonial period, it
subsequently lagged behind as industrial, agricultural and commercial
activity shifted to the south.
34.       Drought and uncertain rainfall, a highly skewed land
distribution, and limited urban employment opportunities have resulted in
high levels of poverty and underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million
people migrated from the Northeast. The large number of recent migrants is
at least partially the result of a severe drought which affected large
areas of the Northeast from 1978 to 1983. In 1980, the Northeast had a
total population of 35 million (about 29% of the national total) growing at
2.2% per annum and an average population density of 22.5 inhabitants per
km2. About one-half of the population lives in rural areas, and over 50%
of the regional work force is engaged in agricultur.. Rural incomes are
very low. As of 1980, over 80% of the rural population earned one minimum
salary (about US$675 annually) or less, a little over 35% of the national
average, and the poorest 50% received only about 10% of total regional
income.
35.       The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total w lue of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities, including
sisal, manioc, sugar and cotton, represent significant shares of national
production. The zona da mata, a narrow, fertile, coastal strip, contains
one-third of the regional population and a major proportion of industry and
plantation agriculture (largely sugarcane and cocoa). The agreste is a
transitional zone contiguous with semi-arid areas, dominated by mixed
farming for the domestic market as well as the raising of beef and dairy
cattle. The sertao, comprising some 750,000 km2, but only sparsely
populated, is the largest of the sub-regions and the most vulnerable to
periodic droughts. Ownership of agricultural land throughout the Northeast
is highly concentrated; about 70% of farm establishments are under 10 ha
and occupy less than 6% of total farm area. At the same time, farms over
500 ha (1% of the total) account for more than 40% of all farm area.
2/ For further discussion on the agricultural sector, see A Review of
Agricultural Policies in Brazil, September 11, 1981, Report
No. 3305-BR.



- 11 -
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
36.       Until the 19509, most Government interventions in the rural
Northeast were limited to drought relief works and emergency programs and
to incentives for export crops grown on larger farms. The slow pace of
socioeconomic development and the need for improved regional planning led
to the creation in 1959 of the Superintendency for Development of the
Northeast (SUDENE), first linked to the Presidency and later transferred to
the Ministry of Interior. SUDENE was originally responsible for the
coordination of all public investment activities, drought emergency
measures, and powerful fiscal and credit incentives to attract new private
investment. Initiative for regional policy formulation was transferred
back from SUDENE to the Federal Ministries in the 1970s, and SUDENE
experienced a series of institutional difficulties. However, SUDENE
continued to play an important role in the coordination of federally funded
rural special programs implemented during the 1970s and early 1980s.
37.       The rural special programs have followed two approaches.  The
first is based on the integrated development of selected subregions and is
focussed on specific target groups. Programs following this approach
include the Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the Northeast
(POLONORDESTE), the Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast (SERTANEJO), and the Special Program of
Support for Poor Populations of the Sugar-Growing Zones (PROCANOR). The
second approach is largely concerned with alleviating the effects of the
recurring droughts. Several parallel programs, including the Water
Resources Use Program (PROHIDRO), the Semi-Arid Tropics Research Program
(TSA), and the Drought Emergency Relief Program, as well as large federal
public irrigation projects, have attempted to increase the productive use
of scarce water resouces or to provide temporary drought relief assistance.
38.       Planning of a major new development initiative for Brazil's
Northeast began in 1982, stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate
contribution of the special programs and federal irrigation projects in
alleviating rural poverty and underemployment had been limited. The
exercise resulted in a new rural development strategy to be implemented
through a series of sectoral projects in such areas as health, education,
and federal irrigation, and a regionwide integrated rural development
program. The Northeast Rural Development Program is a 15-year program
based upon a comprehensive regional policy framework, a set of sub-sectoral
strategy guidelines, and multiyear state rural investment plans. While
borrowing from past experience, the program has several innovative aspects,
including the integration of all rural special programs with unified
planning and implementation procedures.
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
39.       The Bank has so far made 30 loans, totalling US$1,803.5 million,
for agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These in_lude one
agricultural credit and export loan for US$303.0 million and cne



- 12 -
supplemental financing loan for US$30.5 million, both under the Special
Action Program; three, amounting to US$519.2 million, for agroindustries;
two, totalling US$60.5 million, for livestock development; one for US$18.2
milliont for grain storage; two, amounting to US$100 million for
agricultural research; one for US$100 million for agricultural extension;
and 19, totalling US$672.1 million, for various settlement, irrigation and
rural development projects, 13 of which are located in the Northeast3/,
two in Minas Gerais, and four in the North and Northwest. A Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project, which would increase land tenure
security and identify lands for subsequent redistribution to small farmers,
will be submitted to the Executive Directors shortly. Completion and
Project Performance Audit Reports for the Alto Turi Land Settlement Project
located in the Northeast showed that the project raised settler incomes
beyond expectations, but was less successful in the areas of environmental
protection, community organization, and strengthening of cooperatives. A
recent Project Completion Report for an irrigation project in the Northeast
showed that despite implementation delays due to design changes and social
tension in the area, beneficiaries' net incomes increased beyond original
estimates, and small farmers were capable of moving successfully from
subsistence to commercial agriculture.
40.       Ten of the Bank-financed projects are POLONORDESTE rural
development projects located in eight Northeast states (para. 33).
Approved from 1976 to 1983, all of the projects are still being executed,
except the Rio Grande do Norte Rural Developmenat Project (Loan 1195-BR).
Project implementation has generally improved over the years especially in
planning, coordination, and execution. Although no final evaluation
results are yet available, production and productivity increases in
non-drought years have been noted among farmers with secure land tenure in
a number of projects, including those in the States of Sergipe, Piaui, and
Paraiba. Nonetheless, all of the projects have experienced implementation
and disbursement delays. A number of factors are responsible: the
unusually severe and prolonged drought; shortages and delays in counterpart
funding and rural credit provision; limited execution capacity for land
tenure improvement and small-scale irrigation activities; initial lags in
the generation of drought-resistant technology for small farmers; weak
coordination between research and extension agencies; and limited
beneficiary participation in project planning and implementation. The lack
of unified planning and coordination for all the rural special programs
exacerbated these problems in some areas, leading to duplication of efforts
and competition for relatively scarce funds and trained personnel. When
possible, these problems have been addressed during the preparation of the
Northeast Rural Development Program. The Rio Grande do Norte Rural
Development Project was partially financed by a $12 million Bank Loan (No.
1195-BR) approved in FY76. Experience with the project was generally
consistent with that of the other POLONORDESTE projects. The project had
the objective of raising incomes for about 16,000 farm families. Many of
the project's physical targets were met, although implementation and
disbursement delays occurred. Preliminary studies to be included in the
post-project evaluation indicate that production gains were less than
originally expected, largely as a result of the prolona^ed drought.
3/ A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank
Country Study, "Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development
Programs for the Northeast," Washington, D.C., 1983.



- 13 -
Nonetheless, the project succeeded in strengthening state institutional
capabilities, and the services and infrastructure it supported provide an
essential foundation for future state rural development efforts.
The State of Rio Grande do Norte
Location, Natural Features, and Socioeconomic Conditions
41.       Location and Natural Features.  Rio Grande do Norte, one of the
smallest states in Brazil, is bordered on the north and east by the
Atlantic Ocean, on the south of the State of Paraiba, and on the west by
the State of Ceara (Map IBRD 11684R). Most of its 53,000 km2 are
predominantly level to gently rolling; only a few mountainous areas have
elevations higher than 700 m. Less than 20% of the state is considered
suitable for cropping, with another 75Z which could potentially be used for
pasture. Igneous and metamorphic rock formations cover most of the
interior, resulting in generally shallow and impermeable soils.
Underground water aquifers are rare and frequently saline. Sedimentary
rock in the coastal areas support deeper and more permeable soils where two
important aquifers, the Acu and the Jandaria, are located. The coastal
areas have a sub-humid climate and an average annual rainfall of over 1,400
mm. Moving west and northward, average rainfall declines rapidly, falling
to 500-700 mm in the semi-arid agreste and below 500 mm in the sertao.
Average annual temperature is 27°C. Evapotranspiration levels of 1500 mm
or more are frequent in the agreste and sertao, and much of the inland area
has a water deficit lasting from 8-12 months. Rainfall is irregular and
te.nids to be concentrated in a few brief storms, resulting in high rates of
erosion, water loss, and in some cases, moisture stress in the intervals
between rains. The state has a major river system, the Piranha-Acu, and
several secondary systems. Few of the state's water resources are
currently being used for irrigation.
42.       Social and Economic Conditions.  The state's population is nearly
2 million and is growing at an estimated annual rate of 2%. Population
density is 36 persons/sq km. About 58% of the population lives in urban
centers, of which Natal, the state capital, is the largest. Migration from
rural areas has resulted in the rapid growth of the Natal metropolitan area
and small and medium-sized cities. Accompanying the rural exodus, the
proportion of the work force engaged in agriculture declined from 69% in
1960 to 38Z in 1980. State per capita income is about US$800 (1980), close
to the average for the Northeast as a whole. Rural incomes are much lower,
averaging about US$200 per capita. Illiteracy, high infant mortality
rates, intestinal diseases, and malnutrition are widespread in rural areas.
Agricultural Production and Services
43.       Production and Land Tenure.  Although there are some areas where
cropland is underutilized, the area of land in crops, about 1.1 million ha,
exceeds the area considered suitable for cropping, about 0.9 million ha.
Cotton (annual and perennial) is by far the most important crop. Other
major crops include sugarcane, cashews, beans, manioc, maize, coconut and



- 14 -
bananas. Along with livestock production, nearly as important economically
as crop production, the major crops account for about 90% of the total
value of agricultural production. Production of sugarcane and cashews,
mainly grown on larger farms in more humid areas, is expanding, as a result
of favorable market conditions and the use of modern technology. Nearly
all basic food crops and a large part of the cotton crop are grown on small
farms. Small farms under 50 ha account for 87% of farm establishments, but
only 17% of farmland. Conversely, about 7% of the farms are over 500 ha,
but control 44% of farm lands. While the majority of farms are owned by
their operators, about one-fifth of the farms are operated by farmers who
hold no legal title to the land. Another fifth are operated by renters or
sharecroppers. In addition to insecure land tenure and lack of access to
land, intensive cropping on unsuitable lands and the generally low level of
technology result in low average yields for most crops. The state's
vulnerability to the effects of drought further increases the risks for
small producers.
44.       Rural Development and Agricultural Services.  The major portion
of investment in rural areas is federally funded by POLONORDESTE, PROCANOR'
and SERTANEJO programs. A number of government entities provide services
and promote agricultural development. EMPARN, the State Agricultural
Research Company, has a central station in Natal, two regional stations in
Caico and Mossoro, and 10 substations or field offices. Research on
perennial cotton, basic food crops, shrimp, sheep and goats, and basic seed
production are among the major ongoing programs. Technical assistance is
provided to farmers by the State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Company (EMATER-RN), through its network of 8 regional and 94 local
offices. The extension service is considered one of the best in the
Northeast, but still requires improvement, particularly among small farmers
in the drier areas and those utilizing small-scale irrigation. The State
Development Bank (BANDERN), the Bank of the Northeast of Brazil (BNB), and
the Bank of Brazil (BB) provide credit to farmers. Although the present
banking network is considered adequate, the availability of official credit
has been limited in recent years. The State Agricultural Development
Company (CIDA-RN) is engaged in a variety of activities, including input
supply, crop purchasing, and more recently, irrigation activities.
Cooperatives are also active in input supply. The State Water Company
(CAERNO and the State Company for Mineral Development (CDM), which drills
wells, are responsible for rural water supply. COBAL, the Federal Food
Company, is active in food retailing and wholesaling in rural and urban
areas. Previously, a division with the State Secretariat of Agriculture
was engaged in land regularization and titling, but these activities have
been transferred to INTERN, the newly created State Land Institute. The
State Agricultural Planning Foundation (CEPA-RN) is responsible for
agricultural planning, studies, and coordination of the state POLONORDESTE
program.
45.       The Priority Areas.  Within the state, five sub-areas have been
chosen to receive priority attention for small farmer development. These
areas include 42 of the 74 nunicipalities in Sergipe and account for 90% of
farms with less than 50 ha and most of the state's production of food



- 15 -
crops. The areas were selected with the objective of accelerating
development where small farmers and basic food crop production predominate,
but where there is still considerable underdeveloped agricultural potential
and a need for improved services. The areas selected have also been
subject to prior cadastral and land titling operations or would receive
priority attention under the proposed Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
46.       The Northeast Rural Development Program presents a renewed
opportunity for the Bank to further its poverty alleviation and
institution-building objectives in Northeast Brazil, initiated with the
Bank-financed integrated rural development projects (paras. 39 and 40).
The region's continued vulnerability to drought, concentration of land
ownership, and the common problems detected in the ongoing projects
convinced both the Government and the Bank that a unified regional approach
was needed. The lessons learned from the on-going projects and the
experience acquired by state and local institutions make such an approach
possible. The proposed regional program seeks a decrease in direct Bank
involvement in project preparation, appraisal and supervision. A series of
Bank loans in support of the regional program is under consideration. The
first loans would assist in the establishment of the regional program
structure and support investment plans in specific states. It is expected
that subsequent Bank lending would become more programmatic in nature, with
much of the detailed project appraisal performed by Brazilian institutions.
47.       The Federal Government requested Bank assistance in preparing the
rural development program in August 1982. SUDENE was delegated the
technical responsibility for regional program preparation. Preparation
assistance was provided by federal and state technicians, the FAO[World
Bank Cooperative Program, and the 9ank. The proposed project was appraised
during June/July 1984 and loan negotiations were held in February 1985. A
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5349-BR) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
Objectives
48.       The main objectives of the proposed project would be:
(a) to increase, in the State of Rio Grande do Norte, agricultural
production, productivity and incomes and standards of living of
(i) about 35,000 farm families, with access to not more than 100
ha. of land each, which will carry out on-farm improvements or
benefit from off-farm public irrigation; and (ii) about 70,000
farm families which will participate in comnunity sub-projects or
benefit from improved marketing or water supply systems; and



- 16 -
(b) to improve public administration services required for the
project.
49.       The above objectives are consistent with the Bank's strategy
for the economically disadvantaged Northeast (paras. 25, 29 above), and
seem particularly timely during a period of reduced growth expectations
(paras. 19-20 above).
Project Description and Detailed Features
50.       The project would consist essentially in the carrying out of the
Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Plan. Coordination of planning,
supervision and agricultural research of this project on a regional basis
would be part of the Northeast Rural Development Program which would be
financially supported by the Bank through a proposed loan for a first
Northeast Rural Development ProJect, submitted to the Executive Directors
simultaneously with this project.
51.       The project would include the following activities:
(a) Water Resource Development: (i) construction of four
state-managed public irrigation schemes, totalling about 4,250 ha
and benefiting some 4,250 farm families; (ii) upgrading of the Caico fish
hatchery station and construction of another at Baixo Acu to reach an
annual production of 2.7 million fingerlings; (iii) feasibility studies of
areas with irrigation potential and, if justified by such studies,
construction of one or two additional small state-mnaged public irrigation
schemes; (iv) construction of about 150 simple water supply systems,
benefiting about 50,000 people in communities with less than 500
inhabitants, selected on the basis of per-capita investment costs and the
comminity's willingness to obtain water supply service; (v) strengthening
of CIDA-RN's institutional capacity; and (vi) a pilot program to build
about 100 private small dams in farms located in the Sao Paulo Potengi-Joao
Camara area. Studies financed by the Bank in connection with the first
rural development project in Rio Grande do Norte (para. 40 above)
demonstrated the potential of these small dams to decrease drought-related
production risks for small farmers. Because of the relatively high
investment costs of the dams and related structures and equipment (about
US$6,500 each) they could not be afforded by the average small farmer. The
pilot program would seek to develop a model dam which is technically
efficient and financially affordable. In order to encourage farmer
participation in the pilot program - which would be conducted by EMAIER-RN
- 50% of the initial investment costs would be met by government grants and
the other 50% thrcugh investment credit which is also a project component.
In addition, about 1,000-2,000 ha of individual private irrigation systems,
about 3,500 cisterns and about 600 communal ponds to provide water forhuman
and animal consumption would also be financed under the rural investment
credit component.
(b) Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production: Research would
be directed towards low-cost technologies to make farms more resistant to
droughts. This component would include: (i) natural resource studies to



- 17 -
identify major research problems; (ii) about 260 short- and medium-term
crop research trials, at station level, with emphasis on cultivation
practices, fertilizer response, and variety performance; (iii) about 55
farm-level observation units to test and adapt production systems; (iv)
improvement of planting materials; and (v) a foundation flock of about 45
goats and sheep to provide breeding stock for small farmers.
(c) Rural Extension would include; (i) improving and equipping
about 19 local offices; (ii) establishment of about 1,850 demonstration
plots; (iii) hiring of about 240 agricultural extension agents and 100
social extension workers, about 50 specialists and supervisory and
administrative staff; (iv) acquisition of vehicles, and (v) training.
(d) Rural Investment Credit: The project would provide medium- and
long-term credit. Funds would be channelled through the Central Bank to
the three official banks operating in rural areas: BB, BNB, and BDRN.
Financing for on-farm investments would cover up to 100Z of investment
costs (sugarcane, automobiles, and irrigation schemes larger than 4 ha
would not be eligible) with a maximum repayment period of 12 years and a
maximum grace period of 6 years. A farmer's total liabilities would not be
allowed to exceed 1000 ORTNS (about US$8,000).4/ Cooperatives also would
be eligible for investment credit if 70% of their members were small
farmers directly benefiting from the investment. Assurances have been
received that these criteria would be applied (Sec. 3.01 (f) through (h),
draft Loan Agreement). Approximately 14,250 farmers (40% of direct
beneficiaries), are expected to receive investment credit. A greater
number would receive short-term production credit, to be financed by the
Government.
(e) Marketing: This component would include: (i) training courses
in post-harvest handling, storage, and marketing for extension and
marketing agents, cooperatives staff, project coordination personnel, and
farmers; (ii) organizing a marketing information and commercial orientation
service for small farmers; (iii) infrastructural and organizational
improvements for about nine municipal markets and fairs; and (iv) expansion
of Rede Somar, a food wholesaling service for private retailers.
(f) Support to Small Rural Communities: This component would
facilitate farmers' participation in the project and provide additional
employment. The project would include: ti) creation of a community
development fund of about US$11.8 million to make grants for local
sub-projects; (ii) hiring about 25 community development (CD) agents, 5
regional supervisors and 5 senior advisors; and (iii) training and
procurement of vehicles and equipment. The State Secretariat for
Government Affairs (SPAG) would be the executing agency while CEPA-RN,
designated as the project's State Coordinating Unit (SCJ) (see
sub-paragraph (g) below) would administer the fund. Identification,
planning and execution of sub-projects would be carried out by farmers'
groups, associations, syndicates and cooperatives. CD agents would
disseminate information on the fund and give advice on technical and
4/   Readjusted Obligations of the National Treasury (ORTNs) are the
primary vehicle for long-term government borrowing and the principal
public debt instrument in recent years.



- 18 -
administrative matters with back-up from other state agencies. Written
proposals explaining objectives, benefits expected, method of
implementation, and group cost-sharing (in cash or in kind), would be
submitted for approval to Municipal or Community Councils (MC) comprised of
elected village and municipal officials. Sub-project eligibility would
depend on its being (i) wholly managed and implemented by the group, with
technical assistance, as needed; (ii) self-sustaining and benefiting the
whole group; and (iii) not financed by other project components or
government programs. Three categories of eligible sub-projects and their
respective shares of the fund have been established: up to 15% for
training (v.g. legal aspects, accounting, operation and maintenance of
investments) and for legal assistance to beneficiaries' groups on land
related matters; not less than 60Z for economic sub-projects (v.g.
handicraft enterprises, tree nurseries, fish ponds); and up to 25% for
communal infrastructure (v.g. small storage units, laundry facilities).
Once sub-projects are approved by an MC, they would be turned down only if
they did not conform to the guidelines. No limit would be placed on
individual grants, because the amounts required in each case are expected
to be small, but yearly limits for each of the priority areas have been
set. For each approved sub-project, a written agreement would be signed
between the SCU and the association or, in cases of unincorporated groups,
by the municipality on behalf of the group, with funds channelled through
the municipality. Assurances were received that no funds would be released
prior to the signing of the agreement (Schedule 1, para. (5)(ii), draft
State Project Agreement).
(g) State Project Administration. The CEPA-RN has been designated as
the SCU and would be responsible for coordinating anu monitoring all
federally funded rural programs within the state and for fully integrating
them under the project. It would consist of a president, assisted by a
small advisory staff, and three directorates for planning, operations
(including five regional administration offices) and administration. Terms
of reference and qualifications of key staff are satisfactory. The project
would finance salaries of about 50 higher-level and related support staff,
travel expenses, equipment, building construction vehicles, consultants for
evaluation and training, and other operating costs. Assurances were
received that the SCU would be staffed and maintained under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (Schedule 1, para. (6), draft State Project
Agreement).
52.       The design of the Northeast Rural Development Program draws upon
successful experiences in the Northeast (paras. 40 and 46 above) to
increase rural development efficiency at state and regional levels. Its
preparation has resulted in regional guidelines for beneficiary selection,
investment strategy, targets and activities, expected benefits and
operating criteria and procedures. The guidelines would be incorporated in
multi-year state rural development plans in all ten Northeast states. The
unification of existing programs, the strengthening of planning and
implementation capabilities and the promotion of beneficiary involvement
have been given priority by all ten Northeast states and by the Federal
Government, and are expected to result in substantial improvements for all
Northeast rural development activities.



- 19 -
Land Tenure Improvement
53.       Secure tenure of land of sufficient quantity and quality are
essential for sustained rural development. The lands required in the State
of Rio Grande do Norte would be identified as part of the surveying and
cadastral activities to be financed under the proposed Northeast Region
Land Tenure Improvement Project (para. 39 above) and subsequently acquired
through purchase or expropriation by the Government. Both projects are
part of the Northeast Rural Development Program; yet the improvement of
land tenure conditions throughout the Northeast is such a vast and complex
task that it justifies a single, region-wide project, rather than a
component in each state rural development project. Activities have been
planned jointly, and coordination mechanisms have been established at the
regional and state levels. Targets (based on need, availability of
suitable land, type of farming planned, and expected Institutional
capabilities), procedures and criteria for land acquisition, allotment, and
beneficiary selection have all been agreed as conditions of the Bank loan
for taie Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project. Accordingly, the
State and Federal Governments have provided assurances that: (a) at least
25,000 ha in the priority areas would be available for redistribution to
project beneficiaries by March 31, 1986; and (b) an additional 75,000 ha in
the priority areas would be available for redistribution to project
beneficiaries by March 31, 1988 (Section 3.01(a) and (c), draft Loan
Agreement; Section 3.03, draft State Project Agreement).
Project Organization and Management
(a) Federal and Regional Levels
54.       An Interministerial Commission (IC), chaired by the
Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior, and comprised of
representatives from the Ministries of Agriculture, Planning, Land,
Finance, and Interior and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has overall policy,
planning and budgeting responsibility for the Northeast Rural Development
Program. SUDENE's SDR, as regional coordinator of the Program, would
receive policy backing through a regional Rural Development Council (RDC)
which includes representatives of all the Northeast states.
(b) State and Local Levels
55.       A State Rural Development Council (SRDC), chaired by the Governor
and including the State Secretaries of Planning, Agriculture, Government
Affairs and Public Works and the President of the CEPA-RN would provide
overall guidance for state rural development activities. The SCU would
coordinate all project activities within the state. It would have its own
budget, salary structure and administrative and personnel procedures and
would be responsible for: (a) coiisolidating executing agencies' annual
plans; (b) supervising their performance and advising the SRDC on
institutional or technical difficulties; (c) monitoring progress and
preparing reimbursement requests; (d) ongoing project evaluation; (e)
providing training on objectives, strategy, and specific implementation



- 20 -
problems; and (t) executing the project's community support component
(para. 51(f) above). The SCU would be structured into a central office and
five regional field offices. Intermunicipal Councils, comprised of
nunicipal representatives and local executing agency staff, would provide a
forum for beneficiary participation in planning and inplementation.
(c) Unification of Rural Special Programs
56.       Improved administrative efficiency and the unification of
Northeast rural programs are central to project strategy and would
eliminate administrative duplication. Accordingly, as a condition for loan
effectiveness, the Government would provide to the Bank evidence that the
planning, budgeting, staffing and adm5. istration for all current regional
ruial special programs have been unified and consolidated within SUDENE's
SDR at the regional level, and within the SCU at the state level, and that
the quantity of SDR staff has been reduced to agreed upon levels (Section
6.01(b), draft Loan Agreement).
(d) Annual Planning and Budgeting
57.       Targets and costs established at appraisal would be adjusted
annually. Once the Federal Government establishes overall funding
availability for the Northeast Rural Development Program for the next year,
state allocations would be established by the SDR in consultation with the
RDC. On this basis, each executing agency would prepare a detailed annual
operating plan. The SCU would consolidate the plans, ensure internal
consistency and submit them for SRDC's and SDR's approvals. The SDR would
consolidate state plans into a regional operating plan, to be presented to
the IC as the basis for a portaria (administrative regulation) signed by
the ministers and legally establishing budget allocations for each state,
CPATSA, and the SDR.
Ce) Accounts and Auditing
58.       Each participating agency would maintain separate accounts for
project expenditures, to be audited annually by the Secretariat of Internal
Control of SEPLAN-PR, according to standard Government practice, which is
acceptable to the Bank. Cop'es of the audit report would be provided to
the Bank within six months following the close of the project's fiscal
year. The Special Account (para. 68 below) would be audited by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank. (Section 4.01, draft Loan Agreement;
Sections 3.01 and 3.02, draft State Project Agreement).
(f) Operating Agreements
59.       Agreements among project coordinating and executing agencies
would be entered into: (a) between SCU and federal agencies; (b) among
executing agencies, with the participaticn of the SCU, when more than one
is involved in executing a project component; and (c) between the SCU or an
executing agency and involved municipalities or groups prior to the
construction of civil works or initiation of a community sub-project.
These agreements would provide execution guidelines and targets, reporting



- 21 -
requirements, inter-agency collaboration procedures and funding conditions
linked to performance. The State and Federal Governments have provided
assurances that they would enter into all necessary agreements not later
than six months after loan signing (Section 3.01(i), draft Loan Agreement;
Section 2.01(b), draft State Project Agreement).
Project Execution
60.       It is estimated that the project will take eight years to be
completed. Some of the participating institutions have participated in
previous Bank projects (v.g. SUDENE, CODEVASF, EMBRAPA, COBAL at the
federal and regional levels; CEASA-RN, CAERN, EMATER-RN, SEPLAN-RN at the
state level) and their strengths and weaknesses are known to the Bank.
Assurances have been received that CIDA-RN would be reorganized in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank prior to disbursement of loan proceeds allocated
for the water resource development component of the project (Schedule 1,
para. 2 (b)), draft Loan Agreement; Schedule 1, para. 1 (a) , draft State
Project Agreement). Others, such as SDR are being established concurrently
with the initiation of the Northeast Rural Development Program. In both
cases, needed actions in organization and staff training have been
identified during project preparation and assurances have been received
that each agency would employ consultants upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank to assist in carrying out such improvements
(Section 3.02, draft Loan Agreement; Schedule 2, Part II, draft State
Project Agreement). The dams for the Serido, Encanto, Santana and Potengi
irrigation subprojects would be subject to periodic review by a panel of
experts which would also review the final design and inspect the
construction of the Serido dam (Section 2.05(b), draft State Project
Agreement). Market improvements (para. 51(e)(iii) above) would be subject
to SUDENE's approval and would not be carried out until the municipality
concerned has signed the corresponding agreement with SCU (Schedule 1,
para. (4), draft State Project Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
61.       Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have been designed to
simplify reporting requirements and to provide information for project
management and annual planning. SCU would receive from executing agencies
monthly reports on key physical and financial indicators, selected among
information already routinely collected by the agencies. SCU would produce
quarterly consolidated monitoring summaries and SDR would produce a
semi-annual monitoring summary for the program as a whole, including
summaries for each state, providing the type of information found in Bank
supervision reports. Assurances have been received that quarterly state
monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank not later than three months
after the end of the respective fiscal quarter (Section 2.01(c), draft
State Project Agreement).
62.       Evaluation would include: (a) ongoing evaluation and special
studies; (b) mid-term evaluation; and (c) post-project evaluation. Crop
surveys to measure production and productivity among beneficiary and



- 22 -
non-beneficiary farmers would be part of ongoing evaluation.  Mid-term and
post-project evalution studies, would be contracted to independent
consulting firms and/or academic inst_tutions acceptable to the Bank.
The State %overnment has provided assurances that terms of reference and
institutional arrangements for the mid-term and post-project evaluations
would be satisfactory to the Bank (Schedule 1, para. (6)(b), draft State
Project Agreement).
Project Cost
63.       The total project cost 1s estimated at $136.2 million equivalent
(February 1985), with a direct and indirect foreign exchange component of
about 15%, based on the assumption that all goods and services would be
acquired in Brazil with the exception of specialized consultants'
services. The cost estimate includes about $6.9 million equivalent in
applicable local taxes. A breakdown of estimated costs is provided in page
iii of the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report.
Physical and price contingencies are equivalent to 2% and 30X of baseline
costs, respectively. Physical contingencies were added to baseline costs
at 15% for irrigation and water supply construction, 10% for other
construction, and 5% for equipment, furniture, vehicles, vehicle operation
and maintenance, training, and incremental operating expenses (excluding
salaries and allowances). Price contingencies were estimated in US dollar
terms, based on international inflation rates estimated at 8.0% for 1985;
9.0% for 1986, 1987 and 1988; 8.0% for 1989; and 6% thereafter. It was
assumed that periodic local currency devaluations, estimated on a
purchasing power parity basis, would compensate for differences between
projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates.
Financing Plan
64.       The amount of the proposed Bank loan would be $61.4 million
equivalent, which would represent 50% of total estimated cost, net of
taxPq and of the estimated costs of civil works for the dam in the Serido
ir .gation scheme (para 51.(a) (i) above) which would be financed
exclusively with Government funds (para. 67 below). The proposed loan
would finance 100% of direct and indirect foreign exchange costs and 35% of
local costs. The proposed contribution is in line with Bank policy
concerning projects in the social sectors (para. 26 above). The loan would
be repayable over 15 years, including 3 years of grace and would bear
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The loan would be made to
the Federative Republic of Brazil which would carry the foreign exchange
risk and provide counterpart funds as necessary to complete the project.
Improvements in funding procedures for Bank-financed agricultural projects
were introduced in conjunction with the Bank's Special Action Program.
They include monthly direct channelling of funds from SEPLAN-PR to a
specific project account in each state for activities executed by state
agencies and directly to federal executing agencies as well as monthly
advances through the Central Bank covering the estimated Bank share of
monthly expenditures. Assurances were received that: (a) the funding
procedures established as part of the Special Action Program would be
adopted for the Northeast Rural Development Program, including the proposed
project; and (b) would not be changed without Bank approval (Sections
3.01(d) and 5.01(c), draft Loan Agreement). Receipt by the Bank of the
administrative regulation (portaria) establishing the funding procedures



- 23 -
for the Program would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01
(c), draft Loan Agreement).
On-Lending Terms
65.       The proceeds of the loan would be made available on a grant
basis, to SUDENE, other participating federal agencies and the State of
Rio Grande do Norte. The Central Bank, would rediscount the sub-loans
provided by the Government-owned participating banks (BB, BNB and
BDRN) which would receive a 4% spread. Rural credit subsidies have long
been an issue in the Bank's dialogue with the Government. A schedule for
achieving full monetary correction for the majority of loans was agreed
upon in February 1983, as part of the discussions for the Agricultural
Credit and Export Development Project (Loan 2348-BR). That schedule has
been adhered to in all areas and even advanced in the Center-South of
Brazil. Because the Northeast is a disadvantaged area and suffered a
prolonged drought, it was agreed that phasing out of subsidies would start
there with the first planting season following the first post-drought
harvest. Accordingly, Interest rates previously at a drought emergency
nominal rate of 35%, would be raised by July 1985 to 85% of monetary
correction plus 3Z interest, and would be maintained in accordance with the
schedule previously agreed upon with the Bank. This reduction in credit
subsidies could limit small farmer credit demand but it is expected that
the effect would be temporary. The remaining subsidies would be financed
by the fiscal budget. Assurances were received that: (a) the Central Bank
would provide sufficient funds to the participating banks to carry out the
project's investment credit component; (b) the Central Bank and the other
participating banks will carry out this component in accordance with the
lending terms and conditions set forth in this paragraph and in para. 51(d)
above; (c) each of the participating banks would provide monthly
information to SUDENE and the SCU on investment credit availability,
demand, and lending per bank agency serving the priority areas; and (d)
priority will be given to monthly allocations of short-term production
credit in adequate amounts to Bank agencies serving project areas (Section
3.01(f) through (h), draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
66.       Current legislation requires that water and other charges to
users of public irrigation be set at such levels as will permit full
recovery of operation and maintenance expenditures and a certain portion of
capital costs. CAERN provides also water supply services to small
communities (up to 500 inhabitants) free of charge; this procedure will be
continued during a transitional period, until 1987, when the National Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Program --now being prepared with Bank
support- is expected to be implemented in the Northeast Region. At that
stage, the communities would assume responsibility for all operational and
maintenance costs. Agreement has been reached that irrigation charges and
water supply policies would be in line with the foregoing (Schedule 1,
paras. (1)(d) and (e), draft State Project Agreement). Funds allocated to
the community support component would be made available to project
beneficiaries on a nonreimbursable basis (see para. 51(f) above).



- 24 -
Procurement
67.       The civil works for the dam in the Serido public irrigation
scheme would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures and financed exclusively with Government funds. This
arrangement is not expected to affect the satisfactory execution of the
project in terms of costs, quality or completion time. All other civil
works would be executed through contracts awarded according to competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Brazil has a competitive local
construction industry which is capable of carrying out project works.
Since the individual works are small and dispersed, foreign contractors are
not expected to be interested, but would not be excluded from bidding.
About $0.2 million worth of well-drilling for community water supply would
be carried out by force account by CDM because contractors in Rio Grande Do
Norte do not have adequate equipment to drill in crystalling formations
prevailing in the project area. In some small community development
sub-projects, the beneficiaries would carry out the works under agreements
with the SCU (para. 51(f) above). Equipment, materials and vehicles
required by the project (about US$9.8 million), almost all locally
produced, would be procured by the several executing agencies at various
locations over the Project implementation period in accordance with
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Consultants'
services for technical assistance, evaluation, and special studies would be
procured locally and internationally in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Any civil works contract estimated to cost US$200,000 or more (except
contracts related to the Serido dam) and goods packages of US$50,000 and
above would be subject to prior Bank review. The table below contains a
synopsis of all procurement arrangements. Assurances have been received
concerning these procurement arrangements (Schedule 2, draft State Project
Agreement). Thus, prior Bank review would cover about 60X and 20% of the
value of civil works and goods, respectively.
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Type of Project                              Procurement Method
Expenditure                                 LCB    Other      N.A.   Total
Civil Works                                   27.4     0.2              27.6
(10.5)   (0.1)            (10.6)
*         Equipment, Vehicles and                        9.8                        9.8
Furniture                                   (4.8)                     (4.8)
Technical Assistance, Training                         5.5               5.5
and Studies                                         (2.7)             (2.7)
Rural Investment Credit                                         31.8    31.8
(16.6)  (16.6)
Salaries and Allowances                                         45.5    45.5
(19.8)  (19.8)
Other Operating Expenses                                        16.0    16.0
(6.9)   (6.9)
T O T A L                      37.2      5.7     93.3   136.2
(15.3)   (2.8)   (43.3)  (61.4)
Note:   Figures in parentheses are the estimated amounts to be financed
by the Bank.



- 25 -
Disbursements
68.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed at a uniform
rate of 47% against all eligible project expenditures (excluding taxes)
until an aggregate amount of US$2.2 million for state research and of
US$9.1 million for extension have been disbursed. Thereafter, disbursement
rates for research and extension, which include a high percentage of
recurrent costs, would be progressively reduced by 5 percentage points each
year. All other categories would be adjusted to result in an overall rate
of 50% financing of total eligible expenditures excluding taxes. In order
to enable project executing agencies to prepare for an early start of
project execution, eligible expenditures incurred prior to loan signing but
after July 18, 1984 (end of project appraisal) would be eligible for
reimbursement up to $2.5 million equivalent. In order to reduce Government
prefinancing requirements, a Special Account would be opened in the Central
Bank, with an initial deposit of up to US$3.4 million. Withdrawals in
Cruzeiros from the Special Account, supported by statements of expenditure
and other required documentation, would be made at the exchange rate that
prevailed on the date of the expenditure. The Central Bank would send the
corresponding statements to the Bank, which would then replenish the
Special Account (draft Loan Agreement, Sections 2.02(b) and 3.01(d)(ii)(A),
and Schedules 1 and 4). Disbursements for all operating expenses would be
made under statements of expenditure from the various executing agencies
and certified by the SCU; supporting documentation would not be submitted
to the Bank, but would be made available for inspection during project
supervision missions. Standard documentation for civil works, vehicles,
equipment, and technical assistance would be submitted to the Bank.
Disbursements are expected to be completed in 8 years which is consistent
with Bank experience with Northeast rural development projects.  In
addition to those listed in paras. 59(c) and 60 above, the Bank's approval
of final designs, resettlement plans and operation and maintenance plans
and the receipt by the Bank of proof of land acquisition, would be
conditions of disbursement of any loan proceeds allocated to finance the
construction of any public irrigation scheme (Schedule 1, para. 2(c), draft
Loan Agreement), except in respect of the Serido irrigation subproject,
where the above approval and receipt would be conditions of loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01(c), draft Loan Agreement).
69.       An amount of $1.0 million equivalent has been set aside to
finance the construction of one or two public irrigation schemes, which
were not sufficiently prepared at appraisal time, to be built if justified
by feasibility studies included in the project (para. 51(a)(iii) above).
If the amount so allocated has not been committed to a specific sub-project
approved by the Bank by December 31, 1987, it would be cancelled (Schedule
1, para. 4, draft Loan Agreement and Schedule 1, para. (l)(c), draft State
Project Agreement).
Project Benefits
70.       Estimated financial rates of return for appraised farm models
range from about 17% to 70% and are mainly a reflection of low current



- 26 -
incomes, low cost a-d rapid return investment packages, and technology
improvements. The introduction of crops better able to resist droughts
would improve yield reliability and income stability. Although cropping
patterns are not expected to change dramatically, farmers would introduce
new and more profitable cash crops and sheep dairy production and forage
crops. The weighted average annual family incooe of project beneficiaries
at full development is estimated at US$2,410 for rainfed farmers and
US$5,560 for farmers with irrigation, representing increases of 197Z and
132%, respectively, over present income levels. Supplemental income, (v.g
off-farm work) has not been taken into account into these estimates.
Monitoring changes in beneficiaries' incomes would be part of the project
(para. 62 above). About one-half of project farmers reside in semi-arid
regions of and are vulnerable to recurring droughts, but two separate
sensitivity analysis (a severe drought during the first 3 years of the
project and a similar drought in years 8, 9 and 10) still showed an
improved situation compared to what it would have been without the project.
71.       The economic rate of return for the project has been estimated at
18%. The cost stream included four elements: (a) all on-farm incremental
investment and operating costs; Cb) 82% of other project costs, (net of
those related to social forestry, the wholesale food supply system, the
fund for unidentified irrigation studies and sub-projects, the community
development component, and community water supply systems); (c) 10% of
regional administration costs and a proportion of regional research costs
corresponding to the proportion of the state's rural population within the
Northeast's; and (d) recurrent regional and state costs on a declining
basis. The evaluation of incremental benefits included: (i) benefits for
farmers expected to use investment credit and for farmers who would be
reached by the extension services; and (ii) increased inland fish
production. Economic prices for traded goods were derived taking into
account international prices. Not all project benefits are accounted for
in the economic rate of return analysis. Research and extension should
result in production increases for other farmers. The expanded
agricultural activity would create new farm employment (some 13,000
man-years annually at full development). Extension, water supply, and
marketing activities would have a beneficial health and nutritional
impact. Strengthened public sector planning and implementation
capabilities would benefit future rural development efforts.
72.       Sensitivity tests showed that the economic rate of return is
fairly insensitive to possible variations in costs and benefits. Project
benefits would need to fall by over 25% or projects costs rise by about 34%
before the rate of return fell below the estimated 11% opportunity cost of
capital. A lag of three years in achieving project benefits, such as might
occur during a severe drought, would result in a 14% rate of return. A
simultaneous lag in costs and benefits such as might occur with an
eight-year disbursement period, would not alter the project's rate of
return.



- 27 -
Project Risks
73.       Although simpler in design than previous rural development
projects in Northeast Brazil, the proposed project depends on a large
number of institutions and on their cooperation. The larger role
attributed to SUDENE in regional coordination and technical assistance
requires considerable institution-building. Institutional analysis and
improved institutional effectiveness were an important parts of project
preparation. In addition, most agencies involved have experience with the
project's target group. Improved monitoring, evaluation and technical
assistance should helm decrease management risks. The project's emphasis
on beneficiary participation and community involvement would increase
accountability of the executing agencies.
74.       The proposed project does not include land tenure, health, and
education activities. These activities are essential for sustained rural
development and parallel sectoral projects for health and education are
currently under preparation. A regional Land Tenure Improvement Project
will be submitted to the Executive Directors shortly. Expected benefits
under the proposed project are not directly dependent, in the short term,
on the implementation of such projects in the short-term.
75.       Delays and shortfalls in counterpart funding could decrease the
proposed project's impact. Recent changes in funding channels and
procedures (para. 64 above), the merging of the rural special programs
(para. 56 above) and new sources of counterpart funding (FINSOCIAL funds)
are expected to improve the funding situation. Overall, the risks
associated with this project are acceptable in view of the expected
benefits to low-income farm families and the important institutional-
building aspects of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the Project Agreement between the Bank and
the State of Rio Grande do Norte, and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
77.       Special conditions of the loan and conditions of effectiveness
and disbursement are discussed throughout this report and summarized in its
Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 28 -
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 5, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 29 -                                          AZIKU I
Page 1 of 5
MUL                   - -SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUIT
*lAZIL                               EFREZE GROUPS (RalEmD AVERAGES) 
NOST               (NOSY RECENT ESTIATE) lb
RICENT        RIDDLE INCUS           MIDL  INCUOU
irsa-    untkL    ESTIMATeb   LAT. AMRItICA & CAR               EUROPE
E  (TTIIOIISD   . 36)
TOTAL                            $512.0       1512.0      8512.0
AGRICULTURAL                     1636.4       1961.2      2352.7
CUP SR CAPITA (MP)                   330.0        600.0     2240.0            2108.6                   2345.3
UlKU    n CSrnau ma caPmU
(KILOGRAMS O OIL EQUIVALENT)      264.0        412.0      740.0             95.5                    1122.6
POPATION  ID VTL SATIBCS
POPULATIOI,HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  72594.0     95847.0   1266.0
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)      44.9         55.8       68.8              66.5                     46.1
POPULATION MOJECTIOMS
POPULATION IN YEA  2000 (MILL)                           181.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (KILL)                            303.6
POPULATION NOMXENTU                                        1.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Km.                       U.5         11.3        14.6             35.7                     82.9
PtR SQ. 30K. ACRI. LA            44.4         48.4       52.7              92.4                    158.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE CE)
D-14 YIS                        43.6         42.7       40.9              39.9                     31.6
I5-64 YIS                        53.8         54.3       55.6              56.0                     61.1
b5 AND ABOVE                      2.6          3.1         3.5              4.1                      7.1
POPULATION GROTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                             3.1          2.8         2.3              2.4                      1.6
URBAN                             5.7          5.0        4.1               3.6                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TOUS)       42.7         35.0        31.2             31.3                     23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)       12.9         10.3        8.1              8.1                       8.8
CROSS REOOUCTION RATE               3.0          2.4        1.9               2.0                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)                    111.0       203.6 A
USERi (Z OF MARRIED MOMEN)                .                 ..             40.3
roa An xmama.
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      69.0        102.0       133.0            114.3                    114.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)    106.0        104.0       107.0            110.6                    128.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         64.0         62.0       60.0              67.3                     89.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      35.0         34.0        36.0 /d          34.1                     34.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        19.4         12.5        8.0               5.7                      5.2
WALI
LIFE EXPECT. AT bIRTH (YtEARS)     54.7         58.9       63.8              64.7                     67.4
INFANT  OART. RATE (PER THOUS)    l18.2         98.6       73.4              60.6                     54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                         55.0        77.1 i/          65.4
URBAN                              ..         78.0       8a.8 7;           78.1
RURAL                              .          26.0       56.8 7;           46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                         58.0       64.8 /e           52.9
URBAN                              ..         85.0       33.7 a            67.0
RURAL                                         24.0       31.77;            24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2210.0       2130.0                       1917.7                   1065.8
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON          2810.0       1120.0         .              815.8                    764.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL SED
TOTAL                           310.0        270.0       250.0 /a         367.2                    326.3
URBAN                           250.0        320.0          .             411.5                    201.5
IWRAL                                            .          ,            2636.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                     13.4                         27.3                     20.0
Uina
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.1          4.8        4.9 /a
URBAN                                          4.6        4. 7;
RURAL                               .          5.2        5.37
AVERACE NO. OF PESONS/RUE
TOTAL                                          1 1.1
URBAN                              ..          1.0
RURAL                                          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECT. (C OF DWELLNGS)
-OTAL                            38.7         47.6        67.4
URBAN                                         75.6      8u.5
RURAL                                          8.4       20.6



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
*IU7-1                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNEW
URAZIL        -                      REFENCE CROUWS (tUiziK TED AVRAGE I
mOST                (MOST RECENT ESTIMATS) lb
RECZNT        MIDDLE INCOM            MIDDLE SNCOH
igeoLA    1970L'    ZSTiATE         LAT. AmICA a CAR tEUROPE
ADJUSTMD ENROLLMNTEI RATIOS
PRIURY:  TOTAL                    95.0         84.0        93.0 0f.        105.4                     101.1
NALZ                   97.0         84.0        93.0            106.3                     105.5
FINALX                 93.0         84 0        93.0 fl         104.5                      96.7
SECOUDAIYS TOTAL                  11.0         26.0       32.0 ILh          43.2                     59.1
NALB                   11.0         26.0        29.0             42.3                      68.9
FEMALE                 10.0         27.0        35.0 ;h          44.5                      50.6
VOCATIONAL (X OF ICONDARTY)         LB.6         15.7       59.2 I            33.6                     21.6
PUPIL-TSACHER RATIO
PRI!                              33.0         28.0       26.0 /A           30.1                      25.1
8ECONDARY                         13.0         13.0        14.0 E           16.8                     20.5
ADtLT LITERACY NATE CX)             61.0         66.2        76.0 .t          79.5                      75.6
PASSENER  CAR/STHOUBAND POP          7.6         16.6       4S.9              46.0                     54.7
RDIO RECZIVERS/IUOUSD POP           65.4        103.4      165.1             225.6                    164.9
TV RZCEIVZES/TMOAND POP             16.5         44.3       119.7            107.2                     123.6
NEPAPM  ("DAILY GENEAL
INTERET") CIRCULATION
PZR TUSAN  POPULATION             52.9         35.6        44.0 h           63.5                      96.3
CINIMA ANNUAL ATTSDCANCECAPITA       4.4          2.0         1.8  h           2.5                      2.9
TOMAL LUAO FORCE (THOMS)         23326.0      30411.0    40365.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  17.2         20.1        23.2             23.2                      34.5
ACRCULTUME (PZRCENT)              51. 9        45.6        29.9             31.5                      40.7
INDUSTSY (PERCENT)                14.8         18.3       24.4              23.9                      23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTML                             32.1         31.7        31.8             32.2                      42.9
MALE                              52.7         50.3        46.9             49.3                      54.7
FEMALE                            11.2         12.6       14.8              15.2                      31.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.4          1.4        1.4               1.4                      0.9
ISIC=  DIS21,1 On
PE    F PRIVAE ICmx
RECItVED Sy
HIGHEST 52 OF HOUSIHOLDS            ..
HICHEvS 20S OF sCUSZHDLDS         60.0         63.5        62.0 /
LOWVES Z0Z05   BOUSEHOLDS          3.S          3.2         2. S..
LOWEST 4O0 OF HOUSEHOLUS          10.8          9.0        9.4                .
POVER TACI GHOUIS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPrTA)
URBAN                               ..           ..         ..             288.2
RURAL                               ..           ..       150.O /d         184.0
ESTSMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOM
LEVEL (USS PE. CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..      465.0 /d          522.8
RURAL                               ..           ..      332.0 /d          372.4
ESTIHArED POP. BELOU ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (CZ
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
No T E S
/a  The group averages for each Zndiator arm population-veighted aritbestic meana. Coverage of countris amoug the
lndicators depends on availability of data and iSn not unifors.
b   Unless otberwiea  noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any yer betwan 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Edtiste"' betimn 1980 and 1982.
k   1975 tt 1977; /a 1976  If 1979; / Beginning 1973 primry and secondary education cmor age groups 7-14 and 15-17
Isetead-of 7-10 and 11-l In earlier years; tberefore. most recent entimtes are not comparable vwih earlier data;
fh 1978.
JUNE, 1984



- 31 -                                                     AZINUI
at mama guianaPage 3 of 5
5.1mml 4Ititat ta. dog. at Sen. From eaeeg imeenint.ta'mmntearim tea as Iimamebod  "11W .hdae.tndgtagymem      iaetgei
ecsvte eeic  meb.11ieee al"t g        Vde Ale   d.gemg. md ineapee4 gas h dgiac.pec angin"aaI alsce    h-ab dam.. VWe do'. ace, damtelata. claSt I.
Thea drafest ega  an." ev  i) ml."' an.    eE    imes Cf' tha mvtj.c  oddatle ad 'It e .n.mrrV aideg ea.m  gdernteea hee   a..  ieg  bmaemc?  e             t
ofm    mi  .eys   c   lligm  iiPsnc   ee ip   ldttre  ehCen.    gteUetS  lts tee.. cm                                               - taiye  emmeutgeeld o au
narisg  -1a  edde    egae .1dim    amyceP a tr  lisee avengL  eve at. cl                i  asgagm.vte  Ii             Iima.ea   mm..w an.emme.  ce.lmi
flaaj- Yaat e.aas  evee avsalat.e ted aye a  actas aaceIiieetsot1iiiitinUiUTe    a  edicsto gihol"d am  emccit tent.  
item,:I am *ereeemael  te  agdmaearemlIp ar ePv.e-.elv                  ate ae  (eMearet. an.. L          mmnsrM.eeamc  gre  e
mites as ieS dame.                                                             iataige. q4  sheiml-cib4 - i.ept. ectac. pd et  *.1. dareiat. biadm
.1 a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r- "nas MatteS Iacdi hi vvava dcjeegcahd
~iii~fl~W~  eeeaeglnmiss -acid ~. cite. tiii.e prcga..                       rahehi1 sotvl rulsIaman * iaaaitg andj  Imsmgecc mat   lie
name, mci.. ad tea dams,                                        ha a~~~~~~~~~~~M,in  end  heeS S-.  tloshmetaemad. ciamdaem4 pct.Igol hr nidgaio
In            -ppeabdot            of eaddenw                                              flay~~ean ae m  liga.    ent  "dealac.. hee.c.te. Ines eith ad
eery er   I..  alIdel. Pescain. gaecgt1  n  -as hide-. We.ele                           maaeag1-1. bre.. adaubli. AdIC! e st t. me, ae.stameee  ae.....ata  ad
Pae   dtm   am.                                                                         arfiluL. sftdrmLhog      * yamet.  va.r   Ci ada       owiIV me dlgde4.1
01 Is           ~~~pfasd tiamlabetled noo. ate cdMtca t-ied...
me   ema  Sc nie.  i mmii *tile.1  ete,it mmem  es.iamiem         -r2ZL              L.V  tD"t.'Ir tes I        cedd..  e   ivnuntr
ia.mcg   sce  v        aeia   ieec.atlm   tdm M,ammm.aheda  mlca  a  em    ah  clddI
ad     .  "9 of Odc.                  :dd gulf ai.re  -           e. .  - mm     Wr at ore deg iesp  aneW.  fo l Ydd
isa     amn      am a    a  S    e.feae.em tIe as 1va"e.Stay                      daliag.iag aac.ti.9t4il ilP- sred    ,sin-.               envea
Sai.  meadag a lIe an.etae.  emd Meaft leee..tag'de ftub  gwy     pea             Lw,i11. quesen rite laac,aae a     dayill vea  ft- .egt  ch   asmraces -d
ymca. Th pgyem.i ic         n   hitapie aLas hen gt.. teeS".                        atP-I  ,aa   siaa en tigojj  1jr      Ieadaclc-Iy
cicamt delta I. lentl tity demicadar m an lodenS a-d pea fealty
citmag yoreta.emv. made naemivlt ii Wite minces  ec ate.. -l-
entlemign ci c it.lm  mdl Parmitiy enela  myC cejedasm pradded. ".
,UiUld!uilf - tim   It vhh -a- ad da.-gP-i lie mygalle,                                  -.                    o               a-Sem. tdeat. ate. as mea.
a.thue- c a t..1i narets, stleh 0-rpeti. ftitilily                     de-Ume., oft       MC    me seem. tecat ce caemiege  do receatii
cc   W.. haI samlsiamet  neodaade am ropeadiee t hal  tea                               e.?ah iim  -e,ec cevtlt.e.  ca1rctl. mi-en. ehildn aced a-i1
.Pyvday S. vod.aedlt. me nd% . a ectettmam. "At betice  aeai.pC                                  insrmdeaamtne  S   cn.aaai.
armIe ft. ial a.,   no. its  sainar  cateibuar aim em. aommle  - mll.                ai.a eyt  mvSm.WC  i"UKyate   aet 'l en
bate at aL. cejeme lba.maae paiia at i  pe.ta em. Ca at           'we                Seaer  ceee    mdcl. Buta  ad revtel - Cecas -acee~I           rsc
- t.d pspn  ate ge.dr.cia tr ccs.iipapdeeact ie t"evite                       yvada  cyl.         .mca.e lt     ataem  Idmaf.tt-     C
Sc"e. beetc the em   at-o vq.cecmemce ya. te   ceais  liv   it                      `Aaecet W ait.dgdMBP,o  adnd1o
DIamatacstai   cit   n    . t mecc, a- a. real. ci m.                              icreteac   -1c.'           maci(f.ce. - cC  .ra.g        -rsaa eS  nse,.m
et daeeatle,.Ir deatelecme"l  tate N cepeietha   iate aa ±. jlcjaeaddrite.eee - ieWdctvc..  ,evpaacg)  ar
aead.da Jca MP".aeir   et.*eiar  e  .ceev  -%. ..tea  acSSdI
Pct.llee     lb..    -e.e.llz-Id.ease as .re.rvS,c. t. f.. -.,.it_d c   .e..c  e-a.Ct
-d. A...ccytie  t  la.Stmacte'ecael cteegede  tel.
i-eiat.crag item, iON, eel liCe lace,                 Saga Ita.carv cete i.acaaeii - Llavceaa edeti. chIc .eed"it. eed ja I act..-3a.
p.Pipdeteai     lowe 1iii. adl IOU dead,                                              ea.aet  Sa   et.e.yrmeerid.aim. ddd                       earcach.-   mcd
peat- peemiamam d..-* medo- * as ew-ca.. eac.e  m t.eaaa  caboted at.)  P alt mm~  etreeatm it -edi.
Ivsmtemm Orih tea  taar Issu-eda U- hetfttP dethcame. de a-                      c.deea m   e.ott   efael Obtia  mec.0 ishor2 t a"ytaO a  e- eonteud. ted,
apeiarmpuac ee fl-el aW r.md; iotdtemm.                                               aouetime ldlnafter. gtoel-meeodm.ec   t.cgataa  tc
e.mne rtee Oncihag I -             iona". Ite   tltte s.stegd  .5 et-                m  mmCert   aettie.e                       meadad S- aeesaeati el. 
ieee caetammi  at. 154 ad   c ams                                             anaama atuas  ite"v.eet...d  V   ooar
-dna  meebt ofd-Anbte ca t        11 i gadawa L.              mitend"t    L.er taesi pace  La.. -ttif o VWlm btea Ivses    am.fet
~..b~ilamu   - anted. fit   ci dsamt   pei. a a awe pIt tea   .m   ataa    .yec.                                                Post.maati nem fte veac.
h.rceen.ic,pe sutie  peetress at.wecp  iteam 1 cIsm. . eea-mai Ita.m   isat  eraesidaatat.  dousp                                      .  mmoo  e c.  "H-
isriltmy isea3 catty   ue-pa  seaweadlagmc tie. tie. atelm              led amlass¶Iaapearti ta.meveam  eme.c3 digas at a. sldidat
ymca.                                                                      mlatmeg.Ieoos".0doe-C.6   emit1 dcte at. Isobr.s vtdegale a  dttc.-ic ttceen -d
y..ttre3e Id-a.arvrle Deae P.   ncct  amen.-          = Pagaag   """"Scl            name. advi.
e.tdbmtf  "ap ye vs agmimi me e altIS40 emerg d Ce   fi v1il
atttd-  teeeegn. avv ea."ai ems aoegd ti-c   attt doarmelda.                      10              m- ma-el.ane= =n .gttde  aado
opamiamt.. 1  dIVA.I.    goealmm aot  emeraataa
Franlt  tn,taleftas ta      denp.. ad.FM.            rf
'q!e~*RS½-.daaate   c~edima iiStC-Iiaim  - t~e eycar aapti             !.e.IsJM~           -t Fel  tsht ter  n                 %..e&fiacanltec laer
anal- C.edet. atods  r- botim    laIn.  yr-d tea Pntouty ned a.s                      f I!11   3-"1.  of &te  .ce t4er tan.g.  ceecacIS   Ometmag ast
eas as men  m aieedarl pear haal.  ~dtste   tie r wlncys  matdsa (a..4            M 1itt-.i Itt        itma  t t      emp  In.. tirsle d'   5  Lame
-f-sd9 tatddit ceWder).ehe a         dWt aed-t mince. mccut..t  las.                                11   e   -a  .hdaso   -    =                 im.
mdedr adoi dcoen. c.trosa . Iaaet deltadas  fl-4at  .e  enasc I. to"                  Owtl                     in.maetme1    ma11lc. Weccea
damW                                                                                earegattema..  -  git pr  o   lame (aewasa -0 I'mat- la - nasfen  - Um ytCtvte.lm c
day. AelImit. nypiAgar erie  dm.eamte cehditgee.  oste Ide..                          tmel. tiThe ad  Si1 deame. t1ta en tdend -a gLe. cataectpL- M..
amertttcc eaS I. CO." cvm.-eic  add leace a. tatseiatatet.  bale-                     (-slaomtnamlo mm  Cia cain.! marce.
eama emit dectaotd hr tAD bammt doam hyit.gleel -dna for nega                                                                   edlkltif     ta,a   a t  m.d- it add Ci aste  t
nastely adl eteats a.mtdactcc ce.gneasat. caar.mdee. m- e.te                          l      1itij1       lte   att.m   t-a.
agead mes  Brisgtotl er ca1petamma. aDo eitngda to peene for an..
am taeadshd tent   vtu-at5 ltso ad tea dames.                                       p    lt
eC.me #at aDt aubstrate .CiUtstd by tam  cIcd   e  tanaetii
glt- eC &tt gdsa.1 toIslet pvAm.  .e day meltPas gy.    "-Ian   as
celia creeds. CC aLsLh lit arm. SIfd ha soea paciet. 11hce
amsto"se dot- In  bm Oeam.1 at   Woodsrby aft      ot"gme .nma as  l m 21                C   F   nI        sea..c  apu'ed.mra dn-... do ye.s.y bets, cadd
or.5 a" ~    W iI  rmg      encagew tar ate Idt. wpe.5o"   F41) n.a ge.               ehid he,  1.ieicn d Rile  aden.dabbe, Ioated..
ttat heaU egusi met,! mi"t-s. ttfI WA tIe. dam..                                    letnd  hlt hers  taEem tan  (IN   -Aes1.epte ain                     ra 
hr peta- segim Caf dov inn. nw  as   ,1asic.- e.i:cge eety at *as                      Mab tedaa  eny Ihn4   tent PI. vtedtaeL.  ft   teta. NOINetl a- Mte
dais.                                                                       etiaada-ele.k 01. althssdd9.t 
Chl am. tea mamad tstt.v  Meim P-me   dasat per bothesSI                             eteitaeetAeateit.ram!s .a    ae
l armp ant, da.;;4 g mIto. toDach. Saom. Cie, an aemt etagae.Poessllnlecccgta0. estemmleeume I.-m   as dameraddmeto auelm
manila    tdanced C.. tth thicet tO, tUg a   in  dat.           paymeth megen t aote taya eoste a t  laent I.  -ftS e. mdes. 
ftent aedirbthejace.tmhmtcCe  i atsI ey-sn
!MSM   ;Wb;r          -~~no  .k.# proon at lit. eoatei-                             - aOwrcstaecmye  d  ae!aata.   -a
leten tiVat.Lg   c (emi atmest - al deatehst a          ad ,  sac
tac it. cea.  Kttt  ra~ nt   t   au Ion, a.a m.a. nr                                                                         .eeg   atesa   e.ere
nas    ..P- atac nih  -gtea lie. crgmal. countalet  .c-iMe". as                                                               tadla.1m      "  m     I..
butamF -Alny 4e ememdals- of hatin etta. agm pMtte a af sh
me. dras me iai.he ate ea.   ty. d aec lnO.           be   h-2  
ft   et    -     ta    deg dwd-p INIA-                       rd -kf
maqa rel, tal   t imepemmt   patnln =mu    n  dieeatr   -  tMtadW
-., ,attal. as dmegIat. ems b-  .m gped        . Mouit tdoe  eneart
ad     1 ene-nt byt  cew-Siny. apamr datdtm.C  pa,a           a
e   PusheamttM        Wama.          86"_zdm



- 32 -
UCOGIOMIC INIDICATOU8
Populatten:      126. 8   illteo  C1912)
CGP For Capita:  wsi2.2240 (182)
Indleeter                                Amount                      Average lAual Increase (2)                  hare of CGOP  t Market Prices (3)
(M1iiu  1111  urnt)                 (at Cntant 1970 Prices)                          (at Currnt FPrie
YU"                 L195-70 /9-3                      1.93              19701    73          3 3
Rational Accounts
Crel oo De*tic Product in                         209,003                7.7        10.6        4.9        1.9           100.0       100.0      100.0
Agriculture                                      21.139                1.9        5.7         4.7        2.2            10.2        10.9       30.1
Induetry                                         77.417                9.2        11.6        7.6        1.9            35.3       37.2        36.9
Services                                        111.195                3.0        10.7       4.0         1.8            54.0       51.9       53.0
Ccnueption                                        1U.632                 7.7        9.0        5.7         0.3            77.3       71.9       80.3
gres Investment                                    37.135                9.4        14.6        5.2       -0.4            22.7       32.1        17.7
Exports of Goods mnd UPS                           23.6D2                8.2        11.2        7.3       11.8             6.7        7.4        11.3
Importa of Goods and lPS                           139594               14.3       17.2        2.8         1.2             7.2       11.4        9.3
Cream Dowestic Sautnge                             41.169                7.9        12.9        6.1        2.7            22.2       28.1        19.7
Amount                  Avere Annual Increase C2)              Couosittlon of Nerchandiae Trade (2)
(mllftite US5 Curr ntC at Con'tnt 1970 Prtima)                                Car Grrent Pricee)
1983               -1970-1         3975-0      1931-46                 1970        1915       393
Merchandlie Trade
Merchsndiae Exporte                               213,9"              11.1            7.7            12.4                 100.0        100.0      300.0
PrimAry e/                                     100603                8.3            1.1             6.1                  7h.7        62.7       43.4
Haufactures dI                                  11.296              28.2            13.2           19.5                  22.5         34.3       51.6
ierchendlee Iwports                               15 429              14.3           -3.3           -0.6                  100.0       IOD.O       100.0
Peod (Cereals)                                     966              -6.7            17.5          -1.3                    4.5         3.0        6.3
Pecrolem                                        8.179                7.6            4.3           -8.7                   11.2        25.4        53.0
Machinery and Equipment */                       2,505              15.2           -7.5          -4.3                    36.2        32.2        16.2
Other                                            3.777              28.4           -1.9             1.3                  48.1        39.4       24.5
3975          1976          3977          197J           3979          1980         3933        3932       2983
Prtie and Term of Trade
GDP Deflater (5970-    )               303.1          444. 3        632.7         392.5        1.399.4       2.724.6     5,596.8    111103.3    23.272.4
Fxchange Rate (CrSI3SS)                  3.1           10.4          14.1          13.1          26.9           52.7        93.1       130.O       577.1
Ewport Prlce Index (1970 - 100)         176.0         192.0         226.0         22B.0          264.0         290.0       252.0       225.1        191.7
Import Price Index (1970 - 100)        262.0          255.0         256.0         317.0         339.0          431.0       £74.0       522.0       493.5
Tern of Trade Index (1970 - 100)         72.0          75.0          79.0          72.0          68.0           67.0        53.0        43.1        33.8
WI of GDr
_17P   Carrl      5 Clx3ft9"Cn                 1980 Li      198t A/  1982 A/
Public Finance (Central Cowernent)
Current Revenue                                                              t.46           19.8             20.8            20.1         18.9    21.2
Current Expenditure                                                          14.4           15.8             17.6            19.3         20.2    25.4
Surplus (4) or defiit ct-)                                                    2.2            *.0              3.2             0.3         -1.4    -4.2
Capital Expenditure                                                           2.6            3.8              3.7             4.1          3.5      3.4
Fnancngt (Net)                                                                0.4           -0.2             0.5              3.9          4.9      7.6
1965-70          1970-75          1976-30              1931-34
Other ludicators
av CNF1rFetWh e C2)                                                          7.7              10.7              6.6                 1.8
CUP per Capita Crowtb Rate (2)                                               4.6              7.7               4.0                -0.6
Energy Coaumptton Growtb Rate (2)                                            7.2              3.7              64.                  -
ICDR                                                                         2.9              2.2              4.3                 13.0
Marginal SayinI Rate f7                                                     20.5             27.9               7.8                38.7
Import Elasticity  ff                                                        2.2              1.6             -0.1                  0.6
a/  At arket prices; convrted at averege exehange rate.
;7   Estimate.
l/ Includee coffee (bean end soluble), other agrtiultural producte, and drneral-.
d    Includeu  anfuectured and semi-processed preducts.
.1 Includee transportatlon materials.
tf  The 1931-36 projection are calculated using the  east squares method.
j    1980-1982 include goweraut  xpndituree effected through the monetary budget and sone miner goern_ent funds, as vell as trTnf er to the
federal enterprise.
Source: Conjuntura Econoedca. IC; Banco Central do 8raztl; Iragil Standard IWdul CVorld Bank).                                         DecIer 20. 1934



-33 
A     02 PA      . m     l rMM  AM  1fW
I2paiadmu      220.5 gtuAm (19W)
Or  Ihr IojtaI  1112.210(ISM
1971       1976       1977       29752       U79        1)         265            142       2U6          194         2wo        1
Mid  _ 4,l                   -%.M        -,Ol8      -4.037      -4,a0     -10.039    -122,0      -11.173       -54,0X       -4.171     -2.,h      -4.20      .3,5
4r.oa siV                                       8,670     20.123   12,ID         12.49     12,24A       3,232      3.293          M,204      22,89      22.l2       10. 11    30,992
4o,ta of cmb                                 -12.210    -12.3t    -122023    -13,443    -mm           -22933    -2m             -29.397    -15.43      -14.337    -17.01   -se1.32
Ihe lam b                                      -I.3       -2 .2      -2.Mb       -%3.7      .4.622 Ul    021       459 y         -122M      -0.313    -122.110   -13.714   -11 .7
d di.t t1r,at I a    4                      (-1.49)   (-,610)   (-2.10)   (   ()    (.4,311)   (4.179)                        (1I2.03)  C- 9,133)  (- 9.9)   HIM)(-   2
Not ,a.-tm    csv-I-                           -1.42      -2.14       -I.539     -2.409     -2,371      .3.2       4,837         3.,2         2.322     .2.47      -3709    -4.52
rat c           b                                     2                                           la72  I  - a    U      97             -           - _    _ _
OmuB tamt                                        -6.700     -0.017      -4.03      -4,012     -0.021    -12.3%      -m,97b         -14,01      4,272      -2.63       1,20      -,MD
9LT6etme r    i tnv nt S                           892         959         1        1.071      1.491      12121.0    1.               "I2         07         7          732        2
Ulam  MOt)                                        4.63       9.042       5.420     10.018      9.297       3,79.    9*6y            0,44        3,107      R.47 t      3,53       ,9M
0haKnD   a                                     (6.904    (6,1J)    (9.23)   (25.204)   (11.73)   (10.005)   (17.3)               (13,777)    (7,331)   (17.073)   (1399)  (90% )
Aortmttm                                      (-Q2.,2    (-2,62l)   (-3,63)   (-5,146)   (4,431)   (4.612.0) (-7,9)               -7.333)   (-3,53)4   (4,2)  (-20,2) (-14,210)
w5U1m  lom           cm)                           -196       -U248      -27        -357        -610        016       -702           -I           22        -c       -2,023    -1,48
etbr      Oa  .. !/                                 al         93       -I.22        -451        42       4.06'       ,33           4,022       1,n70     -1.812      12,4 
buy t n rwoo (-4nezuw) !/                            950      4,292        -43      .4.20        3,215      3.321       467           4,3            10     -FM -'.0e3    -1. 197
tg   mi km.                                        4,001       6,94       7,25       11.199      9.099      0,913      7,8(l          3,00        3,3)       7.         6 , .435   9.651
2AMtMmmdle Of    ah                                    A           6.3        7.2       10.3         6.4        3.6        4.1            L2         2.2         .7         *.4       4.1
ACM~~~_ 
1973       197b       1977        197        197       1to         101            2962         l3 ly
--iiiA Dobt
= I d3 bt kI amOatd     aWd ilabalt            23.216     2BM1M       3G0102    4A,k3       35,342    534,66       63.612         53,1103    71.510
Rd.cd SWrd&     7 sI 23.1706                              27,309      21.519     302.A      3.678      31,24O     435)            47.80      5806
Olfida main                                   3,959      4,431       4,717      5.1 DI       659       6.416      7,264          6,238     10,058
mmD                                          f (.093)    (1,217)    (1.013)    (1,602)    (I.L67)    (2.069)    (2.319)         (2.72)    (3,635)
O6r                                          (2,866)    (3,214)    (3,3)    (3799)    (0              (4.347)    (4,925)        (5.434)      6,4)
Mute mar..                                    9.747      12s1       162,678    23,13      29,3055     31,144     34,376         3,411      46,010
.. ;-m ntd                                     9.932      111,33      13.C05     I6,152 1o 664          16,005     19.742        23.011      21.512
ihdtabwmi bt (pARk aC*)                           3,b79      6,0D       6,411       0,2       1224        54,062    124995          1,0D7      2,916
Tow         -m,td of 36. lra                      6.981      8.16n      9.         2.20,164   11,72       20.00      1SM            12,7Y3      7,33D
M,lUc ad  rbUcly artd                           3.1M       4,921      3.02       r 1P.16     9.132      6,893       6,997          7,91S      7,093
OC diii .      mtdt                             426        A           169      4'9          64         467          26            070      1102
aD       -7210                                             1n '73     2           753        m12        363         77            623       1:204
Odw wm lht.rl                                   119        113         92         236        2M5        122         26             226        218
kMug {m                                       2.99       4,233   * .m62         9,216      8.197       7.92       8.393          6,015      4,571
Mdvt mww       ru. d                           3,160       3,239      3.61       3,0o8      2,576      3.192      f4001          4.64         235
aft Sualom
TH e ablda avia ti                               4,95        4.322       5,42       6,252     11,247      W3,6       14,80          I6,29      52,10
blat   rou)                                    (1,677)    (1.42)    (12651)    (2.457)    (3.555)   (t.4U2)    (7778)             (9.296)       572
IR      - 2 f  prm a o                              43.0        38.7       A2.3       58u        46.L         0.0      5V.1            7.6         47.4
l i m2oES'                                           39          2.6        3.0        3.7         4.3        6.8        3.4             .3    f    *4
w1imem  rot. one,  pAlr dde  aX)                       8.7         7.6        8.3        9.9        11.2       1L3        212            I2.7        11.4
Wf1da1adx.                                            7.7        7.9        8.0        7.3         83     S              9 .5a    ID.9             2LS
*,me.rflnbrvo' am ,rdmat 1mm                           9.0        11.3        A.0       10.0        11.5        9.0        9.7            g9         9.1
i &MMIMnd                         U18.4                         16.3       16.1       16.5        24.0 i      29         13.1          13.7        229
Pd_m"    _7.0                                                    9.3        8.7        9.3        1.2         a7         8.9             .2         &A
MD  bmibld                                           4.7         4.3        4.1        1.4        3.6         3.6        3.6            3.9        4.1
M  dl*bmut.tt.1 s     dialr,wa (Y)                   3.5         .1         3.2        1.8         2.i        3.4       L2              6.9         0.4
SW  ibt m korlddibt wlrvc    (Z)                     2.5         3.2        3.7        2.7        2.2         2.1        2.2            L5         4.6
1A  d total M:t dmg mtAt'K
Debt knan0"                                                         at di. ad of Ib.a_  2952
-Pauar1tE' aat    f N=   h. t .gatmd
rIadtts de i0dddn  S Sin                                                    39
rAmritn 1  ,.tn 20 y                                                        95
a, k O   i m  a,n ahomt  utu ad MS lam.                                                           >_b                                                           , 2M.91Y.
B, N I ttdu  dfew 2961 am tat 1in  not cn-fmeen tim..
Oabuh   wamod  a,ooiOu.
W/ Iempa -s                ad ernm ad .damlmn.
? b       ,1wtuetiadomts ad inaLa  at &MMtlc 9Id.
G=     Dy.
?/I RoAM l,  oy
rkml Eaa   dl(16M  1Aw).
Sm: saw a cm          n do *MU; kmnu p  Lr t h at&  197 _-4) MD); IF.



- 34 -
ANNEK II
Page 1 of 3
THE STAIUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SU3>LRY STATEMENr OF LOANS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount less Undis-
Loan #   Year           Borrower                   Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
-                                         (1.15$~~~~~~~~~~U  Millionsm)
Sixty-five loans fully disbursed                                    2,619.4
1075     1975 Brazil                           Roads                  110.0        6.9
1151     1975 Companhia Siderurgica Nacional Industry                  95.0        1.7
1152     1975 Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                 60.0       12.3
1195     1976 Brazil-                          Rural Development       12.0        2.3
1207-5   1976 Brazil                           Feeder Roads            55.0        2.7
1317     1976 Brazil                           Agro-Industry           83.0       27.0
1362     1977  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development       42.0        2.2
1406     1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes         Fertilizer              52.0         .5
1411     1977 Fertilizantes Vale do Rio        Fertllizer              55.0         .7
Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL
1452     1977 Brazil                           Education               32.0       12.6
1488     1977 Brazil                           Rural Development       11.0        3.0
1525     1978 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Sewerage               110.0       57.6
1537     1978 Brazil                           Rural Development       24.0       14.8
1538     1978 ELETROBRAS                       Power                  130.0       22.7
1557     1978 Brazil                           Roads                  114.0       27.7
1562     1978 COPESUL                          Petrochemicals          85.0         .9
1568     1978 Brazil                           Agric. Extension       100.0       26.1
1589     1978 Brazil                           Rural Development       37.0       18.0
1654     1979 Banco Nacional da Babitacao      Sites and Services      93.0       11.7
1656     1979 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water and Sewerage    100.0          22.3
1714     1979 Brazil                           Rural Development       26.0       18.5
1720     1979 Brazil                           Urban Development       70.0       29.4
1721     1979 COPEL                            Power                  109.0       31.4
1728     1979 Brazil                           Rural Development       40.0       24.9
1729     1979 Br.-zil                          Irrigation              28.0        7.3
1730-5   1979 Brazil                           Roads                  110.0       33.8
1822     1980 Brazil/BINDE                     Pollution Control       58.0       56.8
1823     1980 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply             130.0       31.3
1824     1980 CEEE                             Power                  114.0       73.2
1839     1980  Brazil                          Urban Transport        159.0       53.0
1850     1980 Banco Nacional da lHabitacao    Water Supply            139.0       42.4
1867     198D  Brazil                          Education              32.0        23.4
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development       63.0       52.8
1895     198D  ELETLOSUL                       Power                  125.0       92.6
1924     1981  Brazil                          Rural Development      56.0        30.2
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                      Power                   54.0       44.8



- 35 -
M     II
Pap 2 of 3
A. S1WR  STA lI CF LOW  (Coutlzmd)
(As of Septdm.r 30, 196'.)
Amnt l1_  Undis-
LOW 9  Yer                  r                                 Coa3lations bursd
-SS  -
1965    1961  ED                             Urban Tamport          90.0      63.4
1970    1961          licul da Kabitcao,   Water Supply           1lO.0     120.9
1989    1981 Brazil                          Alohol Devepomt  250.0          139.2
2015    1961 Brazil                          Agriulture             29.0      19.0
2016    1981 Brazil                          Apiculture             60.0      27.2
2060    1962 Brazl                           Agriculture            67.0      39.5
2061    1982 Brazil                          1umath                 13.0       6.9
2062    1982 Bral                           Digliy                240.0      66.5
2116    1982 Brazil                          Agrialbture            26.4      18O
2136    1982  EURAS                          Poum                  182.7     152.9
2163    1982 Brazfl                          Agriculture            26.4      21.2
2170    1982 Brazil                          Urban Delop_ot    123.9         107.4
2177    1982 Brazil                           lural Develqmnt       42.7      34.9
2193    1982 Brazil                          Urban DUevelont         S.9       6.8
2196    1962 CM                              IM  Ore               304.5     1488
2224    1982 Brazll                          Feeder                154.0     137.7
2225    1982 BM)3S                           Development Banklig   220.0      50.3
2249    1983 Romeo Naciowl da Hafbdta        Water Supply          302.3     251.8
2268    1983 Brazil                          Agro-Idustrim         400.0     374.0
2269    1983 Brazil                           &ual Deelqpent        67.8      61.8
2343    1983 Brazfl                          Urba Developmnt        52.7      48.7
2347    1983 Brasl                           lExpt Developme       352.0      85.8
2348    1983 Brazil                          Agriculture           303.0      10.0
2353    1983 Brazl                           Agricalture            65.2      61.0
1729-1  1983 Brazil                           grlture                7.7       7.7
2060-1  1983 Brazil                          Agriculture            22.8      22.7
2364    1983 Eletrobra                       Power                 250.6     227.9
2365    1983 Eletrobras                      Pmer                  222.8     202.0
2366    1983 Brazil                          3ducation              20.0      19.9
2412/1  1984 Brazil                          Bdunation              40.0      40.0
244r  1984 Brazil                            Federal lghrays       210.0     210.0
2447W  1984 State of Sao Paulo               halth                  55.5      55.5
z4487Nr  1984  State of Sao PJ10a             Nealth Studies         2.0       2.0
Total                                             9,725.3 12
Of iuich har been repaid to the Bank              1,586.2
Total no outtend                                  8,137.1
Ahount old                            45.8
Of ibch boo been repaid             45.8            0.0
Total noy held by Bank                            8,137.1
Total uudisburaed                                            3,782.9
/1 Not yet effective.
77 No       creadits bm  b_e mode to Brazil.
Nte:  Nm status of tih projects lsted in Part A is dEcribed In a separate report
an all B11k/IA finaned projects  eiecution,  hidch Is updated twime  yearly
ad clroated to the Execwtive Directors on Aprll 30 an October 31.



- 36 -
P 3 d 3
1. smut   DC  D HI u             i  _         so. 1931I)
vow                                      bI     a  Ob1  ger                        Tudb .1arn et                             Iqi  t 1
137                111_  dkbo Ci  . deo I63dAm                                      tiI Upa                          LOD        -        .0O
19                  Ola*xdt, L A. tu_1   a                     41                hp Ed _t                            L0        -       1.20
131                D. L. 1 Rnttm  de BL1i 3L A.                                A    ti                              0.45       -       0.45
138                IPh3lMIAEd do, Dmli, L A. - laWmda a Cidn                    NOW Vdc2a.                           LU4        -       LAS
1959               C,puIda IUEde ClAm   bitem,    A.                                 t                               1.0t       -       1.D
1939               OCh¢e Cnu , L A.                                             NIP                                  4.00       -       4.o
1919W1972          Acm Vnllm, U6 A.                                             sia                                  Lao0      1.3      .93
1916/1"19            Wa1  a Oaunme Catrinm. L. A.                               MAIp ad  _w                           .73      3.4      7.19
1S7/1972           Ult1.ezd. L A. - Irmtrdaa Cdo de Mettl2le.tm J  1                 linu                           522       33    1.25
1969                b     I%d_m Undi. L SA.                                     bioSXdem                             5.50      LaU      B3
19W0                 P _licleftin, S. A. luhuUte a Cind.o                       buud1 mte                            5.50      2.5      .3
1971              ICkbu. SL A. IrA1ffLa a Cigdo                                 ha _daEdm                            4.60      1.4       04
1971               Rio Crea  - Cmide do alaim do  i.                            RaIp                                 43D        -       4.90
1972A1975/1961     Cqail d1Co         Ibd l di 1mn                                                                 16914       6.70   175.1
193U/74M/ISl/M8    CO Ihl SldomaL IM        IIShI - MUl                         So.J                                76.97     1227    8924
1973               Citi Ibt_ -d Fe  -                           *ti    bSalt D__t                                    5.00       -        .00
1973/1973/196          ems de Dmb1Infb de Icumin X1o   -   flN,  SL A.   *1 M gs wrd Ial                            650        874    93.74
1974               1rAmim Vlarm. S A.                                                a d imm.it S     q.0 0 W                  -       LOD
1974               Fabics do Tedo T         Cum. L A.                              1                                31.0        -      31AD
1975/1979           q,p_n_.     _  lCaxe i m  irL Ltd.                          zbm M                                6.18      L19      737
1975                  0      o, S. A.                                            1uewded                            100         -      10a00
1976        5         aa  uhua -    l do kmte . SL A.                                                                645       L00      7.45
19*6/1980       1           S. A. -  -1 Caetrm   do T                                                               16.2D       -      1620
1977                RB SL A. Pktxm  lbtu1cm                                     k1m aEd Aledm Cmt'.                 3.L0        -      2D.00
1977                Mtmoso3  do b  te S. A.                                                                         1W          -      M5OD0
1978              COinta UdSou - S. A.                                          I= Ed 1Sid                           7.00      300    10
199                Voim dD f.l ibwan   e  lhudI  S. A.                           Sno  Vdddm                         m00        5.V       .27
191D     l      y     z  do DN Ito S. A. - Mml1m                                bmpmi GE                             2.00       -       L.0
1980               =e   D 1  S/A -D         u - W   n-. Tabards
e C   r   do Cwgi1n                                       kb4J                                350       LOO      450
1980               VlSJm Iaaindm do Ps S. A. - V1=                              ImMid Stea                           5.00       -       5.0
1980               F-  - mes  Iao.id do %Uprqiim                                OEdmSe Ed haitdewmka                15.0W      2.0    17.00
1980       1         mlnda (2aui  L A. A.                                       GedAde Ed Panu_dmls                   -            0.5  O25
19D0               Sorrow Ammid Qdd  a   -1  S/A                                FattSimm                            35.0       600    41.00
1980                buad la AuLd                                                 OEml. d    NUutedmle               43.00 5P0          430
19U1               kuEd2m                                                       3w ad cqAitAl lltb                    -        LB50     L0
1961                CpUa kwASdu de  A           o   -                           Fed Ed Fad 0PUMLq                    550       3.0      L50
196U               TiEdo                                                        aedmi ad  _*UvdEdmie                41LW       4.00   5mo
19611Z             clgm  cm                                                     G       d  ,mwK1m aaUl              40.00      5.00D   450
116                 SAmilsz  S. A.                                              )bw  qxal tM                        30L00      0.5    30.45
1933                Ca R    us  do Fttlpqma OF)                                 1bq  Cmi±  Iia-                                0.06     0.06
ISe       }        Atl_m Fr1Wdfco                                               Food  d Flod PC_amz                 LI0        -       13.W
1963                CaM        amil do Xa (-OM                                  Pak auD                                        -        6.10
DO                 PEA - P*a do Irms SA.                                         "aSpa     rr                       5AOZ      5Lo      6.19
193                 Sm/LA.                                                      Food ad Food Ptuifq                  3.0       2.50     5.
193                                                                             (zCI  at Ed  uItSa  bNoe1m          35.0       -       3500
1931                Caqit& Aicooqdmc MIodi                                         EdS  Ed Ye_odEdlIs               2D.00      4.00    24100
TWOLabel 'km                                                                            .86      96   7 1,019.53
L1- C.Ihdm. 1mm u. _ tOa Ed Sldm                                                      37.07      15.1D    62D
Cmdafm NW Hd b DC                                                                V79        78.54   35733
T.l Ur_ind                                                                            136353    13.49   1.0



-37 -
ANNEX III
Fags I of3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  2* years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  SUDENE and Federal and State
Government Agencies with Bank:
and FAO assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank   :  1982
(d)  Appraisal mission departure        : June 1984
Ce)  Negotiations                       : February 1985
(f)  Estimated Loan Fffectiveness       :  September 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Loan Conditions
(a) rural investment credit would be granted in accordance with terms
agreed with the Bank (paras. 51(d) and 65);
(b) community support grants will not be disbursed until an agreement
between the SCV and the grant ' beneficiaries has been signed
(para. 51(f));
(c) the SCU would be staffed and maintained under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 51 (g));
(d) land would be available for distribution at times and in
quantities agreed with the Bank (para. 53);
(e) the project accounts and the Special Account would be audited by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank (pars. 58);



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(f) the Federal and State Governments would enter into all operatiisg
agreements required to carry out the project (para. 59);
(g) dam design and construction would be subject to periodic expert
review (para. 60);
(h) federal and state executing agencies would employ consultants
upon terms and conditions satisfatory to the Bank (para. 60);
(i) market improvements would be subject to SUDENE approval and would
require a prior agreement between the municipality concerned and
SCU (para. 60);
(j) state monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank at agreed
dates (para. 61);
(k) terms of reference and institutional arrangements for project
evaluation studies would be satisfactory to the Bank and copied
to it (para. 62);
(1) funding p%ocedures would be maintained on the terms agreed with
the Bank (para. 64);
(m) onlending terms would be as agreed with the Bank and adequate
funding will be provided for rural investment credit and for
short-term production credit (para. 65);
(n) irrigation charges and water supply tariffs would be maintained at
adequate levels of cost recovery (para. 66); and
so) procurement procedures (para. 67).
2. Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) All current regional rural special programs would be unified at
the regional and state levels and SDR's staff would be reduced to
agreed levels (para. 56);
(b) the Bank shall have approved final designs for the Serido
irrigation subproject and shall have received proof of acquisition
of the land required therefor (para. 68); and
(c) the Bank shall have received the administrative regulation
(portaria) establishing the funding procedures for the Northeast
Rural Development Program (para. 64).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
3. Special Conditions of Disbursement
(a) CIDA-RN will be reorganized in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
prior to disbursement of any loan proceeds allocated to the water
resource development component of the project (para. 60); and
(b) Bank approval of final designs, resettlement plans and operation
and maintenance plans and receipt by the Bank of proof of land
acquisition, prior to disbursement of any loan proceeds
allocated to finance construction of any public irrigation scheme
(para. 68) except in the case of Serido irrigation subproject (see
para. 2(b) above).
4. Special Conditions of Cancellation
The amount of $1.0 million equivalent, set aside to finance the
construction of one or two additional public irrigation schemes, would
be cancelled if such construction is not justified by prerequisite
feasibility studies and if the funds are not committed to a
specific project approved by the Bank by December 31, 1987 (para. 69).



IBRD I848
46                      r2                        3r                  cce. %.,p >      .
JFO 6";P1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALNTIC
T 2, d~~~~~~ r I A  tv r   c  o    c E A IV .
/                11~~~E R   AZ1 Z
PROP GAM AREA
P A R A                                                              0              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCEAN
50j >¢/ ttr cv,¢,,J;8  E-ne-FiORTALcZAr 
-~~~~~~~ ~~RIO GRANDE  fmcV             ATN                     -
_~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~  -  A--                                                    -- /              --i/         I>Wrrn
FEOfR^L ~ ~   ~    ~     P UITIT         /t- I    t   t                  *C  SbtoAoftssW
IC.                                                                                      lop
A R      NRTEAT  UALEEOPETPRGA
<fJJ^Lo~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ Ewstn Bam-k,n. Rra D.v.amwm Tuct
(        iU°9Crs                                                       -   Irit.rnratiaiia S@Jorjrm
w ~~~~~~~~~~(EdSPIRITO                                           MAO*%m. vrS.t vd .
_"  r6 '>              1'  tJSANTO                                                           DECEMEER 154



_ RD  11684P
N&,,,    '-\n                                 BRAZIL                                       F-A?--- 
.n, -              ~NORTHEAST RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  PROGRAM                                        ,,
\       .- S?5u1                        STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO NORTE
- AsAoiS Roads                    ,O".                                                                                                          MHAVRC
--S.ondauy ,oods               0
oTws                      N aJ-,
State Soundawies                                                                  C
ro YWXz7Lwt                                                      >-                                  )   
*  R4eionl Adfnnistution 01fie\s
N     Roed Priority Amua Sasounfies
Main Climalic Zoo. Soundari \V8
0
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 0                                                                                                          1\
6,00                                                                                                                                NAtAL~,
00 
R   I                                                                                       i
00 '  '  ~~'~~ "  JAr '0






