Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 2391 0-ET
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.7 MILLION (US$26.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
FOR THE
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR DECENTRALIZED SERVICE DELIVERY PROJECT
June 27, 2002
Water and Urban I
Ethiopia and Sudan Country Department
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of March 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr
ETB I=US$ 0.12
US$ I =ETB 8.5
FISCAL YEAR
July - June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADLI                 Agriculture development-led industrialization
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CBDSD                Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery
CFFA                 Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIDA                 Canadian International Development Agency
CPAR                 Country Procurement Assessment Review
CPFA                 Country Profile of Financial Accountability
CPPR                 Country Portfolio Performance Review
CSRP                 Civil Service Reform Program
DFID                 Department for International Development
EMCP                 Expenditure Management and Control Programme
EMP                  Environmental Mitigation Plan
ESRDF                Ethiopia Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund
EU                   European Union
GOE                  Government of Ethiopia
GPN                  General Procurement Notice
GTZ                  Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HRM                  Human Resources Management Programme
IDA                  International Development Association
IDC                  Indefinite Delivery Contracts
I-PRSP               Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ISS                  Interim Support Strategy
MAB                  Ministry, Agency and/or Bureau
MCB                  Ministry of Capacity Building
MEFF                 Macroeconomic Fiscal Framework
MFA                  Ministry of Federal Affairs
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NCBP                 National Capacity Building Program
NGO                  Non-governmental Organization
OM                   Operational Manual
PEP                  Public Expenditure Program
PIP                  Project Implementation Plan
PRSP                 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSCAP                Public Service Delivery Capacity Building Program
QCBS                 Quality and Cost Based Selection
SIDA                 Swedish International Development Agency
SOE                  Statement of Expenditures
UDCBO                Urban Development Capacity Building Office
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
Vice President          Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director        Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager          Alain R. Locussol
Task Team Leader        Sumila Gulyani



Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery Project
CONTENTS
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ...............................................................2
1.   Project development objective ...............................................................2
2.   Key performance indicators ...............................................................2
B   STRA TEGIC CONTEXT ...............................................................2
1.   Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy ...............................................................2
2.   Main sector issues and Government strategy ...............................................................3
3.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................................6
C. PROJECTDESCRIPTION SUMMARY ..............................................................8
1.   Project components ...............................................................8
2.    Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .....................................................9
3.    Benefits and target population ..............................................................9
4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements ...............................................................9
D. PROJECTRATIONALE ..............................................................                         10
1.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................................ 10
2.   Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies . ..................... 12
3.    Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .......................................................... 13
4.    Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .............................................................. 14
5.    Value added of Bank support in this project ..............................................................  14
E. SUMMARYPROJECTANALYSES ..............................................................                   14
1.   Economic ..............................................................                             14
2.   Financial ..............................................................                            15
3.   Technical ..............................................................                            15
4.   Institutional .............................................................. 15
5.   Environmental ..............................................................                        17
6.   Social ..............................................................                               18
7.   Safeguard Policies .............................................................. 19
F  SUSTAINABILITYAND RISKS .............................................................. 19
1.   Sustainability .............................................................. 19
2.   Critical Risks .............................................................. 20
3.   Possible Controversial Aspects ..............................................................      20
G. MAINALOAN CONDITIONS ..............................................................                     21
1.   Board Conditions .............................................................. 21
2.   Effectiveness Conditions .............................................................. 21
3.   Other .............................................................. 21



H. READINESSFOR IMPLEMENTATION ............................................................ 21
I  COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ............................................................                        22
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:      PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY ..........................................................                      23
ANNEX 2:      DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION ..........................................................                2 7
ANNEX 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS ..........................................................                          33
ANNEX 4:      COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY .................                    ......................................... 34
ANNEX 5:      FINANCIAL SUMMARY .......................................................... 35
ANNEX 6 (A): PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS .................                          ......................................... 36
ANNEX 6 (B):      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS ............................... 43
ANNEX 7:      PROJECT PROCESSING TIMETABLE ...........................................................               48
ANNEX 8:      DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE ..........................................................               49
ANNEX 9:      STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS .................                   ......................................... 50
ANNEX 10: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE .......................................................... 52
ANNEX I1: LETrER OF SECTOR POLICY ..........................................................                          54
MAP: IBRD NO. 31158



ETHIOPIA
Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Water and Urban - AFTUl: AFC06
Date: June 27, 2002                          Task Team Leader: Sumila Gulyani
Country Manager/Director: Ishac Diwan        Sector Manager/Director: Alain Locussol
Project ID' P050938                          Sector(s): BA-Civil Service Reform, BD-
Decentralization, UM-Urban Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance (TAL)  Themes (s): Decentralization and Urban Governance
Poverty Targeted Intervention:         X  No
Pr oject Financing Data
Loan           X    Credit         Grant             Guarantee            Other
[Specifyl
for Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Project Cost [US$ml: 29.2                      Co financing IUS$ml:
Total Bank Financing (US$m): 26.2
Has there been a discussion of the IBRD financial product menu with the  N/A
borrower?
Borrower: Government of Ethiopia
Responsible agency: Ministry of Capacity Building
Address:         P.O. Box 1082
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person:  Ato Tefera.Waluwa
Telephone:       251-1-56-47-78          Fax: 251-1-55-33-88    Email: mocb@telecom.net.et
Other Agency(ies):  Ministry of Finance
Address:            P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Telephone:         251-1- 55-20-14       Fax: 251-1-55-13-55     Email: NA
Ministry of Federal Affairs
Address:           P.O. Box 5608
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Telephone:         251-1-15-48-58       Fax: 251-1-51-12-00     Email: mofa@telecom.net.et
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$):
__   FY         2003                     2004                 2005
Annual              7.5                      10.0                  8.7
Cumulative              7.5                      17.5                 26.2
Period implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 9/1/02                         Expected closing date: 12/31/05



2
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery (CBDSD) Project aims to enhance
decentralized service delivery performance by initiating long-term public sector capacity building at the
federal, regional, and local levels. Building public sector capacity through institutional reforms, systems
development, and training would promote effective policy formulation and implementation, particularly
in key sectors such as infrastructure, health, and education.
The proposed project,- envisaged as a first phase of long-term support from the International Development
Association (IDA), seeks to enhance service delivery performance through a coordinated program of: (i)
implementing civil service reforms, (ii) restructuring and empowering local governments, and (iii)
strengthening of the Ministry of Capacity Building (MCB). Over the life of the proposed project, key
reform and capacity building activities will be implemented in selected federal, regional and local
government entities;
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
* Improved prioritization of public expenditures at the federal level and in participating local
governments.
* Increased cost-efficiency and financial sustainability in participating federal and regional Ministries,
Agencies and Bureaus (MABs), and local governments.
* Improved client satisfaction with services delivered by participating federal and regional MABs and
local governments.
* 50% of the subprograms in the NCBP are fully financed and under implementation.
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 21189-ET (Interim-Support Strategy)  Date of Board Discussion: 12/05/2000
The 1997 CAS for Ethiopia (Report No. 17009-ET dated August 19, 1997) was set in the context of a
general atmosphere of peace and stability, the adoption of a Constitution that mandated a federal state
system centered around ethnically based regions, a decisive shift from the dirigist central planning of the
Derg to a market economy, notable success with stabilization and initial round of strictural reforms
centered around deregulation and decontrol, and an ongoing debate on the pace and sequencing of second
generation of reforms. In the CAS, the Bank's proposed lending and non-lending strategy was divided
into four clusters: (i) strengthening policy and capacity; (ii) infrastructure building; (iii) accent on leading
sources of growth; and (iv) focus on policy and human development.
The full implementation of the CAS was interrupted by the border conflict that broke out in May 1998.
After the ceasefire in June 2000, the Government of Ethiopia (GOE) approached IDA to assist with a
post-war recovery program which would address demobilization, emergency humanitarian needs and
reconstruction, while stabilizing the economy and restarting the reform agenda. Accordingly an Interim
Support Strategy (ISS) (Report No. 21189-ET) was prepared and discussed by the Board on 12/05/2002.



3
It aimed to: (i) address the immediate human, infrastructure and economic emergency and to restore the
economy to a path of sustainable growth; (ii) tackle weaknesses in the IDA portfolio accumulated during
the conflict; and (iii) engage in longer term IDA assistance to combat food insecurity, spread of
I.V/AIDS and weaknesses in capacity to deliver essential social services. A new 2002 CAS is under
preparation and it will cover FY03-05 to seamlessly overlap with the ISS. The 2002 CAS will support the
Government's Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP)l and its ongoing consultations for the
full-PRSP.
The Government's I-PRSP states that "reduction of poverty will continue to be the core agenda of the
country's development." This agenda includes (i) an agriculture development-led industrialization
(ADLI) strategy; (ii) judiciary and civil service reform; (iii) decentralization and empowerment; and (iv)
capacity building in public and private sectors. The overarching goal of these reforms is to support
private sector development and promote efficient delivery of public services. Accordingly, the 2002 CAS
wiill have four thrust areas: capacity building, decentralization and service delivery, infrastructure
development, and private sector development.
The proposed CBDSD directly supports the capacity building and decentralization pillars of the I-PRSP
and the proposed 2002 CAS. Specifically, the CBDSD focuses on improving the capacity and enabling
environment required for effectively decentralizing service deliveryand improving delivery performance
at the frontline. It will help address institutional constraints to service delivery at federal, regional, and
local levels through a multifaceted capacity building program. Over its three-year implementation period,
the project will focus on a small number of key federal agencies, two to four key regions, and several
local goverrnents within these regions to design and test institutional change mechanisms as a basis for
longer term reform.
This project is designed as the first phase of a longer term IDA-assisted program to undertake institutional
reforms, develop organizational systems, and deepen the human resource base in order to revive critical
elements of the Government's long-running Civil Service Reform Program, and make democratic
decentralization a reality. As currently designed, the Project would strengthen core technocratic functions
at the federal and regional levels such as fiscal and personnel management, as well as support strategic
rcle restructuring-all of which are necessary to ensure an enabling environment for sound policymaking
and program implementation. At the same, it would begin to build the capacity of local authorities-that
is, municipalities and woredas-to support program formulation, implementation, and service delivery in
ways that are demand-responsive, sustainable, and accountable.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1    Ethiopia's public sector reform and capacity building agenda, 1994-Present
During the 1990s, the Ethiopian state underwent a period of unprecedented institutional change and
restructuring, with potentially far-reaching implications for the ways the Government can help promote
poverty reduction and growth. Most notably, the adoption of the 1994 Constitution resulted in the
creation of a federal state system, centered around ethnically-based regions, within which the woreda
constitutes the basic unit of decentralized, democratic government. According to the Constitution,
regional authorities not only enjoy vast powers in various aspects of public management (especially,
fiscal management), but also shoulder significant new responsibilities in terms of service delivery and
governance. Even as it established this radically new political and state system, the Government was
cognizant of the need for nascent regional and local institutions to be adequately equipped with the
necessary institutional, organization, and human resource endowments to fulfill their new mandates. This
I rhe board date for I-PRSP was Feb. 27, 2001 and the report number is 21769-ET.



4
section discusses Ethiopia's emerging public sector reform and capacity building agenda including the
evolution and efficacy of the Government strategy since 1994.
First generation efforts focused on strengthening core public management systems: In the mid-I 990s, the
regionalization process took place within a public sector context widely acknowledged as being
institutionally weak and capacity-poor. A range of constraints in core public management systems were
identified at the federal and regional levels including a weak legislative framework to guide civil service
management; the absence of a medium-term planning and budgeting framework; ineffective control
systems on financial and personnel management; inadequate wage incentives and inappropriate grading
systems; poor capacity for strategic and cabinet-level decision-making; and insufficient focus on modem
managerial approaches to service delivery. In recognition of these myriad problems, the Government
embarked on a comprehensive-admittedly complex-Civil Service Reform Program (CSRP) in 1996.
Indicative of Ethiopia's "first generation" capacity building efforts, the CSRP sought to build a fair,
transparent, efficient, effective, and ethical civil service primarily by focusing on strengthening core
technocratic systems within the public sector. The Program was built on five pillars: (i) Expenditure
Control and Management, (ii) Human Resource Management, (iii) Service Delivery and Quality of
Service, (iv) Top Management Systems, and (v) Ethics. Successful reforms (for example, of pay and
personnel systems, or government accounting) at the federal level were intended to provide a template or
prototype for regional authorities.
Second generation efforts aim to deepen democratic decentralization: As the Government attempted to
implement the CSRP at the federal level, it became apparent that Ethiopia's historic governance challenge
was more complicated than previously envisaged. The country was seeking to embed a radically new
brand of ethnically-based federalism across a vast, diverse society, while simultaneously delivering a
broader menu of basic services to a predominantly rural populace, historically disempowered under
successive monarchical and dirigiste governments.
Recent diagnostic work suggests that the regional governments have responded to this challenge largely
by using existing systems of administrative hierarchy to undertake development planning, allocate public
resources, and implement service delivery programs. As a result, local governments, and specifically
woredas, have generally emerged as deconcentrated units in program implementation rather genuine,
democratically elected executives in- their own right. In addition to generating various operational
inefficiencies, this form of administrative deconcentration has hindered the development of democratic
and accountable local governments, capable of delivering services in a demand-responsive and
sustainable manner. In addition, opportunities for involving communities, particularly women, more
systematically in all aspects of service delivery (for example, parental management of schools) have been
under-exploited.
In ongoing discussions with IDA and other donors, the Government has acknowledged the importance of
strengthening woreda and municipal governments.by rationalizing administrative structures in regional
bureaus and zonal sections; enabling local governments to take allocative and operational decisions in a
financially sustainable manner; and empowering local communities to hold woreda and municipal
authorities accountable for service delivery. Such efforts to generate bottom-up pressures from and skill
in local governments constitute the largely unfinished agenda of "second generation" capacity building,
which is critical to deepening democratic decentralization.
Capacity building for public service delivery requires a strategic framework: In 2001, the Government
translated its Capacity Building Strategy and Program Framework into a comprehensive National
Capacity Building Program (NCBP) for improving institutional and human capacity across 14 sectors (for
example, civil service reform, justice reform, cooperative, private sector, textiles and garment, banking



5
sector, urban development and higher education). In responding to the Government's request of funding
for the NCBP, IDA has suggested that capacity building proposals for civil service reform, urban
management, and district-level decentralization could be usefully, grouped together as part of a
coordinated effort to improve public sector capacity. It has also noted that, in the public sector, the likely
impact of capacity building efforts is maximized when guided by a strategic framework for structural and
institutional reform. Most recently, the Government and IDA have discussed options for more
systematically linking the unfinished agenda of "first generation" technocratic efforts to "second
generation" efforts to deepen democratic decentralization (see below).
2.2    Institutional development inpact and lessons learned
The results of first generation efforts, comprised primarily of the CSRP and its various sub-components,
were mixed. The Program did support the development of new legislation (for example, a financial
management proclamation, a civil service law, a code of ethics, and a service delivery policy) as well as
procedures and manuals for budgeting, procurement, and some aspects of personnel management.
Training in aspects of budget management such as accounting, procurement, PIP preparation also
progressed. Diagnostic work in these areas also continued.
While commendable, these initiatives have had only modest impact in relieving the institutional and
capacity constraints within the Ethiopian civil service. In addition, there is little evidence of sustained
improvement in output performance at the federal or regional levels. Rather, core functions such as
medium-term planning, accounting and auditing, personnel management remain weak. Attempts to
develop an affordable, medium-term public sector pay policy were delayed, and despite a salary
adjustment in January 2002, civil servants-particularly at the lower levels-still receive extremely low
salaries. Critical to performance improvement, the planned role restructuring across line agencies were
not implemented in part because the necessary reviews of strategic role, legislative mandates,
organizational structures, and staffing requirements were compartmentalized into different components of
the CSRP. These were neither integrated into a process change model nor implemented by line agencies
at the federal or regional level.
Admittedly, the limited impact of the CSRP was due in part to the implementation delay experienced
during the war with the Eritrea and continual demands on the time of the senior GOE officials. However,
several reviews of the Program have also identified lessons related to design and management that can
inform "second generation" reform efforts. Four lessons, in particular, are relevant to future attempts by
the GOE and its development partners to improve frontline, service delivery performance in priority
sectors, critical to poverty reduction.
First, the design and sequencing of CSRP activities were heavily focused on the federal level of
government. First generation reforms were intended to prototype technocratic reforms at the federal
level for later adoption by the regions. However, implementation lags suggest that much-needed
reforms at the regional level will be delayed even further. The opportunity costs in terms of foregone
improvements in institutional and service delivery performance at the regional level are considerable.
There is therefore need to identify alternative modalities for supporting certain institutional reforms
and capacity building activities that can produce short-term results, even as the prototyping of core
technocratic reforms in federal government proceeds.
Second, the strengthening of core budgeting and administrative systems, as supported under the
CSRP, did not automatically lead to improvements in frontline performance. For instance, the
Service Delivery Component of the Program, which helped develop a policy paper on good
management and service delivery processes, was not adequately linked to the role restructuring, pay,



6
and budgeting reforms that are necessary to produce tangible improvements in output performance.
Nor was it clear how the policy would benefit sub-national government, where the primary
constraints on service delivery performance (for example, in infrastructure, health, and education)
resulted from incorporating woredas as deconcentrated units of regional bureaus. Since the basic
units of local govemment-woredas and municipalities-bear the ultimate responsibility for service
delivery, the impact of the core budgetary and administrative reforms under the CSRP depends in
large part on closer linkages with "bottom-up" efforts to empower and enable local authorities.
Third, ongoing work by the Ministry of Federal Affairs (previously Ministry of Works and Urban
Development) to strengthen local governments have revealed the potential across regions for more
concerted "bottom-up" efforts to restructure and empower municipalities and woredas. Specifically,
MFA has helped certain regions in their efforts to reform the legal and accountability framework
within which municipalities operate, and its work has highlighted the need for restructuring of
municipal fnances and streamlining of institutional arrangements that affect service delivery
operations. As the GOE moves to deepen democratic decentralization in urban and rural areas, local
governments are poised to gain from far-reaching restructuring and empowerment activities, and in
the process, provide demand-side pressures on regions to focus more deliberately on frontline
performance.
Fourth and finally, the comprehensive scope of the CSRP and the NCBP seek to address capacity
building programs in a holistic manner. However, the CSRP experience suggests that large scale,
projectized approaches to public sector capacity building can tax the country's limited
implementation capacity. In addition, mutually-reinforcing activities that should have been
implemented in parallel (for example, role restructuring and job re-grading) often followed different
implementation plans. The experience suggests that the design of public sector capacity building
efforts should follow a clear notion of the critical path for reform, as well as a sequencing strategy
that is fitted to the existing constraints on implementation capacity.
These lessons provide the basis for the key issues to be addressed in a proposed program of IDA support
for building capacity for public service delivery. The strategic choices that shaped the design of the
proposed lending program-the CBDSD Project and the PSCAP-are discussed in the following section.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
3.1    Key elements of capacity buildingfor public service delivery
Since its inception, the Government-IDA dialogue on capacity building in the public sector has
acknowledged the importance of a multidimensional approach-one that addresses not only traditional
issues of training associated with capacity building, but underlying institutional deficiencies and
disincentives in Ethiopia's public sector. In addition, the Government has acknowledged that the ultimate
goal of such efforts is to improve the governance and performance of service delivery in decentralized
settings. Reviews of Ethiopia's reform efforts and ongoing consultations indicate that service delivery
performance, particularly in Ethiopia's diverse regions, is hindered by two types of constraints.
The first involves weaknesses in the broader enabling environment, within which planning/prioritization
and implementation takes place (for example, financial management systems, personnel control systems,
incentives, and formal accountability mechanisms). Successful approaches to strengthening the enabling
environment are necessarily systemic in nature, and therefore cut across specific agencies or local
government entities. These systemic reforms have been prototyped in large part at the federal level under
the CSRP (for example, the Expenditure Management and Control Programme or EMCP, as well as the



7
l[uman Resource Management Programme or HRM). While the prototyping phase of the CSRP has
reached an advanced stage in some areas such as the EMCP, other areas such as HRM and accountability
require further efforts to develop the operating systems necessary to improve governance of public
resource management as well as formal checks and balances on public sector performance. In addition,
the CSRP as a whole requires a degree of reformulation in order to ensure a smooth and streamlined
implementation phase, particularly at the regional level.
T he second set of constraints concerns the mandates, institutional capacity, and demand-responsiveness of
specific line agencies and local governments. Even with robust expenditure management and personnel
systems, service delivery improvements require line agencies (federal ministries and regional bureaus)
and local governments (woredas and municipalities) to undergo a process of performance
improvement-namely, role restructuring, functional review, and performance benchmarking. The
challenge for federal and regional authorities in Ethiopia is to develop a framework within which local
governments and line agencies are empowered-that is, given clear incentives-to introduce performance
rnanagement. Several other countries in Africa as well as other regions have developed implementation
rnodalities by which line agencies and local governments are provided access to capacity building funds
and allowed more flexibility in personnel and budgetary rules in exchange for undertaking performance
improvement measures. The GOE has expressed its interest in developing this type of demand-driven,
qfuid pro quo approach to building capacity for democratic decentralization as well as effective service
(lelivery.
3.2    CBDSD Project: Strengthening enabling environment with bottom-up performance
improvements
The CBDSD Project will provide the first leg of IDA support for components of the National Capacity
'Building Programme (NCBP) related to public service delivery. The Project will assist the Government
in completing the prototyping of core expenditure and personnel management systems as well as
accountability mechanisms intended to improve the public sector enabling environment; help restructure
the CSRP for a "full implementation phase" at all levels of government; and empowering local
governments and line agencies to carry out restructuring and performance improvement.
The scale and scope of demand (particularly from regions) for capacity building in order to strengthen the
public sector enabling environment and to empower bureaus and local governments are considerable. By
implication, a programmatic and longer term approach to IDA assistance should wholesale capacity
building at all levels of government, and thereby exploit economies of scale and scope, ensure flexibility,
and deliver assistance in a timely fashion. Such an approach would require that systemic as well as
agency-specific interventions to be sufficientlyprototyped-under the CBDSD Project-to facilitate
effective implementation and monitoring.
3.3    Public Service Delivery Capacity Building Program (PSCAP): Programmatic supportfor
demand-driven performance improvement
As this prototyping process is carried out under the CBDSD project, the preparation of the proposed
Public Service Delivery Capacity Building Program (PSCAP), deliverable in 2003, would identify
financing arrangements by which federal, regional, and local institutions can leverage capacity building
and technical assistance support for the strengthening of public management systems, accountability
institutions and performance improvement efforts. In this way, IDA and other donors would seek to
support the CSRP, District-Level Decentralization, Urban Management, and ICT components of the
NCBP, which are critical for public service delivery. In addition, PSCAP will develop synergies with



8
other programs of the NCBP such as those for the Tax Reform and Justice Sector, which favorably impact
service delivery, in order.to maximize the benefits of the Government's holistic approach.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project components (see Annex 1):
The proposed CBDSD project is to be designed as the first leg of IDA's integrated response to the client's
proposals for assistance in building capacity for improving public service delivery at the federal, regional,
and local levels. Specifically, the project will support completion of prototyping of measures to
strengthen the enabling environment; restructuring of the CSRP for its full implementation phase; and
empowering local governments and line agencies to carry out restructuring and performance
improvement.
It is envisaged that overall CBDSD objective will be achieved through the following three components:
1. Implementing civil service reforns
2. Restructuring and empowering local governments
3. Strengthening the Ministry of Capacity Building
Indicative             Bank-        % of
Component                  Sector     Costs     % of     financing     Bank-
(US$M)     Total     (IS$M)      financing
1. Implementing Civil Service Reforms                 $13.1     45%         12.1         92%
(i) CSRP Coordination and Change
Management
(ii) Resource Management and Control
(iii) Performance and Service Delivery
Improvement
(iv) Accountability and Transparency
2. Restructuring and Empowering Local                 $14.9     51%          13.4        90%
Governments
(i) Federal & regional policy & analysis TA
(ii) Regional TA for deepening decentralization
(iii) Local government restructuring & capacity
building
(iv) Pilot rehabilitation investmnents
3. Strengthening Ministry of Capacity                  $1.2      4%          0.7         58%
Building
Total Project Costs            $29.2    100%         26.2         90%
Total Financing Required            $29.2    100%         26.2         90%
Note: (1) These costs are net of taxes. (2)Of the PPF of US$480,000, US$200,000 is included in Component 1, and
US$280, 000 in Component 2.
These components are described in Annex 2.



9
2.     Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The CBDSD supports a range of policy and institutional reforms at various levels of government. At the
federal and regional level, the project will support the redesign of the CSRP as well as reforms related to
R esource Management and Control and Accountability and Transparency. As far as expenditure
management is concerned, the Credit will support the approval of the Macroeconomic Fiscal Framework
(MEFF) and medium-term Public Expenditure Program (PEP); compliance with the financial calendar;
accounts reform including the transition to a double entry, modified cash system; the establishment of a
single treasury account system as well as cash forecasting; passage of UNCITRAL-compliant
procurement legislation; policies related to spectrum management and monitoring. On personnel
mnanagement, the Credit seeks to support the development and passage of a medium-term pay and
employment policy designed to improve civil service incentives. It will also facilitate development of
basic rules for participation of line agencies in the PSIP.
At the sub-national level, the CBDSD supports the GOE's decentralization initiative by encouraging
participating regional governments to adopt policies and strategies.to strengthen local governments;
clarify their revenue and expenditure responsibilities; and establish predictable intergovernmental fiscal
transfer mechanisms. It will also encourage local governments to adopt new systems of public
participation that enhance transparency, accountability, and consultation in all aspects of local operations.
3.     Benefits and target population:
Given its goal of facilitating the emergence of local governments and federal line agencies that are
f,inancially sound and have the ability and incentives to improve service delivery, especially to the poor,
this project should benefit a broad cross-section of the public in the long-run. In the short- to medium-
i:erm, the target populations include civil servants and their respective agencies at the federal, regional,
,md local levels; civil society groups interested in enhancing good governance; public and private training
institutions; and providers of local public goods.
Project benefits include (i) improved skills and incentives - both at the individual level and agency-wide
-for enhancing performance; (ii) more robust and better managed fiscal and financial systems that
improve resource predictability, enhance transparency and improve availability of quality data; and (iii)
improvements in the financial condition and resource base of local governments and line agencies which
in turn allow them to meet at least minimum service level standards and coverage.
4.    Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The MCB is the lead counterpart agency for the CBDSD project, and is also directly responsible for the
implementation of the components for Civil Service Reform. The MFA, through its UDCBO, is
responsible for implementing activities related to urban management under the component for Local
Government Restructuring and Empowerment.
MCB has established three units that will together be responsible for meeting the fiduciary requirements
for the CBDSD as a whole and for the components focusing on Civil Service Reform. The three units
are: (i) external relations and resource mobilization; (ii) finance and budget; and (iii) monitoring and
evaluation.
Arrangementsfor the Civil Service Reform component. The Coordinating Office will serve as the key
implementing unit for the Civil Service Component. The State Minister for Capacity Building, who is
also the CSRP Coordinator, will be responsible for the overall management and guidance of activities



10
under Component 1. Under the ongoing restructuring of CSRP, implementation or liaison units have
been established within each federal civil service institutions as well as within the Bureaus of Capacity
Building within regions. These units are responsible for implementation of the reforms as well as
monitoring and evaluation of impact. Component I of the CBDSD Project will rely on the Govemment's
implementation structure to ensure effective and efficient project implementation.
Proposals for assistance under the various sub-components will be prepared and submitted to the Program
Director of the CSRP, under the overall guidance of the State Minister for Capacity Building, MCB.
Once reviewed, the Program Director will work closely with beneficiary institutions to finalize TORs,
select consultants, prepare specifications for goods and equipment. Final proposals will be sent to IDA
through MCB staff members designated to undertake project management, procurement, and
disbursement activities related to the CBDSD Project.
Arrangements for the Urban Local Government component. As the key implementing agency for the
urban local govemment component, the UDCBO has established a four-person technical core team which
includes a department head, an economist, an engineer and a sociologist with substantial experience in
urban management and local government/municipal development issues. In the preparatory phase, this
core team has been working directly with the regions to provide information about the CBDSD and help
them prepare and refine their proposals for financing under the Local Government Component.
Subsequently, it will be assisting the regions in various aspects of implementation. UDCBO has a pre-
established procurement unit under its technical department, and a finance department with financial
management systems and manuals that were in used during two previous IDA-financed urban
development projects. A detailed assessment of the financial and procurement systems and capacity of
the UDCBO was conducted prior to appraisal.
Project proposals developed by the regions, in consultation with local governments where necessary, will
be submitted through the Regional Government to the UDCBO. These proposals will be reviewed by a
Technical Committee and then submitted for further review and final approval to the MFA. Based on the
proposals approved, UDCBO will work with the region to finalize TORs, select consultants, and define
specifications for goods required. UDCBO will be responsible for bulk procurement on behalf of the
regions.
The UDCBO will act as the secretariat and the implementing agency, but not as an approving body. The
Technical Committee will be comprised of experts in areas such as local government restructuring and
finance, urban management, civil engineering and environmental analysis. This committee will certify
that applications are technically sound, meet all requirements (of GOE and IDA) and are qualified for
financing. As noted above, final approval authority rests with the MFA.
D. PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Considerable dialogue has taken place with the Government on its NCBP and specifically, those
programs related to capacity building for public service delivery. Discussions have focused on the
assistance required to achieve the Government's priority objectives of improved service delivery and
democratic decentralization. As noted earlier, in-country consultations and reviews of Ethiopia's earlier
public sector reform and decentralization experience have indicated that capacity building efforts should
focus on (i) improving broader enabling environment within which public servants function and services
are delivered and sustained; and (ii) empowering line agencies and local governments to undertaken
vigorous restructuring and performance improvement efforts required for effective decentralized delivery.



I1
The design of the CBDSD has incorporated both sets of capacity building concerns. It also provides the
foundation for the Government's development of a much more substantial capacity building program for
improving public service delivery. Such a program, namely PSCAP, would scale up the prototypes that
are developed and refined under CBDSD.
In addition to the technical rationale for the CBDSD Project and the longer term PSCAP (Sections B and
C', IDA support for building capacityfor public service delivery also responds to the broader strategic
context in which the donor community seeks to assist Ethiopia's development. Given the magnitude of
institutional and capacity constraints across the Ethiopian public sector, IDA is seeking to contribute to a
cciordinated approach to capacity building for technocratic public sector reforms as well as
decentralization. Historically, the IDA's financial support for Ethiopia's civil service reform and capacity
building programs has been limited. However, the reasons for the Government's renewed interest in
having IDA take a lead role in supporting the NCBP are three-fold: (i) IDA's ability to make substantial
investments over longer periods of time, and also to leverage a predictable flow of donor resources in a
programmatic manner as envisaged under the NCBP; (ii) its experience in other countries undergoing
public sector reform and decentralization, and (iii) its analytical resources. Several other donors including
UNDP, the EU, USAID, CIDA, DflD, GTZ, the Government of Italy, and SIDA have been assisting the
Government in aspects of public sector capacity building. DfiD has contributed to the preparation of the
CBDSD project.
Since the end of the 1999-2000 border conflict with Eritrea, Ethiopia has begun to experience a
resurgence of donor aid flows in the form of debt relief, budget support, and investment financing in
infrastructure and the social sectors. Given Ethiopia's decentralized framework, absorbing assistance of
this magnitude implies considerable institutional capacity at the regional and local levels. More
irnportant, translating external assistance into tangible improvements in well-being among Ethiopia's poor
requires demonstrable improvements in fiduciary and operational performance within regions. The
capacity building implications of the Government's agenda are especially urgent as regions begin
irnplementing the Govenment's policy of block grants to woredas, and in some cases, kebeles. Against
this backdrop, the CBDSD Project and the larger PSCAP seek to provide timely as well as longer term
capacity building support for improving public service delivery.
Criven these considerations, traditional sector specific operations, e.g. a Public Sector Reform project and
a Municipal Infrastructure project, were considered and rejected in favor of the cross-sectoral, vertically
integrated capacity building approach embodied in the CBDSD design.



12
2.   Major related projects financed by IDA and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Sector Issue                    Project          Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Sub-projects for poor communities and Social Rehabilitation &     S              S
poverty monitoring and analysis  Development Fund - ESDRF
(ongoing)
ESRDF II (planned)
Education                        Education Sector                 S               S
Development Program
(ongoing)
Health                           Health Sector Development        S               S
Program (ongoing)
HIV/AIDS                         Ethiopia Multi-Sectoral          U               S
HIV/AIDS Project - ESMAP
(ongoing)
Impact of the war on poor households  Emergency Recovery and      S               S
in Tigray and Afar               Rehabilitation (ongoing)
Raising poor women's income      Women Development                S               S
Initiative
Urban                            Market Towns Development          S              U
Project Cr. 2103-ET, US$40.2
million (closed June 1999)
Urban                            Second Addis Ababa Urban         U               U
Development Project Cr.
2161-ET, US$35 million
(closed June 1999)
Water supply and sanitation       Water Supply Development         S              S
and Rehabilitation Project
(ongoing)
Food security                     Food Security (planned)
LIL-Distance Learning
Other development agencies
DffD                             Internal and external audit,
journalism
EU                               Public financial management
support; decentralization
GTZ                              Capacity building for
economic management
SIDA                             Decentralization
USAID                            Budgetary reform;
decentralization
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
The: following lessons from the experience with public sector reform and efforts to strengthen local
governments in developed and developing countries have been identified and incorporated in project
design:
Lessons from the Ethiopian experience:
*  Systemic reforms in Ethiopia need to be tailored to the realities of its federal state system if they are
to produce desirable improvements in institutional and service delivery performance within regions.
*  Reform programs, such as CSRP, must be based on clear priorities and realistic sequencing that
conforms to implementing capacity.
*  Local govemments-woredas and municipalities-are capable of exercising greater allocative
authority with concomitant efficiency gains.
*  Communities can effectively participate in planning, co-management of facilities, and accountability
systems. If empowered to be more systematically involved in service delivery, communities could
improve program implementation, deepen democratic decentralization, and enhance prospects for
poverty reduction.
*  CBDSD has been explicitly designed to address previous difficulties in portfolio implementation by
incorporating demand driven mechanisms for disbursement based on extensive consultation with all
key regional and local actors. As a result of this design approach, preliminary proposals from all
regions have already been received and the aggregate demand for funding exceeds total CBDSD
resources by a significant percentage. Therefore, it is expected that CBDSD implementation will
move forward efficiently and that the broader demand already evidenced in the regional proposals
will be met through PSCAP, the detailed design of which is to commence in July.
General lessons:
*  Government ownership and commitment is key to institutional reforms.
*  Public sector training should be conducted on an agency-wide, demand-driven, and cost-recovery
basis. Historically, entrepren'eurial individuals in the public sector in developing countries have been
able to seek out training opportunities. The binding capacity constraint on frontline performance,
however, is training that is iuiline with institutional demands or agency-wide and objectives. In
addition, various instruments such as matching grant facilities have been developed to ensure that
training is undertaken with sdme element of cost-recovery.
*  Implementation targets should be realistic.
* Intergovernmental "rules of the game" need to be clear, well understood and agreed by all if they are
to be effective. Fiscal flows to sub-national levels should be, to the greatest extent possible,
consolidated thereby reducin'g transaction costs that over-burden limited local capacities. Donors as
well as central government authorities need to abide by this principle.



14
*  Financing should follow function. In the process of decentralization, central governments often
assign responsibilities to local governments without assigning the resources required to accomplish
the task. To be effective, local governments should have access to and control over the financing
required to meet their mandates.
*  Sufficient capacity at central, regional and local levels is necessary for effective decentralization and
effective delivery of local services.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has prepared a comprehensive and detailed NCBP. The Program covers a wide range of
sub-program proposals including those for civil service reform, municipal development, and
decentralization, and these have undergone a detailed internal review process at technical levels. More
importantly, GOE has created a new supra-ministry - the Ministry of Capacity Building - to refine and
lead this program. In addition, the Government has placed ultimate responsibility for coordinating,
restructuring, and monitoring implementation of the CSRP under the State Minister, MCB. This indicates
a high level of commitment to incorporating lessons from the past experience with CSRP as well as
holding senior officials accountable for implementation of the reforms.
As part of its Action Plan, the GOE is also planning to introduce - as early as September 2002 - untied
block grants to woredas. This is envisaged as a first and crucial step toward empowering local
govemments to make their own investment decisions. Regional Governments are moving to review and
enact legislation to enable and empower their local governments. For example, Amhara has enacted
legislation recognizing municipalities as autonomous local government units and other regions, such as
Tigray and Oromia, are following suit. Together these initiatives indicate a very high level of government
commitment to capacity building and decentralized service delivery.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA will add value to the design of the CBDSD Project by drawing on existing reviews of civil service
reform, decentralization, service delivery processes and the status of local governments in Ethiopia, and
leveraging its international experience with public sector capacity building. In addition, IDA's Advisory
and Analytical Assistance (AAA) on public sector and governance institutions in Ethiopia includes its
1999 regionalization study, a 2000 review of the CSRP, the 2000 PER, the 2001 rapid assessment of
municipal decentralization, and the 2001 woreda study all of which contributed to the design and
formulation of CBDSD. Portfolio-wide lessons (for example, from the Ethiopia Social Rehabilitation and
Development Fund and the Emergency Recovery Program) related to the development of demand-driven
modalities for providing assistance, particularly at the local level, were incorporated as well.
E.     SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSES
1.     Economic
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis:           NPV = US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
[ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X] Other



15
Economic evaluation methodology:
The project will finance only some small-scale pilot rehabilitation investments based on
the demands articulated by selected local governments. Criteria for selection of these
rehabilitation investments include preparation of economic and financial justification and
analysis, as part of the proposal or request for financing.
2.     Financial
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
As noted above, proposals for pilot rehabilitation investments will include financial analyses. The project
costs and sources of funds are detailed in Annex 4 and 5
Fiscal Impact: The modest level of resources to be provided through this TA project will not have any
appreciable fiscal impact at the macro level in Ethiopia. The project will, however, have a significant
impact on the development of sub-national fiscal systems. In particular, the project should contribute to
improving the capacity of all levels of government to generate and manage fiscal resources as well as
strengthen systems that will allow government agencies to be held accountable by their constituents.
3.     Technical
N/A
4.    Institutional
4.1    Executing agencies
The implementing agencies for the specific (sub)components are as follows:
Table 4.1: Proposed executing agencies by (sub)component
Component             ~~~Proposed Implementing
Component                             Ae
Agency
1. Civil Service Reform                       MCB
2. Restructuring and Empowering Local          MFA
Governments
3. Strengthening MCB                           MCB
4.2    Project management.
As noted earlier, the MCB is the lead counterpart agency for the CBDSD project, and is also directly
responsible for the implementation of the components for Civil Service Reform and Strengthening of
MCB. The MFA, through its UDCBO, is responsible for implementing activities under the Urban Local
Government Restructuring and Empowerment Component.



16
4.3    Procurement Issues:
Given the limited capacity in the regions and in order to exploit economies of scale and scope, the project
will use Indefinite Delivery Contracts (IDCs) for procuring technical assistance using QCBS selection
method. According to IDA Guidelines, these are defined as follows:
"Indefinite Delivery Contract (Price Agreement). These contracts are used when Borrowers need to
have "on call" specialized services to provide advice on a particular activity, the extent and timing of
which cannot be defined in advance. These are commonly used to retain "advisers" for
implementation of complex projects (for example, dam panel), expert adjudicators for dispute
resolution panels, institutional reforms, procurement advice, technical troubleshooting, and so forth,
normally for a period of a year or more. The Borrower and the firm agree on the unit rates to be paid
for the experts, and payments are made on the basis of the time actually used."
Most of the project funds are to be used for consulting services and many of these can be bundled
together into relatively large IDC packages that can be procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). For example, the local government component can be packaged into three IDCs, worth
approximately about USD 1.5-3.0 million each, with firms being selected or short-listed using the QCBS
method. For individual contracts below US$100,000, the Qualification selection method will be used.
Subsequently, teams of consultants will be mobilized in response to the specific needs of each region and
as and when their services are required. As the clients, the regions draft the TORs and decide on the
consultants to be included in the team for their jurisdiction.
The detailed assessment of the procurement capacity of MCB and UDCBO was completed during
appraisal and agreement was reached with GOE to implement the recommendations for procurement
efficiency improvements identified by this assessment.
4.4    Financial management issues.
Recent assessments of the financial management systems of the country and project implementing
agencies by IDA (CPFA) and EU (Diagnosis of control capacities) show that financial management
systems in the country are weak in general and that there is lack of trained manpower at all levels, but the
control environment is good and there are no accountability issues.
An assessment of the financial management systems for the CBDSD project was conducted in April
2002, in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Financial Management Sector Board in June 2001.
The results are summarized here and discussed in more detail in Annex 6. One of the implementing
agencies, Ministry of Capacity Building (MCB), is new and does not have prior experience in
implementing a donor-financed project. In order to mitigate risk of delays in handling the financial
transactions, it was agreed that MCB will establish an adequate financial management system - including
recruitment of staff with appropriate qualifications and experience - as a condition of effectiveness. The
other implementing agency, UDBCO, has a good system of financial management and is capable of
handling the financial transactions that fall under its purview (i.e. under Component 2).
MCB is responsible for maintaining accounting records and preparing consolidated project financial
statements (including the financial transactions of UDBCO) in accordance with internationally accepted
accounting standards. It is also responsible for getting the consolidated projects accounts audited in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing. Finally, IDA and the Borrower agreed that audit
reports would be submitted six months after the end of each fiscal year.



17
Environmental:
Environmental Category:    FI
5.1   Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emergingfrom this
analysis.
lhe project has been classified as Fl because, under component 2, local governments will act as financial
intermediaries receiving project funds to finance pilot investments for the rehabilitation of existing
infrastructures such as roads, drains, markets, schools, water supply and sanitation systems, and
slaughterhouses.
The subcomponent for pilot rehabilitation investments in infrastructure aims at enhancing local capacity
through a learning-by-doing approach and testing the potential for creating larger scale infrastructure
investment components in follow-on operations to be prepared in FY03 and FY04. Local governments
benefiting from this component will be identified during project implementation through a selection
process based on capacity and demand related criteria. Specific activities eligible for financing will be
selected on a demand-driven basis and will reflect priorities identified by the pilot local governments.
Given that the goal of these pilots is to provide on-the-job training in local governments with very weak
capacity, project screening criteria will ensure that these investments are small and that they do not entail
any significant environmental and social issues. Although rehabilitation activities to be financed under
:his sub-component cannot be identified at this stage, the following steps have been taken to ensure that
these investments comply with IDA's guidelines on environmental and social issues:
(i)    The Operational Manual (OM), delineating the rules and processes for access to funds for
infrastructure rehabilitation, requires that all proposals be accompanied by an environmental
assessment and plan for mitigation measures where necessary. The OM will ensure that there
are: (a) no adverse impacts on the level of soil and water pollution, and (b) no resettlement,
no adverse impact on incomes and no impact on agricultural land. In other words,
infrastructure rehabilitation projects entailing such impacts will be screened out and will not
be funded under the CBDSD.
(ii)   All proposals for financing of rehabilitation projects will be subjected to a thorough review
by a Technical Committee. The committee will include technical specialists who have the
expertise required to review and advise on environmental assessments and mitigation plans,
and ensure that 1Di's safeguard and environmental guidelines are being met.
(iii) The Borrower has prepared and publicly disclosed an Environmental Framework that will:
guide selection of projects and ensure that those with major adverse impacts are screened out;
create mechanisms for addressing potential environment and social impacts; and delineate
how environmental capacity building requirements are going to be identified and met as part
of a larger capacity building program for local governments. This framework incorporates
points (i) and (ii) above.
As described in Annex 2, under Component 2 of the project, the participating local governments and
regions will prepare a needs assessment and proposals for capacity building in various areas. The project
will provide TA to these goveirnmnents to help them prepare these assessments and proposals and the better
proposals - as determined by a separate Technical Committee - will subsequently also be funded under
the project. Environmental capacity is integral to a well functioning local government, and will be
explicitly covered under these broader capacity building programs prepared by regional and local
governments.



18
5.2    What are the main features of the EM]' and are they adequate?
An environmental framework has been prepared and disclosed. It outlines a screening process, mitigation
measures, institutional arrangements, and environmental training needs.
5.3    For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
An environmental framework has been prepared in lieu of an environmental analysis.
5.4    How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft
EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
n/a
5.5    What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The environmental framework includes a monitoring plan.
6.     Social
6.1    Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
For the reasons specified in para 5.1 above, the project would pose no social issues or risk. The
rehabilitation investments would be small and would be in built-up areas/settlements. There would be no
impact related to vulnerable groups, indigenous peoples, or cultural property. As noted earlier, the
Operational Manual will disallow funding for projects that involve resettlement or entail adverse impacts
on incomes or agricultural land. The Technical Committee will ensure that these guideline are being
followed and that the projects selected for financing comply with IDA's social and safeguard policies.
6.2    Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The key stakeholders in this project are federal, regional and local governments and the pilot agencies
will themselves identify the package of support and training that they receive under the CBDSD.
6.3    How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
n/a.
6.4    What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
n/a
6.5    How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
n/a



19
Safeguard Policies
:7.   Do any of the following safeguards apply to the project?
Policy                                  Applicability
X    Environmental Assessment             X     Yes             No
Natural Habitat                            Yes       X     No
Forestry                                   Yes       X     No
Pest Management                            Yes       X     No
Cultural Property                          Yes       X     No
Indigenous People                          Yes       X     No
Involuntary Resettlement                   Yes       X     No
Safety of Dans                             Yes       X     No
Project in International Waters            Yes       X     No
Project in Disputed Areas                  Yes       X     No
7.2   Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard
policies.
*The Borrower has prepared an Environmental Framework that will guide selection of projects and ensure
l hat those with major adverse impacts are screened out, and will create mechanisms for addressing
potential environmental and social impacts.
F.    SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1.     Sustainability
Component I of the proposed CBDSD will utilize existing project management structures established
under the Government's National Capacity Building Program during implementation. It is envisaged that
this approach will channel the benefits of IDA assistance-including process change, institutional change,
learning, and capacity building-through existing GOE processes and procedures. Moreover, the
approach will limit problems of mainstreaming that typically arise near the close of investment projects.
Components 2 and 3 require that beneficiaries make prior commitments to sustained institutional reform
and organizational change (for example, by meeting eligibility criteria related to financial or institutional
performance or through providing matching funds) in order to maximize the likely impact of capacity
building support from IDA.
Finally, CBDSD represents the first leg of IDA support for public sector capacity building. Project
benefits and lessons learned aie expected to directly inform the design of a more substantial Public
Service Delivery Capacity Building Program, which would inter alia commit IDA to a longer term
program of capacity building support in Ethiopia.



20
2.     Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of
Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk     -    Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
From Outputs to Objective
1. Regions and other line agencies and  M     Policy dialogue; the restructuring local
local governments do not adopt the             governments and agencies share experience
restructuring prototypes developed under       with others; incentives and funding under the
the project                                    proposed FY 03 Public Service Delivery
Capacity Building Program (PSCAP).
2. Trained staff are not retained and    M     The GOE is implementing several civil service
effectively deployed towards improving         reforms, including wage reform, to improve the
decentralized service delivery                incentives environment
From Components to Outputs
1. CSRP is not re-structured, and       M     Intra-governmental workshop, chaired by PM,
Performance and Service Delivery              to set direction and clarify ministerial
Improvement Program is not designed,          responsibilities on the CSRP
with clear accountability relationships
2. Participating regions, line agencies  M    Sharing of international experience; incentives,
and local govermments are not willing         including funding, to encourage reform; expert
and able to implement restructuring and       advise and support for implementation;
performance improvement                       participation in federally funded training and
capacity building programs
3. Participating regions do not remain  M     Policy dialogue, Federal mandate to commence
committed to decentralization and do          block grants to woredas, Federal
not clarify intergovernmental fiscal and      policy/guideline on local government is under
legal framework                               preparation; demand from constituents of
empowered local governments
Overall Risk Rating                  M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
Key risk factors affecting sustainability include waning political commitment on the part of federal and
regional authorities to the reform agenda and implementation strategy; weak capacity of counterparts,
particularly at the managerial levels, to ensure adherence to the implementation timetable; and the impact
of exogenous factors such as a resumption of hostilities with Eritrea.
3.     Possible Controversial Aspects
None.



21
G.     MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
1.     Board Conditions (Complete)
The Government would submit to IDA, the Letter of Sector Policy duly signed by the Minister of Finance
and Economic Development.
2.     Effectiveness Conditions
(a)    the Borrower has established the accounting and financial management system for the Project,
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)    the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited the required initial amount;
(c)    the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Plan in form and substance satisfactory to
the Association;
(d)    the Borrower has prepared the procurement plan for the first year of Project implementation,
satisfactory in form and substance to the Association;
(e)    the Borrower has appointed to the staff of MCB at least one Procurement Specialist and one
Financial Management Officer with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association;
and
(f)    the Letter of Undertaking for the implementation of Component 2 of the Project has been entered
into between MCB and MFA in the form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
3.     Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements]
Accounts and Audits: (a) The Government would submit to IDA not later than six months of the end of
each fiscal year certified copies of the audited financial and an opinion on such statements, records and
accounts and report of such audit by the auditors; and (b) Government to submit quarterly Financial
Monitoring Reports in formats and with content agreed during negotiations. It was agreed that the
Borrower would appoint the auditors by no later than May I, 2003.
Monitoring, Review and Reporting: (a) The Government would undertake a Mid-Term Review of the
Project no later than January 31, 2004; and (b) submit semi-annual progress reports to IDA.
Implementation: The Government would carry out CBDSDP in accordance with the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP).
H.     READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
[ ] la) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[X ] 1. b) Not applicable.



22
[ ] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X ] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
] 4.The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G).
I.     COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
[X] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
kam Leader             |        tEPic R  F           |  Ishac Diwan
*am Leader                   etr     nager                  Country Director



23
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
ETHIOPIA: Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery
Hierarchy of        Key Performance
Objectives            Indicators        Data Collection Strategy  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS  Sector Indicators:     Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank
Goal:                                                               Mission)
1. Support deepening  1.1. Constitutional and  1.1 Regional proclamations, 1. Resource allocation and
cf decentralization  legal framework enabling  budgets, and fiscal reports  program implementation by
local responsibilities and  1.2 Public expenditure  local governments is pro-
authority               reviews                  poor and the poor are
1.2.Increasing regional  1.3 Sector studies     involved in the process.
and local share of
expenditures and revenues
1.3. Transparent and
predictable transfer
arrangements
1.4. Increased regional and
local control over
personnel management
and service delivery
decisions
1.5. Enhanced regional
and local accountability
downwards to citizens
2. Build public sector  2.1 Improved credibility  2.1 Public official surveys  2. Public servants actively
capacity for service  and predictability of  2.2 Public expenditure  carry out government
clelivery at federal,  policymaking and    reviews                  efforts to improve access of
regional, and local  planning               2.3 Country Financial   the poor to essential
levels              2.2 Enhanced           Accountability Assessment  services, and enhance their
transparency of        2.4 Governance AAA       opportunities for asset
expenditure prioritization                      creation and voice.
2.3 Improved incentive
framework for public
servants at all levels
2.4 Rigorous monitoring
and evaluation systems, as
well as financial
accountability
mechanisms



24
Project Development Outcome / Impact        Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:          Indicators:
To enable           1.1 Improved            1.1 Annual budgets,      1. GOE remains conmmitted
improvements in     prioritization of public  including inter- and intra-  to a strategy that combines
decentralized service  expenditures at the federal sectoral priorities, at  cross-cutting reforms with
delivery performance  level and in participating  federal, regional, and local  performance improvement
by initiating long-  local governments     levels                   for line agencies and local
term public sector                          1.2 Public Expenditure   governments.
capacity building                           Reviews                  2. Civil service and local
through institutional  2. Increased cost-   2.1 Cost efficiency surveys  government reforms are
reforms, systems    efficiency and financial  2.2 Local government and  implemented effectively
development, and    sustainability in      facility-level budgets    and widely across the
training at the federal, participating federal and  2.3 Public Expenditure  country.
regional, and local  regional MABs and local  Reviews
levels              governments             2.4 Supervision reports
2.5 Evaluation reports
3. Improved client      3.1 Client and household
satisfaction with services  surveys
delivered by federal and  3.2 Public Expenditure
regional MABs and local  Reviews
governments.
4. 50% of the           4.1 Supervision reports
subprograms in the     4.2 Evaluation reports
Borrower's NCBP are
fully financed and under
_implementation



25
Output from each    Output Indicators:      Project reports:         (from Outputs to
Component:                                                           Objective)
1 a. Restructuring and  1.1 Strategic plan and  1. I Supervision reports  1. CSRP and local
performance         restructuring review    1.2 Evaluation reports   government restructuring
iinprovements       completed                                        prototypes are scaled up
undertaken in select  1.2 Performance
a,gencies at federal  benchmarks developed                           2. Trained staff are retained
level and in regions  1.3 Institutional charters                     and effectively deployed
developed for line                               towards improving
agencies                                         decentralized service
I lb. Budgeting,    1.4 Budgeting, planning,  1.1 Supervision reports  delivery
planning, accounting,  and accounting procedures 1.2 Evaluation reports
anid personnel      implemented
mrLanagement systems  1.5 Personnel management
developed at federal  procedures developed and
level and in select  implemented
regions.            1.6 Information systems
installed for financial and
personnel management
2 a. Restructuring of  2.1 Number of regions  2.1 Local government
select local         adopt and enact local  budget documents
governments          government legislation  2.2 CFAA
2.2 Guidelines or acts  2.3 Public expenditure
clarifying expenditure  reviews
responsibilities, local  2.4 Supervision reports
revenue base, and       2.5 Evaluation reports
formulae for transfers to
__________________ local governments
2. b. Regional and   2.3 Number of trained  2.6 Quarterly reports from
Iclcal staff trained in  beneficiaries employed  PIU, beneficiary, and
ciitical skill areas  and retained in regional  provider institutions
increased            and local agencies     2.7 Supervision reports
2.8 Evaluation reports
3 Coordination and   3.1 No. of staff with  3.1 Supervision reports
mn anagement capacity  management,          3.2 Evaluation reports
oF MCB increased     procurement and planning
skills
3.2 No. of staff with
___________________  policy  skills



26
Project Components Inputs: (budget for each     Project reports       (from Components to
l Sub-components:        component)                                        Outputs)
1. Implementing civil  $13.1 million       1. Bi-annual monitoring  1. CSRP is re-structured,
service reforms                            reports including        and Performance and
management, financial and  Service Delivery
disbursement reports    Improvement Program is
designed, with clear
2. Restructuring and  $ 14.9 million       2. Evaluation of contracts  accountability relationships
empowering local                                 .                  2. Participating regions, line
eovernment                                 3. Audits and evaluation  agencies and local
3. Strengthening of  $1.2 million          reports                  governments are able to
MCB                                                                 implement restructuring and
4. Implementation        performance improvement
Completion Report        3. Participating regions
remain committed to
decentralization and clarify
intergovernmental fiscal
and legal framework



27
ANNEX 2: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRrTION
ETHIOPIA: Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery
Br Component:
Component 1. Implementing Civil Service Reforms (US$13.1 million)
This Component seeks to complete the prototyping of CSRP activities and support the launch of the full
imiplementation phase of the CSRP at the federal, regional, and local levels. As a basis for full
implementation, the Government has acknowledged the need for stronger coordination and change
m;magement, high-level commitmnent, redesign of the CSRP architecture (reformulating the original five
pillars of Expenditure Management, and Control; Human Resource Management, Service Delivery,
Ethics, and Top Management Systems), and the development of a process change modality that provides
an incentive for carrying out restructuring and performance improvement across ministries, agencies, and
bureaus (MABs) at the federal and regional levels.
In addition, certain areas of the original CSRP, which are critical to service delivery performance (for
example, human resource management, automation of financial management systems, accountability
systems), have lagged and require immediate support to complete prototyping at the federal level. Also,
key elements of a robust performance improvement strategy were lacking in the original CSRP concept
and require rapid developing in preparation for a more vigorous implementation phase within
regions.Pursuant to the rapid implementation of CSRP, the Component will support the following
capacity building initiatives:
PROTOTYPING PHASE          IMPLEMENTATION PHASE
Expenditure                         an d
ManagementL.atn n
and Cenir ug mn~,
Human Resourme
I Mmaaagmeni 
bl-------t  >  2.  F  Control  4. AcCOIL.ntSiIte
[ Service  ra                   toagemtent  a-d trmnsA qc)
T  Ethics
TGManagement
| Syittems lt
CA1RP Coordination and Change Management. Following the reorganization of Government in 2001,
responsibility for the coordination and overhaul of the CSRP has been given to a new State Minister in
the newly established Ministry of Capacity Building (MCB). In addition to establishing these new
coordination arrangements, the Government is establishing clear accountabilities for CSRP
irniplementation among heads of ministries and agencies across the civil service. Reporting arrangements
in all civil service institutions at the federal and regional levels are being established to ensure regular
monitoring of CSRP's progress.
The sub-component will therefore provide technical assistance and capacity building support to the new
CS'RP Coordinating Office in the MCB including short and long-term advisory support on the design and



28
roll out of the full implementation phase of CSRP. It will also finance local and international training for
key civil servants in public sector reform issues; study tours to assess various approaches to public sector
reform and decentralization in developing and OECD countries; and dissemination of CSRP-related
materials.
Resource Management and Control. The Resource Management and Control activities of CSRP involve
strengthening expenditure as well as personnel management and control systems-originally supported
under the Expenditure Management and Control, and Human Resource Management pillars of the
prototyping phase of CSRP. While several aspects of Resource Management and Control have reached
an advanced stage of protoyping (for example, the accounting, budgeting, and planning reforms with the
supportof USAID, EU, and UNDP), other areas require additional assistance before the launch of the full
implementation phase.
This sub-component will therefore help complete the prototyping of budgetary and personnel
management systems. Specifically, it will support the roll-out of the Budget Information System (BIS)
and the interim Budget, Disbursement, and Accounts System (as a basis for the development of IFMIS)
across federal institutions and in regional finance bureaus. Taken together the roll out of BIS and BDA
systems at the federal level will provide an important transitional step to the development of a fully
Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS). In addition, the sub-component will
finance training in procurement at the regional and federal levels; and strengthening of existing treasury
operations and support for the cash management project. In addition, prototyping of human resource
management systems will be completed through the provision of advisory support for job classification
and grading, and the development of a medium-term pay and employment policy; training in the new
perfornance appraisal system for federal and regional officials; short-term support for automation of
personnel records and filing; and the development of a Human Resource Information System (HRMIS) at
the federal level.
Performance and Service Delivery Improvement.
As a basis for the full implementation phase of CSRP, the MCB is developing a Performance and Service
Delivery Improvement Program (PSIP) that will provide an incentive for ministries, agencies, and
bureaus (MAB) to carry out restructuring and performance improvement measures in exchange for
focused capacity building support. Specifically, PSIP would require a standard set of prior actions from
MABs such as a review of legislative mandate, role, functions, and accountability relationships; an
analysis of organizational performance and agreement on indicators; and the development of an
implementation plan for restructuring, capacity building, and performance improvement within an agreed
upon timetable. Once such criteria were met, an MAB would be able to access resources available to
support capacity building necessary to realize its performance objectives.
This sub-component will support the development of a basic framework for PSIP along with resources for
its implementation in a total of ten MABs including five federal bodies such as the Ministry of Federal
Affairs (MFA), MOFED, the Federal Civil Service Commission, and Ministry of Capacity Building, and
five regional bodies such as the Bureau of Finance and Economic Development and the Bureau of Works
and Urban Development in one region. The experience of participating MABs will be reviewed and
lessons incorporated to refine the PSIP modality, and define an operational manual for the roll out of
PSIP at all levels of government.
Accountability and Transparency. During the full implementation phase of CSRP, it is envisaged that
Accountability and Transparency activities would involve strengthening mechanisms for fiduciary
accountability (such as external audit, parliamentary oversight, and the development of the accounting
and auditing profession) as well as the promotion of monitoring of operational performance including
client satisfaction, budget execution and cost-efficiency at all levels of government. This also includes
innovative mechanisms of community and civil society participation in public sector performance.



29
This sub-component of the Credit will help complete the prototyping of Accountability and Transparency
activities under the CSRP. Specifically, it will support the development of the accounting and auditing
professions; and the promotion of various techniques for monitoring and evaluating (M&E) public sector
performance in line with the requirements of the National Service Delivery Policy and the National
Charter on Citizens Rights and Responsibilities. Several approaches will be promoted such as
expenditure tracking surveys, cost efficiency studies, service delivery report cards, as well as governance
surveys. After an initial testing phase, the sub-component will help develop an operational manual to
guide the management of a Performance Tracking Facility that scales up support, on a demand-driven
basis, the strengthening of M&E by MABs, local governments, citizen groups, and civil society.
Component 2. Restructuring and Empowering Local Government (US$14.9 million)
The main objective of this component is to start'and facilitate the process of building local governments
that are financially sound and have the ability and incentives to improve service delivery, especially to the
poor. This component will address three key constraints to the provision of services at the local level:
finance, capacity and an unclear mandate for local authorities. Specifically, it will support:
*  technical assistance to regional and local governments in the process of establishing and/or
improving the legislative, fiscal, administrative and institutional frameworks that determine their
mandates, their financial base, and the incentives for improving performance;
*  training of regional and local staff
*  technical assistance for restructuring of local government agencies to enhance capacity in
delivering basic physical services such as water supply, sanitation, drainage, access roads and
basic social services such as primary health and education;
*  pilot investments for infrastructure rehabilitation in selected local governments to facilitate
learning-by-doing and to test the feasibility of a larger scale infrastructure investment components
in the proposed follow-on operations, specifically the FY03 PSCAP and the FY04 Local
Infrastructure and Service Delivery Project.
The assistance will be structured as follows:
(i) Federal and regionalpolicy and analysis TA. A broad regional TA program, available to all
regions and key federal agencies, focusing on policy and design of strategies for strengthening local
governments. This subcomponent will also provide financial support and TA for facilitating
implementation and coordination of various activities under the component to the relevant federal and
regional agencies.
(ii) Regional TAfor deepening decentralization. A TA program targeted on 2-4 regions that are
relatively more advanced in their decentralization process and are committed to deepening the
process. The TA will support creation of enabling frameworks - legislative, administrative, fiscal and
institutional - at the regional level for local governments; a special emphasis will be placed on
clarification of intergovernmental fiscal relations. Under this subcomponent, financing will also be
available for training of regional and local government staff in basic skill areas. Finally, these regions
will identify a set of pilot local governments which will be eligible for additional financing for local
government restructuring and capacity building (see below).
(iii) Local government restructuring and capacity building. This sub-component will focus on
building capacity of a set of pilot local governments (municipalities and woredas), within the targeted
regions, to deliver services in an efficient, accountable and financially sustainable manner. The idea
is to select more than one local governments in each of the 2-4 targeted regions, to achieve broader
impact. It is expected that these pilots will provide lessons and/or models to encourage all regions to



30
adopt broader and large-scale programs for building local government capacity for enhanced service
delivery.
(iv) Pilot investments for infrastructure rehabilitation. This is envisaged as a modest fund available
to the pilot local governments for financing rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, essentially to
facilitate learning-by-doing and to test the potential for creating a larger scale infrastructure
investment components in follow-on operations to be prepared in FY03 and FY04.
Activities eligibleforfunding
The component will provide assistance in activities in the following broad areas: (i) legislative and policy
reform at the regional level; (ii) review and enhancement of intergovernmental fiscal relations, especially
the framework governing regional, zonal and local relations; (iii) capacity building and training activities
for regional and local governments, with an emphasis on building operational and agency-wide skills in
front line agencies; (iv) restructuring of local governments in the selected/targeted regions; and (v) pilot
rehabilitation investments in some of the selected woredas and municipalities. Examples of activities that
the project will fund include:
*  drafting of regional-level legislation and implementation guidelines for enabling or empowering
local governments
* review and restructuring of roles and responsibilities of local governments
*  improving the intergovernmental fiscal framework to increase the amount, reliability and control
over funds that are transferred to and managed by local governments
* enhancing fiscal performance of local governments (budgeting, enhancing own-source revenues,
expenditure management etc.)
* providing on-the-job or other short-term training to local government agencies and staff
(including training in basic skills such as bookkeeping/accounting and in areas such as financial
management, project planning and implementation, land information and management, contracts
administration, operation and management of infrastructure etc.)
* training of newly elected local government councils
*  strengthening human resource or personnel systems at the local level through the introduction of
performance incentives and/or incorporation of innovative changes introduced through the CSRP
at the federal level
*  pilot rehabilitation investments in selected local government jurisdictions
Access criteria at the regional and local levels
Access to project funds will be based on a combination of supply-side requirements (essentially, capacity
and commitment) and an articulation of demand. Specifically, regional and local governments that meet
certain minimum capacity-related criteria and demonstrate commitment to reform will be eligible to
access project resources. Selection of activities and projects will be demand-driven - that is, eligible local
governments will themselves identify the priority tasks to be funded by the project and will provide co-
financing as an indicator of their demand. The "rules of access" to the financing available under the four
sub-components are presented in detail in the Operational Manual (OM). The section below outlines the
types of access criteria, and thereby the principles, codified in the OM.
(i) All regions would be eligible for the broad TA program. Access to this package of assistance
would be based on regional council resolutions that demonstrate commitment to entering into a
serious process of decentralizing policy formulation and implementation. The OM delineates the
relevant rules and processes.



31
(ii) The key criteria for selecting the 2-4 target regions are that they should be relatively advanced in
their decentralization process, should be committed to deepening that process, and should have
certain minimum institutional and financial capacity. Access criteria - presented in the OM - hence,
include indicators such as:
a) Appropriate regional legislation fully establishing local government, including municipalities;
b) Resolutions enacted by duly elected regional and local government councils confirming
commitment to participate in the project and to enact reforms identified through the capacity
building process, including-where necessary-initial restructuring of local governments to
hire qualified and well-compensated technical and managerial staff; and
c) Identification of a regional steering committee including an appropriate mix of elected and
appointed officials from participating local and regional entities.
(iii) The criteria for selecting pilot local governments for restructuring within the targeted regions -
presented in the OM - include:
a) Evidence of local government's ability for fiscal and financial management, including
statements of account for at least two preceding years;
b) Commitment toward implementation of local government restructuring plans; and
c) Evidence that the local government has technical employees who can manage basic service
delivery.
Restructuring plans that are reviewed and approved by appropriate screening committees will be
eligible for additional financing to support implementation of the restructuring plan, including
purchase of durable goods and specialized training for local government staff specified in the
approved plan.
(iv) Selection criteria for pilot rehabilitation investments are presented in the OM. The pilots will
focus on rehabilitation of infrastructure such as roads, drains, water supply and sanitation systems,
markets, slaughterhouses, schools and clinics. In addition to criteria under (iii) above, access to the
pilot rehabilitation investment fund will be governed by the following types of indicators:
a) Submission of capital investment plans, including explicit and credible arrangements for
operation and maintenance of the proposed investments;
b) Evidence that the proposed investments have been identified through a thorough process of
consultation with local communities; and
c) Analysis of the economic benefits, financial viability and environmental and social impacts,
if any, of the proposed investments.
Trainingfor regional and local government staff
Under subcomponent 2, financing will be available for "bulk" training of regional and local government
staff in basic skills such as bookkeeping/accounting, planning and management. The options or
modalities for providing such training support under the CBDSD include direct contracting through pre-
qualified regional institutions, matching grants, and scholarships to be availed by individuals at
institutions of their choice. The options for delivering the training are currently under study and an
assessment of the supply side of trAining in selected regions is also underway. The results of these studies
will be used to develop an Operational Manual (OM) which will delineate the rules for accessing training
fuinds.
Fin,ncing will also be available for more specialized training for staff in local governments that are being
restructured. The training will be based on needs identified in the approved restructuring plans and is



32
likely to include areas such as land information and management systems, contracts administration, and
operation and management of infrastructure.
Component 3. Strengthening of Ministry of Capacity Building (US$1.2 million)
This component will provide financing to strengthen the Ministry of Capacity Building (MCB) as the lead
coordinating agency for the development and implementation of National Capacity Building Program
(NCBP), and especially sub-programs related to public service delivery, as well as those related to private
sector development, rural development, higher education and civil society. As a new ministry with a
considerable mandate, the MCB is currently in the process of articulating its role, developing national-
level programs and strategies, and recruiting and realigning staff and other resources.
This component will support the MCB by financing the following kind of assistance: (i) TA, especially
international experts, to assist with refinement of their programs and strategies based on international
experience and best practice; (ii) study tours, particularly to other countries in the region; (iii) hiring of
consultants to assist with certain critical systems and functions; (iv) procurement of certain equipment;
and (v) short-term and on-the-job training for staff.



33
ANNEX 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
ETHIOPIA: Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery
Project Cost By Component                 Local       Foreign       Total
.US $million  US $million  US $million
1. Implementing civil service reforms                    2.2          9.5          11.7
2. Empowering and Restructuring Local Govt.               5.6          7.4         13.0
3. Strengthening MCB                                      0.6         0.5           1.1
Total Baseline Cost                                       8.4         17.4         25.8
Physical Contingencies                                   0.7          1.5          2.2
Price Contingencies                                      0.3          0.9          1.2
Total Project CostsI              9.4         19.8         29.2
Total Financing Required               9.4         19.8         29.2
Project Cost By Category                 Local       Foreign       Total
US$million   US$million   US$million
Subprojects                                               8.5         4.2          22.7
Goods                                                     0.4         2.8           3.2
;Services                                                 0.2          1.4          1.6
Training                                                  0.3          0.9          1.2
_PPF                                                                   0.5          0.5
Total Project Costs    9.4         19.8          29.2
Total Financing Required     9.4         19.8         29.2
ANote: All costs are net of indirect taxes



34
ANNEx 4: COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS SuMMARY
ETHIOPIA: Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery
Not applicable



35
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL SUMMARY
ETHIOPIA: Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1    Year 2   Year 3
2002-03  2003-04   2004-05    Total
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs                7.9      10.7      9.8     28.4
Recurrent Costs                 0.3       0.3      0.2       0.8
Total Project Costs               8.2      11.0     10.0     29.2
Total Financing                   8.2      11.0     10.0     29.2
Financing
IDA                            7.5      10.0      8.7      26.2
Government                     0.7       1.0      1.3       3.0
Total Project Financing       8.2      11.0     10.0      29.2



36
ANNEX 6 (A): PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
ETHIOPIA: Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery
General
A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was conducted in August 1998. As per the findings
of the CPAR various activities have been commenced by the GOE to improve the procurement
environment. The key actions carried out to date include (i) GOE has redrafted its financial and
procurement directives; (ii) the Procurement Manual has been prepared; (iii) a department has been
established under the Ministry of Finance and Economic development to coordinate the reform program
and monitor procurement activities; (iv) a procurement tacking system has been established; and (v)
training has been provided to MoF and other government staff on procurement. In general, the Ethiopian
Law and regulations do not conflict with IDA guidelines. A second CPAR has commenced and expected
to be completed by June 2002.
The various activities under the procurement reform program are expected to create a conducive
environment that would facilitate the implementation of the project.
Use of Bank Guidelines
All contracts under IDA finance for civil works and goods will be procured in. accordance with IDA's
Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, lastly revised in January
1999). The IDA's Standard Bidding Documents for Goods and Works, the Standard Pre-qualification
Document and the Standard Bid Evaluation Forms shall be used.
Procurement for consultant services will take place in accordance with the IDA's Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, lastly revised in
January 1999). IDA's Standard Request for Proposals will be used and Forms of Contracts as needed
(lump-sum, time-based, and/or simplified contracts for short-term assignments and individual
consultants) as well as the Sample Form of Evaluation Report for the Selection of Consultants.
Advertising
General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and issued in the United Nations Development
Business listing for all goods and works contracts above US$200,000 and large contracts for consultants
services (above US$200,000 equivalent) to obtain expressions of interest and to draw-up a pool of solid
candidate firms from which to compile the short list. Sufficient time will be allowed (minimum of 30
days) before preparing the short list, and (c) the GPN will be updated annually for those contracts still to
be let.
Related pre-qualification or bidding documents, as applicable, will not be released and the short list for
consultant services will not be prepared - before eight weeks after the GPN has been published. The GPN
will be updated annually for those contracts still outstanding. A GPN will also be issued in the national
press or official gazette for contracts to be let under NCB. Specific Procurement Notices (SPNs) for
goods and works will be advertised in the national press of wide circulation, and internationally for large
contracts (ICB). Sufficient time will be allowed to obtain the bid documents.



37
.1. PROCUREMENT CAPACITY
The Ministry of Capacity Building being a newly established ministry has very limited experience in
procurement as an organization. There is a procurement officer who is presently handling the
procurement works in the ministry. In order to enhance the capacity of the ministry additional key
procurement staff with adequate qualification and experience shall be employed. A detail job descriptions
which defines the duties and responsibilities of all staffs involved in the procurement process shall be
developed and adopted.
Trhe Urban Development Capacity Building Office (UDCBO) that is under the Ministry of Federal Affairs
has been handling IDA financed projects and has the experience and capacity to handle procurement
activities. However, the procurement officer who has been handling most of the procurement activities
has left the office due to the completion of the previous IDA financed project. Consequently, the
procurement officer position is presently vacant and a new staff has to be employed. It would be
advantageous if UDCBO could re-employ the procurement officer. The roles and responsibilities of the
various implementing agencies are outlined in the PIP
In order to build the procurement management capability of the MCB and UDCBO and clearly define the
roles of the various beneficiaries of the project the following actions will be taken.
*  A procurement manual which would form part of the Operation Manual that provides a general
instruction on all procurement activities will be developed and adopted. The manual shall provide
information on (i) implementation arrangements (procurement authority and decision making
process) (ii) procurement procedures, (ii) applicable procurement methods (iii) monitoring
system, (iv) payment procedures and other key procurement functions.
*  A procurement data management system will be developed and adopted. The system will insure
that appropriate data are maintained at various levels and the central office has comprehensive
information on all procurement activities.
*  Orientation will be given to all staff involved in procurement on the procurement procedures
applicable to the project and use of the procurement manual.
*  Specialized training in procurement and specifically IDA procurement procedures would be
provided to key staff of MCB and UDCBO.



38
Procurement Plan
Procurement plan for the first year of the project will be prepared prior to effectiveness. However since
the project is demand driven it would not be possible to clearly develop a detailed plan for all activities.
Therefore the plan will include a detailed information on the activities that can be identified at the start of
the project and present indicative information on the other types of activities that are likely to be financed.
The procurement plan will form a part of the PIP. The PIP would solicit the participation of all
stakeholders, set out the procurement plans, assess the local counterpart fund requirements, specify
responsibilities for commitment and implementation, and identify the risks that need to be controlled.
Since the project is demand driven it will not be possible to identify all activities of the project. Therefore
the procurement packages will be identified during project execution and will be carried out in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA and described in the operations manual.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
The Ministry of Capacity Building- specifically, its Program, Finance and Budget Unit - will be
responsible for overall monitoring and coordination of procurement activities of the CBDSD project.
Procurement of the project will be managed by (i) MCB, Procurement Division (MCB/PD) which is
under the Program, Finance and Budget Unit, and (ii) Ministry of Federal Affairs, Urban Development
Capacity Building Office (UDCBO).
MCB/PD would be responsible for all procurement activities under the (i) civil service reforms, and (ii)
strengthening the Ministry of Capacity Building components. UDCBO would be responsible for the
restructuring and empowering local governments component.
For each of their respective components MCB/PD and UDCBO would be responsible for preparation of
bidding documents, bid evaluation and award, contract monitoring and management. The Tender
Committee of MCB which has been established at MCB would be responsible for (i) reviewing of tender
documents, (ii) tender opening, and (iii) review of evaluation reports and award of contract for works
being managed by MCB. UDCBO also has a Tender Committee with responsibilities similar to the one
at MCB.
Procurement of Goods
Contracts for similar works and goods will be grouped into bid packages of US$ 100,000 or more, so that
they can be launched by NCB or ICB in order to obtain more favorable prices. Goods estimated to cost
equal or more than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, would be procured through International
Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$ 1.0 million, may be procured by National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, acceptable
to IDA. Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 for which the items cannot be grouped into bulk
procurement and for readily available off-the-shelf goods may be procured by comparing price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers. All furniture may be procured using National Shopping. The value
per contracts for the procurement of furniture shall not exceed US$30,000.
National And International Shopping
National and International Shopping, solicitations will be issued in writing to at least three reputable
suppliers (it may be better to approach five or six suppliers because not all three suppliers may respond,



39
so that at least three competitive quotations are received.) The solicitations should (a) include
specifications, and if goods are not immediately available, the delivery time; (b) give the estimated cost,
including cost of inland transportation and insurance; (c) be opened at the same time for evaluation; and
(d) in the case of International Shopping quotations, be solicited from at least three suppliers in two
different countries.
.Procurement through UNAgencies
Goods with a contract value not exceeding US$100,000 may be purchased from UN agency (IAPSO).
,Direct Contracting:
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment, are
of a proprietary nature or must be procured from a particular supplier as a condition of a performance
guarantee and costing US$50,000.00 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
'Procurement of Works
,Civil Works estimated to cost less than to US$500,000 per contract may be procured using National
Competitive Bidding procedures.
Domestic preference for local contractors shall be applicable for ICB contracts only in accordance with
the definitions in the Guidelines for the procurement of Goods and Works (paragraph 2.54 and Appendix
2 of the Guidelines.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications,
the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract
successfully.
Records of award decisions will be kept for Bank supervision missions and audits and shopping
requirements should be reflected in the procurement section of the PIP.
Consultants' Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Consultant's services shall be procured by using Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) Method
except as otherwise provided in the following paragraphs. The short list of consultants for services
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may entirely consist of national
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultants Guidelines.
Indefinite Delivery Contract (IDC) procured by using QCBS method may be used for large contracts
involving technical Assistance taking into consideration the capacity limitation of the Regional offices.



40
Other Proceduresfor the Selection of Consultants
Quality Based Selection
Consultant Service for complex and highly specialized services, assignments with high downstream
impact and assignments that can be carried out in substantially different ways may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Least-cost Selection. Services for audit and other similar services estimated to cost less than US$50,000
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded using least-cost selection method in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Selection based on Consultants Qualification. Services for very small assignments estimated to cost US$
50,000 for which the need for preparing and evaluating competitive proposals is not justified may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines.
Single Source Selection: Services for tasks that meet the requirements of paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11 of the
Consultants' Guidelines may be awarded using Single Source Selection method.
Individual Consultants. Services estimated to cost less than USD$50,000 equivalent per contract for
tasks for which a team of Consultants are not required and meet all the requirements set forth in paragraph
5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Procurement Planning
Prior to commencing any procurement activity for Goods, Works and Services, the proposed procurement
plan shall be presented to IDA for its review and approval. The proposed plan for the selection of
consultants shall be reviewed in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of Appendix I to the
Consultant Guidelines.
Prior Review
IDA's prior review procedures would apply to all purchases for which the contract value is equivalent or
in excess of US$100,000 for goods and works. Notwithstanding, the first two procurement packages for
goods, works and services, irrespective of their values, will be subject to prior review.
Contracts for employment of Consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more
and contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000
or more, will be subject to review in accordance with paragraphs I and 2 of Appendix 1 of the Consultant
Guidelines.
Terms of Reference for all consultancy services will be subject to prior review.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not subject to prior review post review shall be conducted on a minimum of
25% of the contracts selectively, during project implementation in accordance with the procedures set
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.



41
Procurement Methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category             ICB        NCB         Other2   N.B.F.   Total
Cost
1. Subprojects                            6.2      1.1          15.4              22.7
(5.6)    (0.9)        (13.5)             (20.0)
2. Goods                                  2.7      0.5                              3.2
(2.7)    (0.3)                            (3.0)
3. Services                                                       1.6               1.6
(1.6)              (1.6)
4. Training                                                      1.2                1.2
(1. 1)            (1. 1)
5. PPF                                                           0.48               0.48
(0.48)            (0.48)
Total                                  8.9      1.6          18.7              29.2
(8.3)     (1.2)        (16.2)            (26.2)
1,        Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2'        Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services
of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and
incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local
government units.
N.B.F. = Not IDA-Financed (includes government expenditures)



42
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Expenditure Category    Contract Value   Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Threshold (US$)     Method             Prior Review (US$)
1. Works                less than $500,000 NCB            All contracts above $200,000 and
the First 2 contracts irrespective of
the value for each implementing
Agency.
2. Goods                 $100,000 and over ICB            All contracts above $200,000 and
less than $100,000 NCB, LAPSO    the first 2 contracts irrespective of
the value for each implementing
less than $30,000  Shopping      Agency.
3. Services              $100,000 and over QCBS           All contracts above $200,000 and
Firms             less than $100,000 CQ            the
less than $30,000  LCS           first two contracts for each
Individuals                                          implementing Agency, irrespective
$50,000 and over  IC             of value
less than 50,000  IC             All
First two contracts
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Note: Regardless of threshold, IDA would require to review all TORs.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
HIigh
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 month(s) (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)



43
ANNEX 6(B) FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
ETHIOPIA: Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery
Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Ethiopia has not yet been conducted, but is
expected to be conipleted during the fiscal year 2003. There are, however, at least three other
assessments that provide an insight into the key issues regarding the financial management systems,
including audits and controls, in the country.
A first assessment focusing on the Country Profile of Financial Accountability (CPFA) was conducted by
IDA in June 1998. The conclusion of the assessment was that financial management is in general very
weak, system development levels are low and the expertise to carry out tasks and management skills are
spread very thinly. However, there is a high degree of budgetary discipline in the country and there is no
problem of unauthorized expenditures and government arrears.
A second assessment (which is still at provisional stage) focused on the financial control capacities in the
country and was conducted by consultants sponsored by the EU. The assessment revealed that controls
do exist but not necessarily comply with those prescribed by the relevant proclamations and directives. It
also showed that the controls over financing are strong and found no evidenice of overspending of the
budget. The report mentioned that most of the problems are primarily related to the shortage of trained
manpower at all levels and put forward 23 recommendations for consideration by the government.
A third assessment was the Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) conducted by IDA during the
Iiscal year 2001. The CPPR's conclusion was that the financial management systems of most of the
P'roject Implementation Units are weak and late submission of audit reports is a chronic problem in the
country.
The above assessments clearly indicate that, at the country level, the financial management systems are
weak and that this is mainly due to lack of trained manpower. However, the control environment is
strong and there is no evidence of accountability problems.
Strengths and Weaknesses
The country's discipline in executing budget and compliance with the existing government regulations is
the major strength in implementing this project. Line ministries and regional governments, which directly
or indirectly are involved in implementing some of the components under the CBDSD, are strictly
following-up the budgetary discipline and regular government reporting mechanism.
Significant Weaknesses                      Resolutions
Lack of trained manpower in the area of financial  Increase the pay scale and develop a career plan for
management and high turnover of staff        civil servants; these issues are being addressed
under the Government's on-going CSRP program
The project is mainly implemented by a new   Under the project, the capacity of the MCB with
ministry, which does not have previous experience  strengthened - specifically, the MCB will hire
in implementing donor-funded projects. This may  qualified staff and adopt an adequate financial
lead to delays in processing financial transactions.  management system as a condition of effectiveness.
Also, IDA will be supervising financial
management under the project on a regular basis.



44
Flow of funds
IDA, from the Credit Account, will transfer money to the Special Account maintained by MCB in the
National Bank of Ethiopia. Expenditures incurred for project eligible expenditures may be paid from the
SAs. If the amount involved is more than 20% of the SA advances, payments may be made directly from
the credit account. MCB from the SA will transfer the required initial advance to UDBCO local currency
account to be opened at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA and subsequent replenishments on the basis
of financial reports. MCB will also open a local currency account at a commercial bank acceptable to
IDA to be used for the counterpart fund.
Staffing
The MCB Finance and Budget Directorate should be staffed with adequate and trained people, who are
capable of handling and managing the project financial resources. The staffng of MCB will be an
effectiveness condition. The existing staff at UDCBO are well qualified to handle the project financial
transactions.
Accounting policies and procedures
The accounting policies and procedures to be designed by MCB should be able to produce reliable,
relevant and timely information for informed decision making and monitoring. UDCBO has its own
accounting polices and procedures, which are inline with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. It
has also a financial management manual, which explain the process of accounting and reporting. The
establishment of the accounting and financial management system for the Project satisfactory to the
Association would be a condition of effectiveness.
Internal Control
Internal control comprises the whole systems of control, financial or otherwise, established by
management in order to (a) carry out the project activities in an orderly and efficient manner, (b) ensure
adherence to policies and procedures and (c) safeguard the assets of the project and secure as far as
possible the completeness and accuracy of the financial and other records.
MCB is expected to design and install internal control systems, which will help the management of the
project in achieving the project objectives in orderly and efficient manner. Thus, the main focus of the
internal control is placed on the following:
-Segregation of duties
-Physical control of assets
-Authorization and approval
-Clear channels of command
-Arithmetic and accounting accuracy
-Integrity and performance of staff at all levels
-Supervision
UDCBO has good system internal control systems in place.



45
External Audit
Th. annual consolidated project financial statements of the project (MCB is responsible to produce a
consolidated project financial statements for the project as a whole), the movement in the special account
(SA) and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be audited by an external auditor acceptable to IDA in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing. The annual audited financial statements, along with
the management letter, will be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
Since the Federal Auditor General is responsible for auditing all government funds, it will conduct the
audit or assign other external auditor to the project. The terms of reference for the external auditors will
be developed immediately after effectiveness. It was agreed that the Borrower would appoint the auditors
by no later than June 7, 2003.
Reporting and monitoring
MCB will establish adequate accounting and reporting systems, which will produce accurate and reliable
information regarding project resources and expenditures. The systems should provide reliable record and
report all assets and liabilities and financial transactions of the project and sufficient financial information
for managing and monitoring activities. The accounting and reporting systems will, among other things,
include the preparation of a financial management manual, design of good internal control systems and
appointment of qualified personnel. MCB is responsible to keep the accounts of the project as a whole
and is responsible to produce consolidated project financial statements, includin~g the financial
transactions of UDBCO. MCB will produce quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) and submit
the same to IDA 45 days after the end of each quarter. The FMRs will include financial, physical progress
and procurement information. At a minimum, the financial reports should include the sources and uses of
funds, expenditures by main expenditure classifications, beginning and ending cash balances and other
supporting schedules. The formats of the FMRs will be agreed during negotiation.
Impact of procurement arrangements
Most of the procurement will be on consultancy services and training. These types of procurement will
use the Special Accounts on regular basis and hence the use of SOEs frequently.
Disbursement Arrangements
The proposed IDA credit of US$26.2 million would be disbursed over three years from FY2003-FY2005.
The annual estimated disbursements are indicated in a table on the first page of this Project Appraisal
Document. The Project Completion Date is June 30, 2005 and the Project Closing Date is December 31,
2005. The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Table C.



46
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category       USA million            Financing Percentage
Goods                                  3.0      100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local
expenditures
Consultants' Services                  1.6     100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local
Cnlas s.6  expenditures
Training                               1.1      100%
Subprojects                           17.4      90% of amounts disbursed
Refunding of Project Preparation       0.5      Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02(c) of the
Advance                                         Agreement
Unallocated                            2.6
Total Project Costs (IDA)             26.2
Total (IIA)                           26.2
Uses of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
Disbursements made on the basis of SOEs will be as follows: (a) for goods and consulting firms on all
contracts less than US$100,000; (b) for individual consultants on all contracts less than US$50,000; (c)
for local training and workshops on all contracts regardless of the amount; and (d) Subprojects. The
borrower will retain all the Supporting documentation for SOEs, including completion reports and
certificates. The supporting documents will be made available to IDA during project supervision and be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association. Disbursements for expenditures
above these thresholds will be made against presentation of full documentation relating to those
expenditures. During the project launch workshop, there will be a session on proper preparation of
withdrawal applications, including the preparation and submission of required supporting documents.
SpecialAccount
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures under the Credit, MCB will establish Special
Account (SA) in the National Bank of Ethiopia. The special account will be denominated in United States
dollars. The authorized allocation for the Special Account will be US$2,500,000. Upon effectiveness,
IDA will deposit an initial deposit up to US$1,250,000 into the Special Account. Once the total
disbursements from the Credit account, including commitments, have reached an aggregate amount of
SDR 3,000,000, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocations. Replenishments
of funds from the IDA loan account to the Special Account will be made on evidence of satisfactory
utilization of the advance, reflected in the SOEs and/or on full documentation for payments above SOE
thresholds. MCB will submit replenishment applications at least once in a month. If ineligible
expenditures are found to have been made from the Special Account, the Borrower will be obliged to
refund the same. If the Special Account remains inactive for more than six months, the Borrower may be
requested to refund to IDA the outstanding balance of the Special Account and amounts of unaccounted
expenditures paid from the account. The Special Account will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the IDA.



47
Counterpartfund
T he Government of Ethiopia will open a local currency accounts in the National Bank of Ethiopia and
will deposit Birr 6,500,000 (US$770,000 equivalent) for the implementation of the first project year and
subsequent deposit at the beginning of the project year based on the annual budget of the project.
Action Plan
Action to be taken              Expected completion date   Responsible body
I    Preparation of a financial
management manual describing-the
flow of funds, accounting, reporting
and auditing arrangements by MCB  Before effectiveness     Borrower
2    Appointment of key accounting
_    lofficers at MCB                 Before effectiveness       Borrower
Financial Covenants
MCB shall maintain adequate financial management system and prepare consolidated project financial
statements in accordance with International Accounting Standards. MCB shall submit audited project
financial statements latest six months after the close of the fiscal year. The Borrower shall prepare the
FMR which would be submitted to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first
calendar quarter after the Effective Date, covering the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter. Each FMR shall be furnished
to the Association not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such
calendar quarter. The Borrower will also submit additional financial reports as required by IDA.
Supervision plan
C'onsidering the nature of the project, the IDA's supervision mission should be as regular as possible.
E]ach year, there should be at least two main supervision missions and other two interim supervision
missions by the country office staff.



48
ANNEX 7: PROJECT PROCESSING TIMETABLE
ETHIOPIA: Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery
Project Schedule                      Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)              8                           8
First Bank mission (identification)              October 15, 2001            October 15, 2001
Appraisal mission departure                        April 15, 2002             April 19, 2002
Negotiations                                        May 1, 2002                May 1, 2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    September 1, 2002
Prepared by:
Preparation Assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                Bank Unit                       Specialty
Sumila Gulyani           AFTUI             Task Team Leader
David DeGroot             AFTUI            Senior Urban Specialist
Yitbarek Tessema          AFTU I           Operations Officer
Navin Girishankar         AFTI2            Senior Public Sector Specialist
Rowena Martinez           AFTU I           Operations Officer
Eshetu Yimer              AFTQK            Financial Management Specialist
Samuel Haile Selassie    AFTQK             Procurement Specialist
Steve Gaginis            LOAG2             Disbursement Officer
Solange Alliali          LEGAF             Senior Counsel
James Hicks               Consultant       Local Government Specialist
Perla San Juan           AFTU1             Program Assistant
Yeshi Gizaw              AFCO6             Team Assistant
Peer Reviewers
Christine Kessides       TUDUR             Economic Advisor
Michael Stevens          AFTPR             Lead Public Sector Development Specialist



49
ANNEx 8: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
ETHIOPIA: Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery
A. Project Implementation Plan
Revised draft prior to Board Presentation (July, 2003)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management Assessment
Procurement Assessment
C. Other



50
ANNEX 9: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
ETHIOPIA: Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery
As of 5t0612002                                                                                 Difference between
expected and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions            disbursements
Project ID  Project Name                          FY    IBRD    IDA    GRANT    Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig.   Frn Rev d
No. of closed projects: 63
P000733    Ag. Researc & Train                   1998                60                       36.41       25.0
P035147    Conserv.& Sustain. Use of Medic. Plants  2001                   1.9                1.67        -0.1
P052315    Conservation of Medional Plants       2001               2.6                       2.41        -0.1
P057770    Cultural Heritage                     2002                 5                       5.14
P073196    Demobilization and Reintegration Project  2001         170.6                      69.06         4.4
P000732    Education Sector Investment           1998               100                      32.13        26.9
P067084     Emergency ReoDvery and Rehab. Project  2001             230                      181.66        116
P000736     Et Energy II                         1998               200                       88.39       59.4
P069886     Ethiopia Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Project  2001          59.7                       45.80        4.5
P089083    Global Distance Leaming               2001               4.9                        4.86        1.2
P000756    Health Sector                         1999               100                       53.87       46.8
P000753     Nat Fertilizer Proj                  1995               164               0.08    15.14       -21.3
P000752     National Seeds Project               1995                22               4.19     3.89        10.0
P000734     Road Rehabilitabon                   1993                96                       14.11       20.5      12.7
P000755     Road Sec. Dev. Prog.                 1998             309.2                      157.03       165.2     63.4
P000771    Social Rehab (ESRDF I)                1996               120              11.48    18.28       43.8      11.9
P000764    Water Supply Dev & Reh                1996              35.7                        8.18         13
P050342    Women's Development Initiatives Project  2001              5                        4.40.        0.7
Overall result                                   Result          1684.7    1.9       15.75   742.43       515.5     88.0
Active
Closed Projects    Total
ProJects
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):  832.48         1,831.89    2,864.37
of which has been repaid:     0.00          338.89     338.89
Total Undisbursed (IBRD and IDA):  740.76               0      740.76



51
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of May 6, 2002
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                Disbursed
FY Approval Company Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic



52
ANNEX 10: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
ETHIOPIA: Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery
Ethiopia at a glance                                                               9118101
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan      Low-
Ethiopia    Africa   Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                        64.3       659     2,459                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     100        480       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                        6.7       313     1,030
Average annual growth, 1594400
Population (I%)                                         2.6       2.6       1.9     GNI
Labor force (IX)                                        2.3       2.6       2.4     GNI                              Gross
per            -               primary
Moat recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                               capita           ,   '       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (X oftotalpopulation)                  18         34        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        43         47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               107         92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               ..         .         ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (X ofpopulation)       ..       55        76
Illiteracy (X ofpopulation age 15+)                     62         38        38
Gross primary enrollment (X ofschool-age population)    43         78        96                  Ethiopia
Male                                                  55         85       102                   Low-income group
Female                                                31         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                              ..      86        6.5       6.4
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                    .     118       16 0       14 3
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                .      7.8      14 1       154 4Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..      7.2        1.2      -1.0                       T
Gross nabonal savings/GDP                       ..      9.0       8 0       8 9
Current account balance/GDP                     ..     -2.8       -8.1      4.4      Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                           ..      0.6       1.3       1.3        vin g                     Investment
Total deb/GDP                                   ..    1004       85.7       859      s
Total debt service/exports                     7.6     34.9      61.9      54.0
Present value of debVGDP                        ..        .         ..     37 5
Present value of debt/exports                   ..        .         ..    239.3
Indebtedness
1980-90  199040      1999       2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  1.1       4.7      6.5       5.3       6.8                   Ethiopia
GDP per capita                      -1.9       2.4      4.0       2.8       4.5                    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        2.4       9.5     -2 6      23.6       6 5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           20
Agriculture                                     ..     493        52.3      52.3
Industry                                        ..     12,7      11.1      11.1
Manufacturing                                  .      7.8        70        7.0                o0                    ,
Services                                               38.0      36.5      36.5     -o0                97 N        99
Private consumptlon                             ..     74,3      80.1      76.7     20
General govemment consumption                   ..     18.5       18.7     24.4                      GDI     _  GOP
Imports of goods and services                          12.4      29.0      30.7                                        - -G-P
1980-90  1990-00       1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual grotwh)o
Agriculture                                    0.2      21         3.8       1.9    40
Industry                                       0.4      61       12.9       3.0
Manufacturing                               -0.9      65        17.7       4 2     2   _
Services                                       3.1      7.1       7.8       9.5
Private consumption                            0.2      2.9       3.1      -2.0             95   se    07               Go
General government consumption                 4 5      9 2      37.3      33 2     -20
Gross domestic investment                     2.1       9.4      134        -6.2                   Exports  -      Imports
Imports of goods and services                  1.5      6.4      18 4       6.3
Note. 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
_   _ _  __ _  ._  _____ .  _  .  _  r  ~,  ~.      ~        _ z.~   s.z   .-  ~~ .- ~  - S  ---7- _ --



53
Ethiopia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     190       1999     2000     Inflatlon (%)
Domestic prices
6% change)                                                                       Is 
Consumer prices                              4.5      5.2       3.9      4.2     o0
Implicit GDP deflator                         ..      3.5       15       1.4      5
Government flnance                                                                  J
(% of GDP Inndudes curent grants)                                                -   ss        es         98    99    00
Current revenue                               ..     17.7      17.8     18.3     10
Current budget balance                         ..    -3.9      -3.0     -8.2             -    GDP deflator -e-CPi
Overall surplus/defict                        ..    -12.0     -12.1    -14.8
TRADE
(US$ nWillons)                              1980    1990       1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS nill.)
Total exports (fob)                          459     366        484      486     2,000
Coffee                                              196       281      262
Leather and leather products                         64        32       35     1.500
Manufactures
Total Imports (clf)                          692     881      1,558     1,611    1,  . 0
Food                                                 73       100       116               9*0_
Fuelandenergy                                       109       111       213
Capital goods                                ..     340       643      755
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      77         78       84           94   95   Be   97   se      o
Import price Index (1995=100)                 ..      91        92        97                  *Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (19953100)                      ..     85         84       68
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mi/Ions)                               1980    1990       1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                569     672        915      984      o
Imports of goods and services                782    1.069     1,878     1,962
Resource balance                            -213     -397      -963     -978     -2
Net Income                                     7      -67       -52      -60     -4
Net currant transfers                         80     220        494      691
Current account balance                     -126     -244      -521     -346
Financing Kems (not)                          86     196        500        . 
Changes In net reserves                       40      48         21       ..    -10
Memo:
Reserves Inciuding gold (USS millions)       262      55        434      348
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocaLUS$)              2.1      2.1       7.5      8.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS mimilons)                                                                    ComposIUon of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         824    8,630     5,544     5.481
IBRD                                        56      27          0        0                  F:117 G 77
IDA                                        249     824      1,739     1,779
Total debt service                            45      236       585      540                        ,r        B 1,779
lBRD                                        10       9          0        0                                    179
IDA                                          2       10        31       34
E: 2,09B
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            124     604
Offlical credtors                           67     279       -274     -277
Private creditors                           26      -57        -7      -10                                   C: a
Foreign direct Investment                    0       12         ..       ..
Portrolloequity                              0       0          ..       ..                         D: 1,324
World Bank program
CommKments                                   0      79        160        0      A - IBRD                   E - Bliateral
Disbursements                               28      74        148      137      B-IDA    D-OwermruttWlateral  F-Private
Principalrmpayments                          4      11         19       21      C-IMF                      G-Short-term
Netflows                                    24      63        129      116
Interest payments                            8       8         12       13
Nettransfers                                16      55        117      103
Development Economics                                                                                             9/18/01



54
ANNEX 11: LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
ETHIOPIA: Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery



-1
nl+    * -) r 4t.e-4       wv       &i1  h                 ..aeLh  */, C1 h
P11111S NfOVO       A07     7Alh(tC                     Ref. No.
ThLe Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
VlnMtry of Finaance and Ecoanomic DevelopEteuent                 * )   2    IiLt-  Z;
Date
. Calisto Madavo
V    ?resident for Africa
/ re Wle World Bank
Dear Mr. Madavo.
ReLetter of Sector Polcy
The purpose of this letter is to inform the Board of Directors of the World Bank of
the Govenment of Ethiopia's sectoral policy wi  regard to capacity building and
decentralization. The Government's policy famewwork in this regard is of relevance
not only to the Capacity Buildig for Decentralized Service Delivery (CBDSD)
project, scheduled for Board presetation on June 18, 2002, but also to the
Government's broader ezgagemem  with the Bank as an external supporter of
Ethiopia's development program.
With rgard to capacity building, Government's policy is clear. By virtue of The
Reorganizaion of the Executive Organs of the Federal Democratic Republic of
Fthiopia Proclamation No. 256/ 2001, the Ministry of Capacity Building (MCB) was
ceated. The creation of MCB is a culmination of an internal process of evaluation
in which the Ba*k was a key external participant during meedngs with the Prime
Minister in 1999 and 2001. MCB is establshed to guide the formulation,
implemer"ation, monitoring, and cvaluation of capacity building progamnunes at the
national leveL This mandate of MCB extends to the National Capacity Building
Program (NCBP) that addresses the public sector, the priate sector and civil society
ard NGOs and segments into 14 key areas in which capacity must be built in order
for democratzation and economic development to accelekate in Ethiopia. Most of
the documents describing plans to build capacity in each of these key arwas were
provided to the Wordl Bank in as far back as 2000. Tlhe mnital phase of the'NCBP is
being firplemented over a threeyear pemod. The 14 key areas include:
1. Technical, Vocational Education, & Training-
Agricultural Program
2. Technical, Vocational Education, &  Training-
Non- Agricuural Program
3. Hi    Eduadtion Reform Program
4. Civil Senice Reform Progam.
5. Justice System Reforn Program
Z0A-               71..bh                  4-nA
Tel. 65 2400       r' ~Bx1906                                         I4.13 66fl55I 14196
P. 0. -13ox  ~Fax         16655196          Addis Ababa - Ethiopia
zo0d   TO8SLtPOT0O           Oi                 i:;  I 8i B I W08-4 E8':~ OZ200?-Nnlf-LF



?I.IN17    Pkj"h'12 Ad7+ <,.#i)+C                      Ref. No,
The Federal DetLoeratic Republic of Ethiopia
Ministry of Flnance and Ecorziomic Developmaeut                 *- r         S
Date
6. Tax System Refonn Program
7. District Level Decentralization Program
8. Urbn Mnagemet Capacity Building Program
9. Co-operatives Capacity Building Prograun
10. Private Sector Development Program
11. Tetiles and Gaments Industry Capacity Building
Program
12. Construction Sector Capacity Building Program
13. Information and Communication Technology
Capacity Building Program
14. Civic Societies and NGOs Capacity Building
Program
The NCBP has been designed as a holistic prgram that addresses the entire
spectrm of capacity buildig requirements in Ethiopia. Government has aleady
initiated delivery in a number of key areas (agricultural extension, civil service
reform, tax system refzm, justice system refonn etc.) and is in the process of
suring extenal support for the entire program. The policy of govenunent is that
funding for the NCBP sbould be budgetay in nature, providing maximum flexibility
to GOlE m assignmg resources to progrums and sub-programs as needed. Progran
resources will be albcated based on performnce in meeting objectives, and MCB's
role is to coordinate and monitor implementation through the involved federal,
regional and local agencies and civil society, including NGOs and the private sector.
An important ross sectoral element of the NCBP is stengthening the capacity of all
levels of the public sector, the private sector, and civil society and NGOs to deliver,
operate and manta inastrue and servies required for growth: In diis respect,
GOE has adopted an important new policy focus upon building the capacity of sub-
regmnal local governane units (particularly woredas and mnnicipalities) to facilitate
demoratially derlized service delivery. The Govemnent is already initiating
an intergovenmuental fiscal block grant system for woredas country wide, providing
resoures for all 556 of these governance units to begin building capacity to deliver
servces demanded by lwal comn unities on a sustainable and accountable basis.
ln addition, the Goverment recognizes the need to irmprove the governance and
build the managemet capacity of cities and towns in the country through
revitalizing and enabling m cipal institutions. Currently, 927 towns of diffeent
size and more than 300 mumcipalities of different categories exist in Ethiopia
However, as mnicipal govermens were largely ignored over many years, their
cGsaFit to deliver infiat    and services to residents at present is by far limited.
0W. 56  104 Ox             O1905                                 ?4 13  dU 5  I 96N
ToE. 552400     0 BoxFax                    516,146             Addis Ababa - Ethiopia
O'd   TO0887ZTO             i O                         I WIJ-d 61': OF    ZO-Nnz~-~z



O&*+e*     x4.4'T 4-fhZflpe        4t,'1A.h                 *&Wc
P71f4W     frhS"C   A"7+ 0nLA+C                         Ref. No.
The Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
lUftry of Finance and Ecomuomi'c Developmlent                    *    Z/
Date
Recopizing the constains posed by existing municipal institutional capacity as
well as alerted by the ipid growth of urban population and increasing prevalence of
poverty, the Goverment is working to put in place proper policy and opational
measures. The lead agency enrusted with the task of realing this goal is the newly
created Ministry of Federal Affairs. The Govemmen has also created under the
Ministry of Federal Affairs the Urban Management Capacity Building Program
Office to serve as a focal point and coordinate implementation of the urban
manme    nt capacity building program.  The process of building municipal
managcment capacity involves a sequenced process in each of the country's 9
regions including: a) legislative and policy reform; b) inplementation of required
guidelie and systems; c) resucturing of the local govemments themselves; and, d)
optimizing own-source revenue bases withi a clear intergovernmental fiscal system.
Clearly. therefore, the Government's sectoral policy agenda with regard to national
capacity building, and decenraliion is ambitious, realistically though, and wide
ranging. Tbe Governmt believes that the World Bank is an important international
institton in tenns of experienc  with these critical issues and looks frward,
tberefore, to a rapidly growing cooperatve partnership to build the capacity of
Ethopia's human resources and governance systems.
With best re ards.                      - 
Cc-~~~~~~~~~~
Minist of Capacity Building               S-
dkAh                            ~~~~~~4.hA                 M     n
Tel. 52400         P.O. Box 10              Fax 56 135.55 14 96       Addis Ababa - Ethiopia
I
tp'8d  TOBVEZ0               01                     a~ ci  i a  wo WO4  61 :0 ~O 2 E -Nnlf-Lz



MAP SECTION



IBRD 311 58
R ~~~~~~                       OF~A 
/5H5~~~~~ooro            YE M EN             KEssoon,  /  A.OoIO* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R EP. OF YEMEN
s\,u D AN               -*RY                                                                                       ~      - 
A-dSIo.--
GU~~~ o'~  Li'  Gb~4BENSLiA GULYA        SM.i
) ~~~  Kahrr  4~~~~'j HATR~~~~~o" We9  -IBO. -W
D hig                            'itN.AL.OM
K             Chog~  fl5       M Lone  ~'HKRsbokh
,/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
Ko,n,oI&RIod     R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,obeo
~ ENSH NGULt~~~  Debre                                                                        __
is  o   d           Aibe  *   Fiohe ~~~~  ~ ob5                                    (  UGANDA   .~~~   KENYA  FD
orobee,  ~ ho~be  sR0~hi~ MoD
K--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
s  5,Io~  MomLo                                                          --  - - INTERNTHIONA PIUN ARE
Hornr0KYOJs  ~   ~ o~   -~      S O M AS      O    A L I
L.  I                                                                                        URLeNDlO   DY-EAHE-RAD
M----         Wki<'~                                                                                   SELECToD GOWNS
7                WeobrIe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dh
s  b_ANI.,'                                                                                   OEA 
I            -El K-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SVSBE25






IMAGING
Report No.:        23910   ET
Type:     PAD



