Report No. PID10707
Project Name             Ethiopia-Capacity Building for (@)
Decentralized Service Delivery
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Civil Service Reform; Decentralization;
Urban Management
Project ID               ETPE50938
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Capacity Building
Address: P.O. Box 1082
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person: Ato Tefera Waluwa
Tel: +251-1-564778
Fax: 251 1 55 33 88
Ministry of Finance
Address: P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person:
Tel: +251-1-55 20 14
Fax: 251 1 55 13 55
Ministry of Federal Affairs
Address: P.O. Box 5608
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person:
Tel: +251-1-15 48 58
Fax: 251 1 51 12 00
Email: mofa@telecom.net.et
Environment Category     F
Date PID Prepared        April 18, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      March 20, 2002
Bank Approval Date       June 18, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
2.1 Ethiopia's public sector reform and capacity building agenda,
1994-PresentDuring the 1990s, the Ethiopian state underwent a period of
unprecedented institutional change and restructuring, with potentially
far-reaching implications for the ways in the Government can help promote
poverty reduction and growth. Most notably, the adoption of the 1994
Constitution resulted in the creation of a federal state system, centered
around ethnically-based regions, within which the woreda constitutes the
basic unit of decentralized, democratic government. According to the
Constitution, regional authorities not only enjoy vast powers in various
aspects of public management (especially, fiscal management), but also
shoulder significant new responsibilities in terms of service delivery and



governance. Even as it established this radically new political and state
system, the Government was cognizant of the need for nascent regional and
local institutions to be adequately equipped with the necessary
institutional, organization, and human resource endowments to fulfill
their new mandates. This section discusses Ethiopia's emerging public
sector reform and capacity building agenda including the evolution and
efficacy of the Government strategy since 1994.First generation capacity
building focused on core technocratic systems: In the mid-1990s, the
regionalization process took place within a public sector context widely
acknowledged as being institutionally weak and capacity-poor. A range of
constraints in core public management systems were identified at the
federal and regional levels including a weak legislative framework to
guide civil service management; the absence of a medium-term planning and
budgeting framework; ineffective control systems on financial and
personnel management; inadequate wage incentives and inappropriate grading
systems; poor capacity for strategic and cabinet-level decision-making;
and insufficient focus on modern managerial approaches to service
delivery. In recognition of these myriad problems, the Government
embarked on a comprehensive--and admittedly complex--Civil Service Reform
Program (CSRP) in 1996.Indicative of Ethiopia's "first generation"
capacity building efforts, the CSRP sought to build a fair, transparent,
efficient, effective, and ethical civil service primarily by focusing on
strengthening core technocratic systems within the public sector. The
Program was built on five pillars: (i) Expenditure Control and Management,
(ii) Human Resource Management, (iii) Service Delivery and Quality of
Service, (iv) Top Management Systems, and (v) Ethics. Successful reforms
(for example, of pay and personnel systems, or government accounting) at
the federal level were intended to provide a template or prototype for
regional authorities. Second generation efforts aim to deepen democratic
decentralization: As the Government attempted to implement the CSRP at the
federal level, it became apparent that Ethiopia's historic governance
challenge was more complicated that previously envisaged. The country was
seeking to embed a radically new brand of ethnically-based federalism
across a vast, diverse society, while simultaneously delivering a broader
menu of basic services to a predominantly rural populace, historically
disempowered under successive monarchical and dirigiste governments.Recent
diagnostic work suggests that the regional governments have responded to
this challenge largely by using existing systems of administrative
hierarchy to undertake development planning, allocate public resources,
and implement service delivery programs.   As a result, local governments,
and specifically woredas, have generally emerged as deconcentrated units
in program implementation rather genuine, democratically elected
executives in their own right. In addition to generating various
operational efficiencies, this form of administrative deconcentration has
hindered the development of democratic and accountable local governments,
capable of delivering services in a demand-responsive and sustainable
manner. In addition, opportunities for involving communities,
particularly women, more systematically in all aspects of service delivery
(for example, parental management of schools) have been under-exploited.In
ongoing discussions with the Bank and other donors, the Government has
acknowledged the importance of strengthening woreda and municipal
governments by rationalizing administrative structures in regional bureaus
and zonal sections; enabling local governments to take allocative and
operational decisions in a financially sustainable manner; and empowering
local communities to hold woreda and municipal authorities accountable for
- 2 -



service delivery. Such efforts to generate bottom-up pressures from and
skill in local governments constitute the largely unfinished agenda of
"second generation" capacity building, which is critical to deepening
democratic decentralization.Public sector capacity building requires a
strategic framework: In 2001, the Government translated its Capacity
Building Strategy and Program Framework into a comprehensive National
Capacity Building Program (NCBP) for improving institutional and human
capacity across 14 sectors (for example, civil service reform, justice
reform, cooperative, private sector, textiles and garment, banking sector,
urban development and higher education). In responding to the
Government's request of funding for the NCBP, the Bank has suggested that
capacity building proposals for civil service reform, urban management,
and district-level decentralization could be usefully grouped together as
part of a coordinated effort to improve public sector capacity. It has
also noted that, in the public sector, the likely impact of capacity
building efforts is maximized when guided by a strategic framework for
structural and institutional reform. Most recently, the Government and
the Bank have discussed options for more systematically linking the
largely unfinished agenda of "first generation" technocratic reforms to
"second generation" efforts to deepen democratic decentralization (see
below).2.2 Institutional development impact and lessons learnedThe results
of first generation efforts, comprised primarily of the CSRP and its
various sub-components, were mixed. The Program did support the
development of new legislation (for example, a financial management
proclamation, a civil service law, a code of ethics, and a service
delivery policy) as well as procedures and manuals for budgeting,
procurement, and some aspects of personnel management. Training in
aspects of budget management such as accounting, procurement, PIP
preparation also progressed. Diagnostic work in these areas also
continued.While commendable, these initiatives have had only modest impact
in relieving the institutional and capacity constraints within the
Ethiopian civil service. In addition, there is little evidence of
sustained improvement in output performance at the federal or regional
levels. Rather, core functions such as medium-term planning, accounting
and auditing, personnel management remain weak. Attempts to develop an
affordable, medium-term public sector pay policy were delayed, and civil
servants--particularly at the lower levels--still receive extremely low
salaries. Critical to performance improvement, the planned role
restructuring across line agencies were not implemented in part because
the necessary reviews of strategic role, legislative mandates,
organizational structures, and staffing requirements were
compartmentalized into different components of the CSRP. These were
neither integrated into a single process change model nor implemented by
federal line agencies.Admittedly, the limited impact of the CSRP was due
in part to the implementation delay experienced during the war with the
Eritrea and continual demands on the time of the senior GOE officials.
However, several reviews of the Program have also identified lessons
related to design and management that can inform "second generation"
reform efforts. Four lessons, in particular, are relevant to future
attempts by the GOE and its development partners to improve frontline,
service delivery performance in priority sectors, critical to poverty
reduction.First, the design and sequencing of CSRP activities were heavily
focused on the federal level of government. First generation reforms were
intended to prototype technocratic reforms at the federal level for later
adoption by the regions. However, implementation lags suggest that
- 3 -



much-needed reforms at the regional level will be delayed even further.
The opportunity costs in terms of foregone improvements in institutional
and service delivery performance at the regional level are considerable.
There is therefore need to identify alternative modalities for supporting
certain institutional reforms and capacity building activities that can
produce short-term results, even as the prototyping of core technocratic
reforms in federal government proceeds.Second, the strengthening of core
budgeting and administrative systems, as supported under the CSRP, did not
automatically lead to improvements in frontline performance. For
instance, the Service Delivery Component of the Program, which helped
develop a policy paper on good management and service delivery processes,
was not adequately linked to the role restructuring, pay, and budgeting
reforms that are necessary to produce tangible improvements in output
performance. Nor was it clear how the policy would benefit sub-national
government, where the primary constraints on service delivery performance
(for example, in infrastructure, health, and education) resulted from
incorporating woredas as deconcentrated units of regional bureaus. Since
the basic units of local government--woredas and municipalities--bear the
ultimate responsibility for service delivery, the success of "top-down"
technocratic reforms in Ethiopia will likely require stronger links to
"bottom-up" efforts to empower and enable local authorities.Third, ongoing
work by the Ministry of Works and Urban Development (MWUD) to strengthen
local governments have revealed the potential across regions for more
concerted "bottom-up" efforts to restructure and empower municipalities
and woredas. Specifically, MWUD has helped certain regions in their
efforts to reform the legal and accountability framework within which
municipalities operate, and its work has highlighted the need for
restructuring of municipal finances and streamlining of institutional
arrangements that affect service delivery operations. As the GOE moves to
correct the "top-down" bias of first generation reforms, local governments
in rural and urban areas are poised to gain from far-reaching
restructuring and empowerment activities, and in the process, provide
demand-side pressures on regions to focus more deliberately on frontline
performance.Fourth and finally, the comprehensive scope of the CSRP and
the NCBP seek to address capacity building programs in a holistic manner.
However, the CSRP experience suggests that large scale, projectized
approaches to public sector capacity building can tax the country's
limited implementation capacity. In addition, mutually-reinforcing
activities that should have been implemented in parallel (for example,
role restructuring and job re-grading) often followed different
implementation plans. The experience suggests that the design of public
sector capacity building efforts should follow a clear notion of the
critical path for reform, as well as a sequencing strategy that is fitted
to the existing constraints on implementation capacity.These lessons have
informed the key issues to be addressed in a proposed program of Bank
support for the GOE's public sector capacity building efforts. The
strategic choices that shaped the design of the proposed package of
lending and AAA activities (including the CBDSD Project)--to be developed
over the FY02-03 period--are discussed in the following section.
2. Objectives
The proposed Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery (CBDSD)
Project aims to enhance decentralized service delivery performance by
initiating long-term public sector capacity building at the federal,
regional, and local levels. Building public sector capacity through
- 4 -



institutional reforms, systems development, and training would promote
effective policy formulation and implementation, particularly in key
sectors such as infrastructure, health, and education.The proposed
project, envisaged as a first phase of long-term Bank lending and
non-lending support, seeks to enhance service delivery performance through
a coordinated program of: (i) federal civil service reforms, (ii) regional
capacity building, and (iii) local government restructuring and
empowerment. Over the life of the proposed project, key reform and
capacity building activities will be piloted in selected federal, regional
and local government entities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank will add value to the design of the CBDSD Project by leveraging
its international experience with public sector capacity building, and
drawing on existing and planned AAA on civil service reform,
decentralization, service delivery processes and the status of local
governments in Ethiopia. Specifically, the Bank's contribution to the
knowledge on public sector and governance institutions in Ethiopia
includes its 1999 regionalization study, a 2000 review of the CSRP, the
2000 PER, the 2001 rapid assessment of municipal decentralization, and the
2001 woreda study with related background analyses. Over the next twelve
months, the Bank aims to carry out an addition review of regional public
management systems and their impact on prospects for democratic
decentralization and service delivery performance. In addition, the
Bank's contribution to the formulation and design of the CBDSD project is
based on lessons from its past involvement with public sector reform
issues in Ethiopia and projects currently under implementation including
the Ethiopia Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund (ESRDF) and the
Emergency Recovery Program.The Bank team has also assisted GOE in
preparing a proposal to the Italian Government for creation of a US$ 3
million trust fund which is likely to be executed by the Bank on behalf of
the Ethiopian government. Finally, project funds are meant to fill a
"financing gap" - although the project currently provides for full
financing for all components, the corresponding IDA funds could be
cancelled or reallocated if additional donor grant support is obtained
during project preparation and/or implementation.
4. Description
The proposed CBDSD project is to be designed as the first leg of IDA's
integrated response to the client's proposals for assistance in carrying
out a long term strategy for public sector capacity building at the
federal, regional, and local levels of government. Specifically, the
proposed project will support "top-down" technocratic reforms of budgetary
and personnel management systems as well as role restructuring at the
federal level in preparation for deeper efforts at the regional level. In
addition, it will finance "bottom-up" efforts to enable and empower local
governments to more effectively exercise autonomy and deliver services in
a sustainable manner. It is envisaged that overall CBDSD objective will
be achieved through the following three components:1. Reforming federal
civil service systems2. Building regional capacity3. Restructuring and
empowering local governments.Prospects and modalities for continued IDA
involvement in leveraging these top-down and bottom-up efforts into a more
substantial Regional Public Sector Performance Improvement Program, to be
prepared over FY03, will be explored further in the course of the ongoing
GOE-Bank dialogue.
-5-



1. Reforming Federal CS Systems
(i) Performance Improvement Program
(ii) Human Resource Management
(iii) Expenditure Management and Control
(iv) Interim IT Support for Civil Service Management
2. Building Regional Capacity
3. Restructuring and Empowering Local Governments
(i) Regional policy & analysis
(ii) Regional TA for deepening decentralization (2-3 regions)
(iii) Local government restructuring & capacity building (4-9 pilots)
(iv) Pilot rehabilitation investments
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $2.00
IBRD
IDA                      $24.00
Total Project Cost       $26.00
6. Implementation
It is envisaged that the primary Project Unit for CBDSD be situated in
MEDAC to support preparation and implementation. Individual component
coordinators for the CBDSD Project will involve technical counterparts
currently engaged in the GOE-Bank dialogue and CSRP implementation--namely,
project units in the PMO, FCSC, Ministry of Finance, and Ministry of Works
and Urban Development. Counterparts and implementation arrangements will
be discussed in detail during the next preparation mission and finalized
by pre-appraisal.
7. Sustainability
The proposed CBDSD will utilize existing project management structures
established under the Government's National Capacity Building Program
during implementation. It is envisaged that this approach will channel
the benefits of Bank assistance--including process change, institutional
change, learning, and capacity building--through existing GOE processes and
procedures. Moreover, the approach will limit problems of mainstreaming
that typically arise near the close of investment projects.More important,
CBDSD represents the first leg of IDA support for public sector capacity
building. Project benefits and lessons learned are expected to directly
inform the design of a more substantial Regional Public Sector Performance
Improvement Program, which would inter alia commit the Bank to a longer
term program of capacity building support in Ethiopia.Finally, component 2
and 3 would require that beneficiaries make prior commitments to sustained
institutional reform and organizational change (for example, by meeting
eligibility criteria related to financial or institutional performance or
through providing matching funds) in order to maximize the likely impact
of capacity building support from the Bank.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The following lessons from the experience with public sector reform and
efforts to strengthen local governments in developed and developing
- 6 -



countries have been identified and incorporated in project design:Lessons
from the Ethiopian experience:Systemic reforms in Ethiopia need to be
tailored to the requirements of its federal state system if they are to
produce desirable improvements in institutional and service delivery
performance within regions.When projectized, ambitious reform programs
such as the CSRP can become overly complex and difficult to implement
given the limited institutional capacity at the federal and regional
levels. Reform programs should be based on a clear notion of key
priorities and feasible approach to sequencing.Local governments--woredas
and municipalities--are capable of exercising greater allocative authority
with risks of leakage or inefficiency being substantially lower than those
resulting from the existing system of administrative hierarchy within
regions.Ethiopia's existing system of administrative deconcentration does
not adequately exploit the participative capacities of local communities
in planning, co-management of facilities, and accountability. If
empowered to be more systematically involved in service delivery,
communities could improve program implementation, deepen democratic
decentralization, and enhance prospects for poverty reduction.General
lessons:Government ownership and commitment is key to institutional
reforms. Public sector training should be conducted on an agency-wide,
demand-driven, and cost-recovery basis. Historically, entrepreneurial
individuals in the public sector in developing countries have been able to
seek out training opportunities. The binding capacity constraint on
frontline performance, however, is training that is in line with
institutional demands or agency-wide and objectives. In addition, various
instruments such as matching grant facilities have been developed to
ensure that training is undertaken with some element of
cost-recovery.Implementation targets should be realistic.
Intergovernmental "rules of the game" need to be clear, well understood
and agreed by all if they are to be effective.Financing should follow
function. In the process of decentralization, central governments often
assign responsibilities to local governments without assigning the
resources required to accomplish the task. To be effective, local
governments should have access to and control over the financing required
to meet their mandates. Sufficient capacity at central, regional and
local levels is necessary for effective decentralization and effective
delivery of local services.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Under component 3, selected local governments will
have access to a modest fund available for financing rehabilitation of
existing infrastructure. The fund aims at enhancing local capacity
through a learning-by-doing approach and testing the potential for
creating a larger scale infrastructure investment component in a follow-on
operation to be prepared in FY03. Local governments benefiting from this
component will be identified during project implementation through a
selection process based on capacity and demand related criteria. Specific
activities eligible for financing will be selected on a demand-driven
basis and will reflect priorities identified by the pilot local
governments. At this stage, rehabilitation activities to be financed
under the investment capitals sub-component cannot be identified and a
predetermined rating of environmental risk cannot, therefore, be
provided. However, given that the goal of these pilots is to provide
- 7 -



on-the-job training in local government with very weak capacity, project
screening criteria will ensure that these investments are small and that
they do not entail any significant environmental and social issues.
Nevertheless, operational manuals and other implementation arrangements
will be designed to ensure that environmental considerations and
mitigation measures are taken into account in the design and
implementation of the pilot rehabilitation schemes. This is close to the
approach used in similar IDA-financed operations in Uganda (Local
Government Development Program), Zimbabwe (Local Government Capital
Development Project) and Mozambique (Municipal Development Project and
Decentralized planning and Finance Project).
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Sumila Gulyani
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: +-202-4587244
Fax: +1-202-4738301
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
April 26, 2002.
-8-



