Report No. 23693
Report No: I050938 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/15/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ETHIOPIA        Project ID: P050938
Project: Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery     Task Team
Leader: Sumila Gulyani
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 20, 2002       IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 6, 2002      IDA Amount ($m): 24.00
Managing Unit: AFTUl     Sector: BA - Civil Service Reform; BD -
Decentralization; UM - Urban Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)       Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The proposed Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery (CBDSD)
Project aims to enhance decentralized service delivery performance by
initiating long-term public sector capacity building at the federal,
regional, and local levels. Building public sector capacity through
institutional reforms, systems development, and training would promote
effective policy formulation and implementation, particularly in key
sectors such as infrastructure, health, and education.
The proposed project, envisaged as a first phase of long-term Bank lending
and non-lending support, seeks to enhance service delivery performance
through a coordinated program of: (i) federal civil service reforms, (ii)
regional capacity building, and (iii) local government restructuring and
empowerment. Over the life of the proposed project, key reform and
capacity building activities will be piloted in selected federal, regional
and local government entities.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will include three components: 1) reforming federal civil
service systems; 2) building regional capacity; 3) restructuring and
empowering local governments. Component 1 will focus on improving service
delivery performance through strategic restructuring of the roles and
responsibilities of critical federal civil service institutions, and
strengthening of core financial management, personnel management, and IT
systems. Component 2 will aim to support the training of significant
numbers of regional officials on a demand-driven and agency-wide basis in
specific areas. The main objective of component 3 is to start and
facilitate the process of building local governments that are financially
sound and have the ability and incentives to improve service delivery,
especially to the poor. Specifically, component 3 will include (i)
regional policy and analysis technical assistance; (ii) regional technical
assistance for deepening decentralization; (iii) local government
restructuring and capacity building; (iv) pilot rehabilitation
investments.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely



to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will be implemented at the central government level as well as
at the local level in regions, woredas and municipalities that will be
identified at a later stage. In any case, the rehabilitation sub-component
will be limited in scope and none of these activities will be located in
protected areas and no critical natural habitats will be affected.
B. Check Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary
Assessment)
Comments:        The poject has been classified as FI because local governments
will act as financial intermediaries receiving project funds to finance
pilot investments for the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure such
as roads, drains, markets, schools, water supply and sanitation systems,
and slaughterhouses.
Operational manuals guiding the selection of these sub-projects and other
implementation arrangements will be designed to ensure that there is: (a)
no resettlement, no adverse impact on incomes and no impact on
agricultural land; and (b) no adverse impacts soil and water. In other
words, projects entailing such adverse impacts will be screened out and
will not be funded under the project. The sub-project screening/review
committee will include technical specialists that have the capacity for
advising on and reviewing EAs and other safeguard related issues.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
For the reasons indicated in section B above, no safeguard issues are
anticipated.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
-2 -



n/a
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
n/a
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
n/a
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Borrower will prepare an EA Framework to guide selection of projects
and to create mecahnisms for addressing potential environmental and social
impacts, the need for mitigations measures, environmental capacity
building requirements, and institutional arrangments for environmental
management.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The main stakeholders in this project are federal agencies and selected
regional and local governments. Although this project aims at improving
local governments' ability to respond more effectively to community needs
and demands, it does not directly involve communities.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
[XI SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     3/15/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 3/15/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop  3/15/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       3/15/2002
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:  Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
-3 -



Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Sumila Gulyani  February 13, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         February 13, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Alan G. Carroll February 13, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



