E-575
Environmental Management Framework
For the
ETHIOPIA
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR DECENTRALIZED SERVICE DELIVERY
PROJECT
April 2, 2002
FILE CO



Objectives of the Environmental Management Framework
The purpose of the Environmental Management Framework (the framework) is to
strengthen the environmental management capacity of selected pilot local governments to
deliver basic physical and social services under the proposed project. It is expected that
experience gained in this regard during implementation can be transferred to future
infrastructure investment operations, thereby building long-term environmental
management capacity.
To achieve these goals, the proposed project will finance pilot investments for
infrastructure rehabilitation to facilitate a learning-by-doing approach and to test the
feasibility of larger scale infrastructure investment components in future operations. To
ensure that the pilot investments take into account potential environmental impacts, and
that mitigation and compliance measures are included, this framework will outline an EA
process that will be an integral part of the pilot investment cycle. The framework will
also outline the capacity building needs of the selected local governments. Thus, the
framework will be an important tool for building long-term environmental management
capacity at the local government level.
The Project
The proposed project is designed as the first leg of IDA's integrated response to
the client's proposal for assistance in building capacity for improving public service
delivery at the federal, regional, and local levels. It seeks to enhance service delivery
performance through a coordinated program of: (i) implementing civil service reforms;
(ii) restructuring and empowering local governments; (iii) strengthening training
institutions; and (iv) strengthening of the Ministry of Capacity Building. Over the life of
the project, key reform and capacity building activities will be implemented in federal,
regional, and local government entities.
The component pertaining to restructuring and empowering local governments
will benefit from the guidance provided through the framework. This component will
focus on the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure such as roads, drains, water supply
and sanitation systems, markets, slaughterhouses, schools and clinics. To qualify for
funding, local governments will submit, among other things, an analysis of the potential
environmental and social impacts of the proposed pilot investments.
The proposed project will not support any rehabilitation activities if (a) the
displacement of any people from their residences; (b) the taking of any land belonging to
any individual or group of individuals; and (c) the obstruction or restriction of access of
any individuals to resources being used to produce their incomes or sustain their
livelihoods and living standards will occur.
2



Description of the Biophysical Characteristics of the Project Area
Ethiopia, as large as France and Spain combined, has an area of 1,112,000 square
kilometers. About 65 percent of the land is arable, with only 15 percent presently
cultivated. It is located between 32.6 'E to 48'E longitudes and 2.8 'N to 15 'N latitudes.
It borders Sudan, Kenya, Somalia, Djibouti and Eritrea. The country is divided into 9
autonomous regional states namely Afar, Amhara, Benshangul-Gumuz, Oromia,
Gambella, Southern National Nationalities and People, Somali, Tigrai, and Harari and
two city councils Dire Dawa, and Addis Ababa.
It has an elevated central plateau varying in height between 2,000 and 3,000 meters. In
the north and central parts of the country there are 25 mountains whose peaks rise over
4,000 meters. The biggest river of the country is the Blue Nile (commonly known as
Abbay), which runs a distance of 1,450 kilometers from its source in Lake Tana, to join
the White Nile at Khartoum, in the Sudan. there are two major climatic conditions in the
country. The dry season prevails in October through May while the wet season runs from
June to September. The central plateau of the country has temperate climate while the
low land, which extended towards the east of the country is dry and hot.
Potential Environmental Impacts of Sub-Projects
Potential environmental impacts will include soil and water contamination,
vegetation loss, soil erosion, dust, noise, and accidents during rehabilitation activities.
Overview of Applicable World Bank Safeguard Policies
Given that the planned pilot investments in selected municipalities and woredas
will focus on the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, and the project's emphasis on
incorporating environmental management into its operations, it is very unlikely that
World Bank safeguard policies other than OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, will be
triggered.
However, to raise awareness among local governments that sub-projects can have
adverse impacts on, for example, natural habitats or cultural sites, a summary of the
World Bank's safeguard policies is attached (Annex 4). Awareness of these safeguard
policies will be of particular importance at the time of large-scale follow-on investment
operations.
The proposed project has been categorized as Fl (financial intermediary) because
pilot local governments will have access to a modest fund for the purpose of financing
the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure.
OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment



As required by this policy, the Bank undertakes environmental screening of each
proposed project to determine the appropriate extent and type of EA. Projects involving
financial intermediaries are classified as FIs and are subject to the same rigor by the Bank
and the same expectations of environmental performance in design and implementation
as regular investment projects.
Thus, the FIs must screen sub-projects and verify that sub-projects in which they
invest meet the environmental regulations or other requirements of the country (or, as
appropriate, state, provincial or local authorities) and are consistent with the Bank's
environmental policies. They must also ensure that any legally required EA report has
been prepared and approved by the appropriate authorities before approving any
investment. In the absence of such regulations, the FIs should verify that the EA meets
the Bank's requirements set out in OP 4.01.
Consistent with OP 4.01, rehabilitation sub-projects will be assigned
environmental categories. Given the nature of these pilot investments, they are most
likely to be classified as Bs and Cs, as category A sub-projects would be likely to have
significant adverse environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented,
possibly affecting an area broader than the communities benefiting from the investments.
Category B sub-projects: Sub-projects would be categorized as Bs if their
potential adverse environmental impacts on human populations and environmentally
important areas - including wetlands, forests, grasslands, and other natural habitats - are
less adverse than those of category A sub-projects. These impacts are site-specific; few if
any of them are irreversible; and in most cases, mitigation measures can be designed
more readily than for category A sub-projects.
The environmental analysis for category B sub-projects examines potential
negative and positive environmental impacts and recommends any measures needed to
prevent, minimize, mitigate or compensate for adverse impacts and improve
environmental performance.
Proposed sub-projects will be classified as category Bs based on the results of the
screening process. Depending on the information gathered concerning potential adverse
environmental impacts, the Fl will either approve the sub-project and forward it to the
next level for final desk appraisal and then disbursement of the first tranche, or proceed
with the preparation of terms of reference for the EA. According to international
experience, the types of activities that are typically classified as category B sub-projects
include the following:
* Rehabilitation of water supply systems and sanitation facilities
* Rehabilitation of roads and drains
* Rehabilitation of existing schools and health clinics
* Rehabilitation of existing slaughterhouses
* Rehabilitation of existing markets
4



These types of sub-projects are illustrative of category B classifications, which will be
applicable to the planned pilot investments under the proposed project.
Category C sub-projects: Sub-projects would be classified as category Cs if they
are likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental impacts. Once the sub-project has
been assessed for its environmental impacts and categorized as a C, no environmental
work would be required. Some examples from international experiences of sub-projects
typically classified as category C include:
* Education (i.e. capacity building, excluding school construction)
* Health (education and capacity)
* Institutional development
* Most human resources projects
Overview of Ethiopia's applicable Environmental Policies, Laws and Procedures
Overview of Ethiopia applicable Environmental Polices and procedures
Ethiopia has different levels of policy of and legislative frameworks covering different
aspects of the environmental management and sustainable development issues. They are
contained in:
1.    The constitution
Article 43.  The Right to Development
Article 44.  Environmental Rights
Article 92.  Environmental Rights and enforcement instruments.
2.    Legislative Instruments
-   Draft Proclamation creating an Environmental Protection Authority
as an autonomous Federal Agency.
-   Draft Proclamation on Environmental Impact Assessment.
-   Draft Proclamation on Environmental pollution control.
-   Investment Proclamation No 37/1996.
-   Public Health Proclamation 200/2006.
-   Ethiopian  Water Resource  Management Proclamation   No.
197/2006.
-   Draft Environmental Protection Proclamations.
3.    Environmental Impact Assessment Guideline Document.
4     International Agreements to which Ethiopia is a partly:
1985 Vienna Convention for protection of the Ozone 1987 Montreal
Protocol on Substances Depleting the Ozone Layer.
5



1989 Basel Convention on the Control of the Trans-boundary
Movement of Hazardous Wastes and their disposal.
1992 UN Framework Convention on Climate Change.
1995  Convention  on the Prohibition of the Development,
Production, Stockpiling and use of Chemical Weapons and their
Destruction.
Screening and Environmental Assessment Process for Sub-Projects
The sections below will illustrate the specific steps involved in the process
leading towards sub-project approval for which the financial intermediaries - the pilot
local government in this case - will be responsible. It is of critical importance that the FIs
have the capacity to implement this process. The proposed project will contribute towards
the development and testing of such capacity, laying the foundation for effective
environmental management in future infrastructure operations.
Thus, capacity will be developed at the Fl level to (a) screen sub-projects; (b)
assign the appropriate environmental categories; (c) carry out environmental work; (d)
review and clear the environmental impact assessment reports; and (e) raise awareness
among its employees and ensure they receive appropriate training.
(a) Screening of Sub-Projects
The screening of sub-projects is the first step in identifying which aspects of a
sub-project are not environmentally significant and which therefore can prudently be
dropped from further consideration, and which sub-project will require environmental
work.
The FT will be responsible for carrying out this screening process. To facilitate
this screening process, the Fl will use a screening list (Annex 1).
(b) Assigning the appropriate Environmental Category
Based on the screening results, the Fl will assign the appropriate environmental
category: C if environmental impacts are non-existent or insignificant; and B if
environmental impacts require mitigation.
The Fl will be responsible for reviewing the screening results and approving the
environmental category of the sub-project. Sub-projects categorized and approved as Cs
will proceed immediately to implementation, while sub-projects categorized and
approved as Bs will prepare mitigation measures as appropriate or a limited
environmental impact assessment with an environmental mitigation plan.
6



(c) Carrying out Environmental Work
Sub-projects that have been categorized and approved as Bs will require
environmental work prior to implementation. This environmental work can be
accomplished either through the use of an Environmental Checklist or the conduct of an
Environmental Impact Assessment which will include an Environmental Mitigation Plan.
Environmental Checklist: In the event that minor environmental impacts have
been identified, an environmental checklist will be used. This checklist will serve as a
tool to identify and list the relevant environmental impacts and to specify the appropriate
mitigation measures to be incorporated into the plans for sub-project implementation
(Annex 2).
Environmental Impact Assessment: In the event that significant environmental
impacts have been identified, an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) will be carried
out. The EIA will identify and assess the potential environmental impacts of the sub-
project, evaluate alternatives, as well as design appropriate mitigation measures,
management, and monitoring measures. These measures will be captured in the
Environmental Mitigation Plan (EMP) which will be prepared as part of the EIA.
Preparation of the EIA/EMP will be done in consultation with the beneficiaries.
The Fl will be responsible for (i) preparing terms of reference; (ii) hiring
professionals to carry out the EIA; (iii) reviewing and approving the EIA/EMP; and (iv)
conducting public consultations. EIA procedures are outlined in Annex 3.
The Fl will make all sub-project EIA reports available to the beneficiaries for
their comments.
EMP: An EMP should consist of a set of mitigation measures, monitoring and
institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the sub-
project to eliminate adverse environmental impacts, offset them or reduce them to
acceptable levels. The EMP should also include the actions needed to implement these
measures, including the following features:
* Mitigation: Based on the environmental impacts reported in the EIA, the EMP
should describe with technical details each mitigation measure, together with
designs, equipment descriptions and operating procedures as appropriate.
* Monitoring: Environmental monitoring during sub-project implementation, in
order to measure the success of the mitigation measures. The EMP should include
monitoring objectives that specify the type of monitoring activities that will be
linked to the mitigation measures. Specifically, the monitoring section of the EMP
provides:
o A specific description and technical details of monitoring measures that
include the parameters to be measured, the methods to be used, sampling
7



locations, frequency of measurements, detection limits (where
appropriate), and definition of thresholds that will signal the need for
corrective actions.
o Monitoring and reporting procedures to ensure early detection of
conditions that necessitate particular mitigation measures and to furnish
information on the progress and results of mitigation.
The EMP should also provide a specific description of institutional arrangements,
i.e. who is responsible for carrying out the mitigating and monitoring measures (for
operation, supervision, enforcement, monitoring of implementation, remedial action,
financing, reporting, and staff training).
Additionally, the EMP should include an estimate of the costs of the measures
and activities recommended so that communities can budget the necessary funds. Similar
to the process for carrying out the EIA, the mitigation and monitoring measures
recommended in the EMP should be created in consultation with all affected groups and
NGOs to include their concerns and views in the design of the EMP.
Public Consultations: Public consultations are critical in preparing a meaningful
EIA. The first step is to hold public consultations with all interested and/or affected
parties. These consultations should identify key issues and determine how the concerns of
all parties will be addressed in the terms of reference of the EIA. To facilitate meaningful
consultations, the Fl should provide all relevant material and information concerning the
sub-project in a timely manner prior to the consultation, in a form and language that are
understandable and accessible to the groups being consulted. Depending on the public
interest in the potential impacts of the sub-project, a public hearing may be requested to
better convey concerns.
Capacity Building for Environmental Management
The component pertaining to the restructuring and empowerment of local
governments includes, among other things, provisions for "bulk" training of regional and
local government staff in basic skills such as accounting and management. The options
for delivering the training are currently under study and an assessment of the supply side
of training in selected regions is also underway. It is proposed to incorporate identified
environmental management training needs into this component.
8



Annex 1
Screening Process for Sub-Projects
To determine whether the rehabilitation of a sub-project will have environmental impacts
or not, the following aspects will be considered:
*  Impacts on soils                      HIGH        LOW
*  Impacts on surface water              HIGH        LOW
*  Impacts on ground water               HIGH        LOW
*  Impacts on public health              HIGH        LOW
*  Impacts on biodiversity              HIGH         LOW
*  Impacts on air quality                HIGH        LOW
*  Other related biophysical impacts     HIGH        LOW
If 50% or more of the potential environmental impacts are rated to be high, an
environmental impact assessment will be conducted.
If potential environmental impacts amount to less than 50%, the bidding documents will
include mitigation measures and environmental guidelines to be applied during
rehabilitation. It will be the responsibility of the contractor to either use the
environmental checklist or to conduct a limited environmental impact assessment to
ensure that (i) soil surfaces are protected; (ii) construction materials are selected
sustainably; (iii) wastes at the rehabilitation sites are managed appropriately; (iv) the
construction site is cleaned daily; (v) drainage is appropriate; and (vi) replanting of
vegetation takes place.
9



Annex 2
Environmental Checklist
For each sub-project proposed, fill out corresponding section of the checklist
Sub-Project        Questions to be answered           YES     NO     If YES,
Rehabilitation of  Will any vegetation be lost during                Is there a plan for re-vegetation?
schools and       rehabilitation?
health clinics
Are adequate waste disposal services               Is there an adequate waste disposal
(for cement, paint, engine oil etc.)              site?
provided for during rehabilitation?
Will the construction site be cleaned
regularly, using water to control dust?
Is a schedule in place to clean drains
regularly?
Will refuse generated during
construction be cleaned up?
Will first aid materials or facilities be
available during rehabilitation?
Are the sanitation facilities in schools
and health clinics satisfactory?
Are the current medical waste disposal
practices at health clinics satisfactory?
Rehabilitation of  Is the road to be rehabilitated located           EA will be required
roads & drains     in sensitive or critical habitats and
areas?
Is there a plan for re-vegetation and
reforestation along the side of the
road?
Will the road embankment be
constructed or rehabilitated in such a
way as to allow for free flow of water?
Is drainage provided to the flow route
of flood and runoff water?
Are adequate waste disposal services
(for engine oil etc.) provided for during
rehabilitation?
10



Rehabilitation of  Is there accurate information to verify
water supply      that the well(s) will not overexploit the
systems            aquifer?
Is there adequate drainage around the
well?
Is there a plan or measures to ensure
adequate protection of the water source
from livestock?
Is there a plan for re-vegetation and
physical stabilization of soils and
vegetation affected by the
rehabilitation?
Is the well or water source located a
minimum distance from settlements
and farms according to criteria to be
provided?
Is the well lined, and casting extended
above the ground level, in order to
prevent seepage of water back into the
well?
Will a hand pump be installed, or, if
not, will the well be covered?
Will the storage tank(s) be covered?
Rehabilitation of  Will any vegetation be lost during                Is there a plan for re-vegetation?
sanitation         rehabilitation?
facilities
Are the facilities located at the
minimum distance from the nearest
water source, according to criteria to
be determined?
Do the design of the latrines take into
account local soil and water table
conditions, so as to prevent
contamination according to procedures
to be determined?
Does a maintenance plan and schedule
exist, and is the community
knowledgeable about the need to
sanitarily maintain the latrine?



Rehabilitation of    Will an vegetation be lost during                       Is there a plan for re-vegetation?
markets             rehabilitation?
Are adequate waste disposal services                    Is there an adequate waste disposal
(for cement, pain, engine oil etc.)                     site?
provided for during rehabilitation?
Will the rehabilitation sites be cleaned
regularly, using water to control dust?
Is a schedule in place to clean drains
regularly?
Will refuse generated during
rehabilitation be cleaned up?
Are the public sanitation facilities
satisfactory?
Will first aid materials or facilities be
available during rehabilitation?
Rehabilitation of    Will an vegetation be lost during                       Is there a plan for re-vegetation?
slaughterhouses      rehabilitation?
Are adequate waste disposal services                    Is there an appropriate waste
(for cement, pain, engine oil etc.)                     disposal site?
provided for during rehabilitation?
Will the rehabilitation sites be cleaned
regularly, using water to control dust?
Is a schedule in place to clean drains
regularly?
Will refuse generated during
rehabilitation be cleaned up?
Will first aid materials or facilities be
available during rehabilitation?
Are current disposal practices of
carcasses etc. satisfactory?
Are the sanitation facilities
satisfactory?
12



Annex 3
Procedures for Infrastructure Sub-Projects Requiring EIA
Step 1: Screening
To determine the depth of EIA required, potential impacts in the following areas need to
be considered:
* Social issues
* Health issues
* Protected and gazetted areas
* Cultural heritage, archaeological sites
* Existing natural resources such as forests, soils, wetlands, water resources
* Wildlife or endangered species' habitats
Step 2: Scoping
To identify the relevant environmental issues, this step determines:
* Level of detail required for the EIA
* Extent of the area to be covered in light of the potential impact zones
* Timeframe for the EIA based on the potential impact zones
* Sequencing and scheduling of the various EIA tasks
* Preliminary budgets
Step 3: Preparation of Terms of Reference for Sub-Project EIAs
Based on the screening and scooping results, EIA terms of reference will be prepared.
The EIA will be conducted by a consultant, and the report should have the following
format:
* Description of the study area
* Description of the infrastructure sub-project
* Description of the environment
* Legislative and regulatory considerations
* Determination of the potential impacts of the proposed infrastructure sub-projects
* Development of a mitigation plan, including cost estimates
Step 4: Review and Clearance of the Sub-Project EIA Report
The executing agency will (a) review and clear the sub-project EIA report, and (b) inform
the public about the EIA results. The executing agency will be furthermore responsible
for overseeing the implementation of the sub-project EIAs.
13



Annex 4
Safeguard         Requirements for EA Checklist and/or EIA                       Requirements for EMP
Environmental    Identify & assess potential env. impacts of each sub-project in EA  A set of mitigation, monitoring and institutional
Assessment       checklist, holding public consultations. If checklist indicates it is  measures to be taken during the implementation
necessary, the responsible unit ??? will:                  and operation of sub-project activities to
-   create TOR for EIA                                     eliminate, offset or reduce to adverse env. and
-   commission EIA to 3rd party                            social impacts (such as waste disposal, re-
-   review EIA                                             vegetation, drainage. etc.,) on average such
-   approve EIA                                            measures are expected to cost less than
US$5,000 per ??9?)
Natural Habitats  EA checklist should identify important habitat sites in the areas  Activities that promote the rehabilitation of
proposed sbu-projects, and if necessary, the EIA will further  degraded habitats, or mitigation measures to
identify the ecological functions they perform, the degree of  minimize habitat loss or establish and maintain
threats to the sites, and the priorities for conservation.  an ecologically similar protected area.
Forestry         Distinguish between investments that are exclusively       Responsible unit will ensure that a forestry
environmentally protective or supportive of small farmers, from  management plan is in place, but proposed sub-
all other forestry operations                              projects will not contain commercial forestry
operations or activities in the forest sector that
would conflict with the Bank's aim to reduce
deforestation and enhance the environmental
contribution of forested areas.
Pest             EIA should include outline of pest management issues for   The EMP should include plausible alternatives to
Management       proposed sub-projects that EA checklists indicate will require  control pest populations through Integrated Pest
pesticides                                                 Management approaches, such as biological
control, cultural practices and the development
and use of crop varieties that are resistant or
tolerant to the pest
Cultural         EA checklist should include available info concerning cultural  Sub-projects should avoid any activities that
Property         property aspects of the proposed sites for activities, followed up  might damage or impact cultural property. This
by a reconnaissance survey if cultural property may exist.  includes sites having archeological (prehistoric),
paleontological, historical, religious, and unique
cultural values.
Indigenous       The EA checklists should identify indigenous peoples in proposed  Where EA checklists indicate indigenous peoples
Peoples          sub-project areas:                                         may be affected, sub-project proposals will not
- Close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural  be eligible for financing.
resources in these areas
- Self-identification and identification by others as members of a
distinct cultural group
- An indigenous language, often different from the national
language.
- Presence of customary social and political institutions
- Primarily subsistence-oriented production
Involuntary      Fl should double-check to ensure any proposed land acquisition  Not Applicable under the proposed project
Resettlement     does not include resettlement, and the site was selected by the
community through a participatory and consultative process and
that communities/individuals are voluntarily contribution land.
Safety of Dams   To be completed                                            Not applicable under the proposed project
Projects in      EA checklists should identify potential sub-projects on an  For sub-projects where the EA checklist
International   international waterway, i.e.:                              identifies activities on international waterways,
Waters           - Any river, canal, lake or similar body of water that forms a  State Program Support Unit should notify the
boundary between, or any river or body of surface water that flows  other riparians of the proposed micro-project and
through. two or more states, whether Bank members or not   its details at the earliest possible stage.
- Any tributary or other body of surface water that is a component
of any waterway described above
14



| Safeguard       Requirements for EA Checklist and/or EIA                        Requirements for EMP
- Any bay, gulf, strait, or channel bounded by two or more states,
or if within one state, recognized as a necessary channel of
communication between the open sea and other states - and any
river flowing into such waters.
Projects in      To be completed
Disputed
Areas
Social           Social assessments will summarize the key social issues related to  Responsible unit should ensure that activities
Considerations   proposed sub-projects:                                      continue to include participatory processes and
- Traditions, values and social organization of intended    consultations in all aspects of the micro-project.
beneficiaries
- Tenure rights over land, tree and water resources and how this
affects use
- Dominant attitudes and values towards growth, environmental
and community participation
- Patterns of interactions between group members
- Capacity of local institutions to participate in decisions,
operations. etc.
15



