Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C_ASZ Z/2 2w _-
Report No. 8248-BO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
MARCH 26, 1990
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the performance of
their officiil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURF.RENCY EQUIVALENCY UNITS
Currency Unit = Boliviano (Bs)
Bs 1.0 = US$0.35
US$1.0 = Bs 2.86
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ASONG      Asociaci6n de Organizaciones No Gubernamentales
(Regional Association of Non-Governmental Organizations)
CA         Consejo Administrativo (Administrative Council)
CONAPSO    Consejo Nacional de Politica Social
(National Council for Social Policy)
CONES      Consejo Nacional de Edificaci6n Escolar
(National School Construction Council)
EMSO       Economic Management Strengthening Operation
ESF        Emergency Social Fund
FENASONG   Federaci6n Nacional de Asociaciones de Organizaciones No
Gubernamentales
(National Federation of Non-governmental Organizations)
IDA        International Development Association
IHDP       Integrated Health Development Project
INE        Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas (National Statistical
Institute)
MEC        Ministerio de Educaci6n y Cultura (Ministry of Education
and Culture)
MPC        Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinaci6n
(Ministry of Planning and Coordination)
MPSSP      Ministerio de Previsi6n Social y Salud Publica
(Ministry of Social Welfare and Public Health)
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
OPEC       Fund of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAS        Programa de Asistencia de Salud  (Health Assistance Program)
RA         Requesting Agency
RDC        Regional Development Corporation
SIF        Social Investment Fund
SOBOMETRA  Sociedad Boliviana de Medicina Tradicional
(Bolivian Society of Traditional Medicine)
SOE        Statement of Expenditure
SPS        Subsecretaria de Previsi6n Social
(Subsecretariat for Social Security)
SSP        Subsecretaria de Salud Publica (Subsecretariat for Public
Health)
TCU        Technical Control Unit (SIF)
TGN        Tesoro del Gobierno Nacional (National Treasury)
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF     United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Page No.
BASIC DATA SHEET ..................................................    iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMARY..                                                v
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                       1
II. MACROECONOMIC SETTING .1
III.  THE SOCIAL SECTORS .......................................         3
Social Indicators.                                             3
Health Sector:  Organization and Institutions                   4
Education Sector:  Organization and Institutions                5
The Emergency Social Fund (ESF).                                7
Lessons Learned through the ESF Experience.                     9
Transition from Emergency to Longer-Term Development          10
The Social Investment Fund (SIF) .11
IDA Assistance Strategy in the Social Sectors.                12
IV. THE PROJECT .13
Objectives .13
Summary Project Description .14
Detailed Project Description .15
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .18
Institutional Arrangements .18
Subproject Identification and Appraisal .18
Sector Coordination .21
Information Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation            22
Supervision .23
Beneficiary Contributions .23
Accounts, Auditing, and Reporting .23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Constance Sepeda (mission leader), Luisa Gomez-Castellanos (Consultant),
and Julie VanDomelen (Consultant), which visited Bolivia in November 1989.
It also incorporates the findings of an earlier preparation mission led by
Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard and benefits from contributions made by
Margaret Grosh (Economist), and Mary Barton (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
|of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VI.  PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. DISBURSEMENTS AND PROCUREKENT ..    24
Project  Costs   ..................... ....................  24
Financing  Plan  ........................................  25
Cofinancing Arrangements ............    ..................    26
Disbursements         ...........  27
Procurement  ........ .............. .....................  27
VII.  BENEFITS AND RISKS .......    ................................    29
Benefits   ..............................................  29
Risks   .................................................  30
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .............................    31
Agreements Reached at Negotiations         .      .        31
Recommendation .........................................    34
LIST OF ANNEXES
I   Public Spending in Health and Education, 1980-88 .35
II   Key Features of SIF Compared with ESF    .     .42
III   Key Provisions of SIF Supreme Decree    .      .45
IV   SIF Subproject Selection Criteria and
Evaluation Methodology    .           .47
v  Technical Assistance    ..62
VI    Project Implementation Program     ..70
VII    Poverty Targeting Methodology     ..                        74
VIII    SIF's Internal Monitoring System     ..78
IX   Detailed Project Costs .......................... .......    80
X Financing Plan    ..81
XI Disbursement Tables    ..82
XII    Procurement Tables ..................................       84
XIII    Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File   ..86
MAP:      IBRD No. 20516



- iii-
9OLIVIA
Social Investment Fund Proiect
BASIC DATA SHEET
DATA       YEAR     SOURCE
A. GENERAL COUNTRY DATA:
1. Total Population (Million) (Estimared)                        7.1       1989        WDR
2.  Population Projection NMillion)                               10        2000       WDR
3.  Assumed Year of Reaching Net Reproduction Rate of One        ---        2030       WDR
4. Size of Stationary Population (Million)                        26       2030        WDR
5.  GNP Per Capita (USM)                                         670        1987       WDR
8. Average Annual GDP Growth Rate (%)                           -2.1    1980-87        IDA
7. Urban Population as X of Total                                 50        1987       WDR
8.  Literacy Rate (%)                                             63        1985       IDA
9.  Area (1,000 Km2)                                           1,099        1989       WDR
10.  Pop. Density (1,000 per Km2)                                 6.6        1989       WDR
B. POPULATION DATA:
1. Crude Birth Rate (Per 1,000)                                   43    1980-85        WDR
2. Crude Death Rate (Per 1,000)                                   14    1980-86        WDR
3. Annual Rate of Population Growth (U)                          2.7    1976-88        WDR
4. Total Fertility Rate                                          6.1    1980-85        WDR
s.  Age-Specific Fertility Rate:
15-19                               53        1988
20-24                              201        1988
26-29                              211        1988        ENPV
30-34                              192        1988
36-39                              116        1988
40-44                               a8        1988
S. Population Age Structure (%)
0-14 Years                                41       1988        ENPV
15-64 Years                                66       1988        ENPV
665  Years                                4       1988        ENPV
7. Women of Child-bearing Age (16-49 as X of
Female Population)                                          48       1988         ENPV
8.  Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (Total X)                       24        1983        IDA
Modern method                                              10       1983
C. HEALTH DATA:
1.  Population Per Physician                                    1540        1984        WDR
2.  Population per Nurse                                        2480        1984        WDR
3.  Population per Hospital Bed                                  606        1986        IDA
4.  MPSSP Budget as % of GDP                                     0.8        1988        IDA
S.  MPSSP Budget as S of Total Govt. Budget                      4.3        1988        IDA
S.  Maternal Mortality (per 10,000)                               48        1980        WDR
7.  Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)                            110        1987        IDA
8.  Life Expectancy at Birth (Years):
Women                               56        1987        WDR
Men                               61        1987        WDR
9. Proportion of Births Attended in a Health Instit.              3o        1986        WDR



iv -
DATA       YEAR      SOURCE
D. NUTRITION DATA:
1.  Daily Calorie Supply                                        2143        1986        WDR
2.  Calorie Intake as X of RequIrements                           98        1996        WDR
3.  Prevalence of Low Weight for Ago-Grades 1-3                   41        1981        IDA
4.  Prevalence of Endemi- Goiter (X of pop.)                   64-67    1983-84         IDA
E. EDUCATION DATA:
1.  Primary Education Enrollment Rate (U)                         87        1988        WDR
2. Secondary Education Enrollment Rate (U)                        37        1988        WDR
3. Higher Education Enrollment Rate (11)                          19        1988        WDR
4. Public Education Expenditures as Share of Total              22.9        1988        IDA
General Treasury Expenditures (X)
6. Public Education Expenditures as Shnrr  of GDP                2.8        1988        IDA
F. BASIC SERVICES DATA:
1.  Proportion of Households with Access to Piped Water           59        1988        ENPV
2. Proportion of Households with:
Sewerage                                23       1988        ENPV
Septic Tank                                 4       1988        ENPV
Latrine                               16        1988        ENPV
3.  Proportion of Houssho!ds with Access to Bathtub or Shower    23         1988        ENP"
4. Proportion of Househulds with Trash Collection                 22        1988        ENPV
5.  Average Number of Roomes per Household                       2.8        1988        ENPV
SOURCE: WRD: World Bank, World Development Report, 1989.
IDA: Internal rep7rt.
ENPV: Encuesta Naclonal de Poblaci6n y Vivienda, 1988, INE.
NOTE:  WDR figures for population ore based on projections fr m 1976 census.



BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiaries:    Social Investment Fund (SIF)/Emergency Social Fund (ESF)
Amount:            SDR 15.1 million (US$20.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:  Grant
Project
Objectives and
Description:      The project would support the initial phase (1990-93) ot
the SIF program, with a view to assisting the Government
in its effort to improve the coverage and quality of
basic services in the health and education sectors. It
would also contribute to the Government's ongoing effort
to strengthen the project executing capacity of public
institutions. The project would include: (a) a SIF
subproject component; (b) an institutional development
component, consisting of administrative support for SIF
during its first four years and technical assistance to
strengthen its operational capacity; and (c) an ESF
training component consisting of a program to familiarize
staff of selected public institutions with ESF's
information management system for appraisal and
supervision of projects. SIF subprojects (averaging
US$70,000) would include investment and operational
support in: (a) health, including nutrition programs
(day-care centers, school lunch programs, and basic
infrastructure and training for communities to improve
the nutritional content of their diet); basic and primary
health care (health posts and limited immunization
campaigns); and basic water supply and sanitation
infrastructure; (b) education, including construction or
repair of primary school classrooms and small community
libraries, and provision of equipment, furniture and
texts; and short-term adult literacy and practical
training programs; and (c) institutional support of
Requesting Agencies (RAs) (defined Ls public or private
agencies that propose subprojects for SIF financing), to
permit expansion of their services to underserved areas.
Subproject selection criteria would include:
(a) consistency with sectoral strategies; (b) poverty
targeting criteria; (c) assessment of community needs;
and (d) existence of feasible plans for operation of the
subproject beyond the period of SIF's financing.



- vi -
Benefits:         The project's main benefit would be to establish an
institution focussed on directing priority health and
education services to the poor through expenditures fully
integrated into the public investment program, and fully
consistent with medium-term adjustment and sector
policies, while retaining the efficiencies of operations
achieved by ESF, an innovative temporary institution
designed to alleviate the adverse social impact of the
Government's stabilization and adjustment program.
Additional benefits would include: (a) improved
coordination among entities working in the social
sectors, including the Government ministries, SIF itself,
non-governmental organizations, local governments, and
community groups; (b) strengthened capacity of entities
providing health and education services to target
assistance to the neediest groups and to design projects
responsive to the groups' priority needs; (c) improved
access for the poorest groups to urgently needed health
and education facilities and services, thereby enhancing
their potential for better health and higher
productivity; and (d) a focal point for mobilization of
additional external resources for the social sectors.
Risks-             The risks affecting the project are mainly institutional,
since achievement of project objectives will require
that: (a) SIF be provided with sufficient autonomy and
key staff to carry out its mandate; and (b) close
coordination among key institutions (e.g., between SIF
and the ministries) be established. There is also a risk
that financial constraints may prevent continued
operation of subprojects beyond the period of SIF
finaacing. These risks are being managed through:
(a) the Government's commitment to maintain SIF with the
mandate to satisfy basic needs in health and education,
with key staff whose qualifications and experience are
satisfactory to IDA; (b) coordination agreements,
satisfactory to IDA, between SIF and the corresponding
ministries specifying, inter alia, that SIF's annual
program would be reviewed and incorporated into the
public expenditure program, and that, where operating
costs of a subproject would be covered by the
corresponding ministry, the ministry's prior approval of
the subproject would be sought; and (c) appraisal
criteria providing that approval of all subprojects will
be contingent upon presentation of a satisfactory plan
for continuation of operations beyond the investment
period and demonstration that the costs have been
included in the budget of the responsible entity.
Coordination with sector strategies would be enhanced
through participation of the Under Secretary of Planning
for Social Policies in SIF's Administrative Council and
participation of SIF's Executive Director in the National
Council for Social Policy.



- vii -
Estimated Costs: a/
Local    Foreign   Total
-------US$ Million------
SIF, Subprojects
Health                                               51.2       6.7      57.9
Education                                            26.8       2.0      28.8
Institutional Support to RAs                          0.6       0.0       0.6
Subtotal                                     78.6        8.7     87.3
SIF Institutional Development
Fixed-term SIF staff salaries, travel, training    4.8          0.2       5.0
Equipment, vehicles, maintenance                      0.6       1.8       2.4
Technical Assistance                                  0.4       0.3       0.7
Subtotal                                      5.8        2.3      8.1
ESF  Training Program                                   0.0       0.2       0.2
Total Costs                                         84.4      11.2      95.6
a/ Exclusive of taxes and duties, which are not applicable.
Financing Plan:
US$ Millions
IDA                                             20.0
IDA/Health  a/                                   5.3
RAs                                              6.9
Beneficiary Communities                         10.2
Government                                        9.6
Cofinancing                                     43.6
Total                                       95.6
a/   Amount to be channeled through SIF for health investments
under the Integrated Health Development Project.
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year              1991       1992      1993       1994
----      US$ Million--------------
Annual               3.7       8.0        6.5        1.8
Cumulative           3.7      11.7       18.2      20.0
Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Map: IBRD No. 20516



BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
I. INTRODfCTION
1.01     The Government of Bolivia has asked the Association to participate
in the financing for a new Social Investment Fund (SIF) and to take the
lead in mobilizing additional external financing on concessional terms in
support of SIF. The project supports institutional development, as well as
funding for projects in health and education, aimed at reaching those in
extreme poverty and assisting the Government in developing Bolivia's human
resource base, an essential element in its medium-term development
strategy.
1.02     During the previous Administration, the Emergency Social Fund
(ESF) was created to efficiently channel resources through infrastructure
and social assistance projects to alleviate the negative impact of the
economic crisis on those most affected and to improve delivery of basic
services to the poor. ESF is scheduled to close its operations by
March 31, 1991. The proposed project would support the creation of SIF as
an institution designed to channel investment resources to health and
education; SIF would adopt a medium-term development focus through coor-
dination of its investment funding with the Government's sector policies
and strategies in health and education and with the public sector invest-
ment program. SIF would thus assume the role of a principal executing
agency for investments in the health and education sectors.
1.03     Under two previous credits in support of ESF (Cr. 1829-BO for
US$10 million equivalent and Cr. 1882-BO for US$27 million equivalent), IDA
not only provided urgently needed financing for the effort of alleviation
of the social costs of adjustment and of poverty alleviation, but also was
instrumental in mobilizing about US$100 million in additional external
resources to support the effort. Under the proposed project, IDA would
continue to assist the Government to obtain needed financing from other
donors. The Consultative Group process would provide the main forum for
this coordination.
II. MACROECONOMIC SETTING
2.01     The Bolivian economy suffered a crisis of staggering proportions
in the first half of the 1980s. Political instability, a crushing debt
burden, an oversized and inefficient public sector, extensive controls on
economic activity, and erratic macroeconomic management combined to produce
hyperinflation (reaching 24,000 percent in 1985) and a decline in output of
10 percent by 1985. High tariffs and quantitative controls, an overvalued
exchange rate, price controls and strong regulations, caused a growing
share of production to be shifted to the informal sector. Hyperinflation
coupled with controls on interest rates and other financial restrictions
led to a flight from the peso and a sharp drop in private investment.
Economic disruption fomented intense labor disputes, as social groups
competed to at least maintain their share of a rapidly shrinking pie.



- 2 -
2.02     The Government that took office in August 1985 immediately under-
took an orthodox stabilization program which abruptly ended the hyperinfla-
tion. Strict fiscal and monetary discipline was imposed, while most price
controls were eliminated and the Bolivian peso was devalued. Bolivia has
enjoyed remarkable price stability (compared to other Latin American
countries) since 1986. In conjunction with its stabilization program, the
Government also implemented a comprehensive structural adjustment program,
with the central objective of restoring a preeminent role to the price
system in the allocation of resources and reducing the relative size and
importance of the public sector in the economy. As part of its adjustment
program, the Government: (a) eliminated most quantitative trade restric-
tions and instituted an almost uniform tariff policy; (b) liberalized
interest rates and other credit controls, while abolishing subsidies;
(c) initiated a restructuring of the banking system to increase the sound-
ness of bank portfolios; (d) eliminated price controls; (e) introduced a
flexible, market-determined interest rate policy; (f) reduced restrictions
on employment practices and wage negotiations; and (g) began a reform of
public sector enterprises, including drastic employment reductions in the
state mining company (triggered by the collapse of the price of tin in late
1985), a reorganization of the Central Bank, the first steps towards the
privatization of some state enterprises, and tighter controls on wages
throughout the public sector.
2.03     As a result of the adjustment measures, private sector confidence
has been bolstered, and its participation in the economy has grown, with
increased market competition and efficiency. The easing of employment
regulations increased labor discipline and reduced the incidence of
strikes, while productivity at the firm level increased as redundant
workers were dismissed. In the medium term, this liberalization should
increase the demand for labor and consequently lead to a rise in wages and
employment (although its short-term effect may be a general decline in
wages and employment in the formal sector of the economy). Key aspects of
public sector administration have shown remarkable improvement, thereby
contributing to the short-term fiscal adjustment while laying the basis for
continued improvement in the medium term. Achievements include: (a) an
overhaul of tax administration; (b) introduction of a public expenditure
accounting system to increase reliability of public spending data--a pre-
requisite for efficient fiscal control; (c) introduction of a computerized
system to improve planning and tracking of public investment; and
(d) strengthened capacity of the Central Bank to carry out monetary
controls.
2.04     Nevertheless, much remains to be done to improve the present
macroeconomic policy framework and to consolidate the gains already made.
The fiscal accounts must remain under tight control, and essential institu-
tional improvements must be implemented.   Continued efforts are needed
particularly in the areas of revenue collection, reform of public sector
wage and employment practices, proceeding with implementation of the
privatization program, and ensuring that the improvements in public sector
accounting recently achieved are applied to all public sector entities.
The restructuring of the banking system should be followed through to
completion, which will require a number of years. Bolivia continues to
face a huge debt burden and a large current account deficit, which still
shows the effects of the drop in terms of trade in 1985. This scarcity of
foreign exchange underscores the need to continue a flexible exchange rate
policy and to diversify and expand exports, in order to achieve a substan-



tial increase in the real exchange rate over the medium term. To achieve
the needed diversification in production, Bolivia needs a better-trained,
more efficient work force, transformation of which will require strong
improvements in the delivery of health and education services.
2.05     Investment in key social services is therefore critically
important, not only to pursue the goal of poverty alleviation, but also as
an integral part of the strategy for structural adjustment of the economy
over the medium term. The Government's program emphasizes strengthening
the health and education sectors, with SIF assigned a central role in the
process. IDA's assistance strategy for Bolivia is to support the Govern-
ment's program on three main fronts: macroeconomic adjustment, encourage-
ment of private sector development, and poverty alleviation, through
measures designed both to generate employment and income for the poor and
to improve the delivery of social services through better targeting,
increased efficiency, and extension of basic services to underserved
populations.
III. THE SOCIAL SECTORS
Social Indicators
3.01     The population of Bolivia, currently 7.1 million and growing at
2.7 percent annually, is the poorest in South America and has the worst
health profile of the continent. Moreover, the massive unemployment and
decline in real incomes caused by the economic crisis led to a deteriora-
tion in health indicators until 1986. Life expectancy is estimated at
51 years for men and 55 years for women. Infant mortality figures are
twice the average for the region, at 110 per 1,000 live births in the
1980-85 period; the rate reaches 277 per 1,000 live births in some poor
communities in the highlands and marginal urban areas. Diarrhea-parasitic
and acute respiratory infections are the most common causes of infant and
child deaths. The maternal mortality rate, at 48 per 10,000 live births,
is the highest in the hemisphere, and is associated with frequent births,
poor health conditions of mothers, lack of prenatal and delivery care, and
an alarming incidence of induced abortions. Tuberculosis is a prominent
health problem, and tropical diseases, such as malaria and Chagas' disease,
are widespread in the valley and lowland areas. Malnutrition levels are
high and endemic: about 60 percent of the population lives in families
whose income covers only 80 percent of the minimal daily food requirements,
and there is evidence of deterioration of the nutritional status of
children during the economic crisis years from 1975 to 1985.
3.02     Unsanitary living conditions exacerbate the poor health status of
the population. Only about 69 percent of the urban population anu 10 per-
cent of rural households have access to piped water, mainly of unpotable
quality. On average, 65 percent of the urban population of the four major
cities do not have excreta disposal; virtually none of the rural population
has access to such facilities.
3.03     The coverage and quality of education in Bolivia remains a con-
straint to the development of the country's human resources, in spite of a
dramatic expansion in access to education in the last 30 years (the
literacy rate increased from 32 percent in 1950 to 63 percent in 1985).



-4 -
About 70 percent of the illiterate population are rural; rates for women
are twice those for men.  Official estimates for 1987 show that 60 percent
of Bolivian six year-olds were enrolled in school, while 95 percent of nine
year-olds were enrolled; since 1980, the proportion of school-aged children
not attending school has risen by 15 percent. In addition, student dropout
and repetition rates are very high for all levels of public education, and
classroom conditions are generally very poor, especially in rural areas:
about 80 percent to 90 percent of students in rural areas and 40 percent to
50 percent in urban areas do not have access to textbooks.
Health Sector: Organization and Institutions
3.04     The health sector comprises a multiplicity of public and private
institutions. The Ministry of Social Welfare and Public Health (MPSSP),
established in 1948, includes separate Subsecretariats for Public Health
(SSP) and Social Security (SPS), both of which administer health services
(though to different segments of the population), currently reaching about
26 percent and 20 percent of the population, respectively. Coverage by
both subsecretariats has declined since 1982/83 (by 8 and 6 percentage
points, respectively), along with budgetary resources (Annex I). Non-
governmental Organizations (NGOs) serve about 20 percent of the population,
mostly in rural and peri-urban areas. A few municipalities and Regional
Development Corporations (RDCs) are active in the health sector, serving a
very small percentage of the population on an aggregate basis (though the
city of Santa Cruz supports a more extensive health service network than
does the MPSSP in that area). Private, for-profit institutions serve less
than 5 percent of the population. Traditional medicine is the only
recourse of large segments of the population, particularly in rural areas,
with about one healer per 500 people.
3.05     The current organization of the public health system administered
by the SSP was adopted in 1983 in an effort to improve fulfillment of SSP's
mandate: promotion of preventive health care.  The Health Assistance Pro-
gram (PAS) was developed since 1984 in an effort to decentralize management
of the system and to give higher priority to preventive care.   It empha-
sized community participation and provision of maternal and child care
services, workers' health, and water and sanitation. Implementation of the
PAS has been hampered by organizational problems and insufficient human and
financial resources. One of the objectives of the proposed project is to
support achievement of PAS goals by providing financing for needed invest-
ments and helping to strengthen institutional coordination between local
and central levels.
3.06     The SPS is responsible for policy making and planning of the
social security system and administers health benefits through five funds
and six insurance plans, all of which emphasize curative interventions,
mainly in hospitals, rather than preventive care. The system is character-
ized by high administrative costs, while lack of coordination inhibits
efficient use of health facilities and investment planning.
3.07     Having proliferated over the last decade, over 300 NGOs provide
health and nutrition services in Bolivia. Funded mainly from donations
raised in the United States, Europe, and Canada, most are managed by
religious, charitable, or civic institutions, and most finance and manage
only a few (or even single) service centers. Efforts to improve efficiency
by promoting coordination among NGOs in the sector began in 1983 with the



-5-
support of UNICEF, leading to the creation of Regional NGO Associations
(ASONGs) and subsequently the National NGO Association (FENASONG). The
goals of the ASONGs and FENASONG are to improve coordination among NGOs by
providing information, training, and technical assistance to members, as
well as affording them the opportunity and a forum for sharing experience
with each other. Achievement of these goals is hampered, however, by the
generally limited managerial and financial capacity and the diverse
objectives and working procedures of member NGOs. Moreover, several
important NGOs (such as Caritas) are not members.
3.08     Other Providers of Health Services.  With the exception of the
four largest cities, the local governments generally lack the resources to
provide even sanitation infrastructure and waste disposal services, which
is generally their main responsibility related to health care. However,
three of the four largest cities provide direct health services in addi-
tion to maintaining water and sanitation infrastructure: La Paz and Santa
Cruz both manage active programs providing health care services, and El
Alto supports sanitation and basic health activities based on community
participation. RDCs, though not generally active in the health sector,
have played a role in mineral- and gas-producing departments in the
planning, executing, and maintaining of health facilities, principally in
the rural areas. The role of for-profit health providers, which cater to
the middle and upper income groups in urban areas, has declined since 1987,
as a large number of private medical offices have closed as a result of the
economic recession. About 12,000 traditional practitioners (including
healers, midwives, and chemists) serve a large proportion of the popula-
tion. Support for this diverse group has been provided by UNICEF through a
practical (or "empirical") nurse training program and by the Bolivian
Society for Traditional Medicine (SOBOMETRA), an association of both tradi-
tional and conventional practitioners that emphasizes basic health care
through a combination of the two forms of practice.
3.09     Since its inception, ESF has provided funding for execution of
both investments and services by many institutions active in the health
sector, mainly NGOs, municipalities, and RDCs. In 1988, funding by ESF in
the health sector represented about 5 percent of total spending in health,
and about 15 percent of spending by MPSSP (Annex I). Under the proposed
project, both investments and services to be financed by SIF would be
planned in coordination with SSP, to assure rational programming of invest-
ments, avoid duplication of effort, and ensure adequate budgeting of
incremental operating costs.
Education Sector: Organization and Institutions
3.10     The Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) is responsible for
primary and secondary education in Bolivia. Higher education is provided
through one private and eight public universities, all of which receive
Government funding. In addition, specialized public institutes,
decentralized corporations, and private entities administer and execute
educational programs.
3.11     The public educational system consists of a 12-year cycle divided
into primary education (basic (grades 1 through 5) and intermediate (grades
6 through 8)), and secondary education (grades 9 through 12). At primary
through secondary levels, public education is administered through two
entirely separate school systems--urban and rural--each with its own



standards and teacher certification requirements. The rural system
requires less training for its teachers than the urban system, while
offering somewhat higher salaries, in an attempt (only partly successful)
to attract teachers to rural areas. In general, both public and private
resources have been disproportionately channeled to urban areas. For
example, it is estimated that 80 percent to 90 percent of rural students,
compared to 40 percent to 50 percent of urban students, lack textbooks.
While urban schools have at least five grades, most rural institutions have
only three grades. The result is higher dropout rates in rural areas: of
those pupils who entered first grade in 1979, about 77 percent of the urban
pupils reached fifth grade, compared to 30 percent in the rural areas, and
67 percent of the urban pupils continued on to the next level, as compared
to 12 percent in the rural areas. Since literacy and numeracy are not
fully achieved in the early primary grades, it is then not surprising that
of the 32 percent of the adult population who are illiterate, about 70
percent live in rural areas (while only 50 percent of the population is
rural).
3.12     Private schools include both for-profit institutions and schools
managed by non-profit NGOs, such as church groups. The private sector is
playing an increasingly important role in Bolivian education, especially in
the higher grades; in 1987/88, the percentage of students in urban areas
enrolled in private schools was about 13 percent at pre-school and basic
levels, 17 percent at intermediate level, and 22 percent at secondary
level. Moreover, several NGOs are assuming a larger role in supervising
public education. In 1988, for example, 70 communities requested that Fe y
Alegria (a Catholic NGO) assume supervisory responsibility for their public
schools.
3.13     The education system is hampered by a host of problems:  poorly
trained teachers (a natural result of low quality teacher-training
institutions and low teacher salaries); lack of systematic supervision;
lack of in-service training; an extreme scarcity of textbooks and other
instructional materials (such as paper, notebooks, and pencils); and
classrooms that are generally in poor condition, are often overcrowded and
lack adequate furniture. All of these problems are directly related to
(though not entirely explained by) inadequate budgetary resources. Public
spending on education declined by over one third in real terms between 1980
and 1988; as a percentage of GDP, spending fell from 4.1 percent in 1980 to
2.6 percent in 1988 (Annex I). As a result, current expenditures,
particularly teachers' salaries, now absorb nearly 100 percent of the
budget, crowding out investment, materials, and equipment. ESF helped to
fill the gap by providing about US$19 million in 1987(89 for educational
infrastructure construction or rehabilitation, equipment, and materials
under subprojects supervised primarily by NGOs and community groups.
3.14     While effective use of scarce investment resources requires clear
prioritization of investment projects, responsibility for investment
planning in education is diffuse and poorly coordinated. In theory, sector
goals and objectives are set by the Ministry of Planning and Coordination
(MPC), while the National Education Council assists MEC in establishing
educational policies. In reality, MPC's role is reduced to a review of
investment plans proposed by other agencies, while the decisions to build
schools are influenced heavily by the relative pressures wielded by
communities rather than through a master plan of priorities and needs.
Institutions that participate in programs to improve and expand educational



infrastructure include the National Council for School Construction
(CONES), the National Service for Technical Education, the office of
Community Development of the Ministry of Peasant and Agricultural Affairs,
the Army, RDCs, religious organizations, and peasant communities. CONES
focuses on the needs of urban areas, while most of the school construction
in rural areas is done by the Army, RDCs and NGOs.
3.15     Under the proposed project, SIF would coordinate with MEC (through
CONES) in identifying subprojects to be financed by SIF and included in the
public investment program, thereby helping to strengthen the weak existing
links of communication. As the MEC's performance in efficiently executing
projects has been mediocre at best, however, community and private sector
participation (mainly through NGOs) would continue to be emphasized.
The Emergency Social Fund (ESF)
3.16     In 1986, the Government created ESF as its primary mechanism for
directly improving the condition of the poor and for alleviating the
deterioration in social conditions stemming from the adjustment measures.
ESF was designed to address the social costs of the economic crisis and the
adjustment process by providing temporary employment for those most
adversely affected by austerity, and to shore up basic social services in a
time of declining government revenues, through fast, efficient provision of
financing for small subprojects proposed and carried out by a wide variety
of entities. To maximize speed and operational efficiency, ESF was set up
independent of the existing public bureaucratic structure, reporting
directly to the President of the Republic; was exempted from the normal
slow, cumbersome public sector procurement procedures; and was allowed to
pay higher salaries than those received by employees of the Central
Government.
3.17     Eligible subprojects have included small-scale employment-
generating subprojects and social assistance programs, all targeted to low-
income populations and areas. Financing for proposed subprojects must be
requested by local governments, RDCs, Government Ministries, NGOs, or
community groups (thus, the process of project generation is largely demand
driven). The subprojects have been executed by commercial contractors or
NGOs and supervised by a third party. ESF evaluates each subproject based
on sectoral and regional programming priorities, a site inspection, and
estimated social benefits; in the case of revenue-generating infrastructure
subprojects, a rate-of-return analysis is also carried out.
3.18     Performance and Impact of ESF.  A Project Performance Audit Report
evaluating the experience under the first IDA credit in support of ESF was
distributed to the Board on March 22, 1990. As of October 31, 1989, ESF
had approved US$144.5 million in subprojects and disbursed
US$108.0 million; 747 subprojects were in execution and 1,243 had been
completed. Subprojects are distributed in the following categories:
social infrastructure (including water and sanitation, housing, school
construction, health construction (posts and clinics), and restoration of
the cultural patrimony (e.g., historic churches)) representing 48 percent
of total commitments; economic infrastructure (including urban
improvements, roads, irrigation, drainage, erosion control, and
reforestation) representing 36 percent of total commitments; direct social
assistance (including operating costs of health and education projects,



- 8 -
such as personnel, school lunches, training, textbooks, desks,
vaccinations, and health equipment), accounting for 11 percent of total
commitments; and productive support (including lines of credit for
cooperatives and purchase of materials for self-help productive projects),
representing about 5 percent.
3.19     Benefits and achievements reflect the diversity of interventions.
In aggregate, ESF has succeeded in generating over 568,000 man-months of
employment--one of its primary objectives. Some quantified benefits by
subproject category include: (a) water and sanitation projects are
estimated to have directly benefited over 609,000 people; (b) the school
renovation and construction program has helped to stabilize the
deteriorating condition of public infrastructure, benefitting an estimated
261,000 primary school children; and (c) the road program introduced a
successful model of labor-intensive road maintenance to Bolivia, while
nearly 7,000 kilometers of rural access roads were opened or maintained,
helping to integrate rural areas into the market economy. Benefits of
social assistance projects, while harder to quantify, have provided:
(a) access to primary health care services to those subject to particularly
high health risks, primarily women and children in low-income areas,
through the construction of nearly 400 health posts; (b) administration of
nearly 2.4 million inoculations; (c) provision of about 640,000 textbooks
and nearly 64,000 desks for children of primary school age; and
(d) training programs intended to teach productive skills to mainly rural
populations reached about 25,000 trainees.
3.20     At the macroeconomic level, the investments made through ESF are
estimated to have generated an increase of as much as 2 percent in GDP.
These resources have eased the adjustment process by providing more than
US$100 million in foreign currency through the end of 1988--financing which
may not have been made available without the existence of a vehicle such as
ESF. ESF's impact within the economy has been particularly strong on the
construction industry: subprojects have been carried out by more than 800
small- and medium-sized construction firms; the number of persons employed
for at least one month under ESF-financed subprojects during 1988 is
estimated to be greater than such employment in the entire constructIon
sector before ESF.
3.21     Poverty Targeting.  ESF's mandate called first for provision of
temporary employment to individuals displaced by the economic crisis and
second for delivery of basic services to the poor. ESF has been very
effective with respect to its employment-generating objective: workers
employed under ESF-financed subprojects are generally less educated, poorer
and spend less on food per capita than the average Bolivian. A survey of
urban projects revealed that 43.1 percent of such workers' households fall
within the lowest three deciles in per capita food consumption; only 7.6
percent fall within the top three deciles. Further, it is estimated that,
on average, workers employed under ESF subprojects earned 43 percent more
than they would otherwise have earned.
3.22     With respect to ESF's second objective--provision of basic
services to the poor--surveys indicate that virtually all beneficiaries of
ESF subprojects were poor. However, ESF was not equipped to distinguish
among relative poverty levels of potential beneficiary communities, nor to
accurately target the infrastructure and social services it provided to
specific groups. The limitations in targeting resources to the neediest



- 9 -
groups is partly a direct result of the demand-driven nature of ESF.
Typically, the poorest communities are also those with the weakest
institutions, access to information, and links to communication systems.
These factors are crucial in determining Government and NGO presence in
many of the neediest areas of Bolivia; this has meant that institutional
intermediaries are not available for organizing projects in the poorest
areas. In the absence of an institution with which to work, even outreach
efforts by ESF staff could not succeed in generating projects in such
communities.
3.23     The Government and ESF leadership believed that, in view of the
devastating effects of the economic crisis on the vast majority of the
population, which lives in poverty even in prosperous times, and given the
nature of ESF subprojects, the benefits would necessarily reach the general
target group, even if the majority of beneficiaries were not at the very
bottom of the income scale. Nevertheless, ESF recognized early on the
limitations stemming from its demand-driven format of subproject
generation, and evolved mechanisms to approximate a poverty-targeted
approach. First, a Promotion Department was created to identify target
areas and approach institutions in those areas to inform them of ESF and
how they might take advantage of its benefits, encourage the demand for
social assistance projects, and provide some assistance te subproject
sponsors (RAs) in preparing acceptable proposals. Second, to help orient
the Promotion Department's activities, a system was established to set
funding targets by political Department, taking into account factors such
as: GNP per capita, institutional capacity, unemployment, infant
mortality, urban social infrastructure, condition of rural life, and school
attendance. Actual funding levels have closely adhered to these department
targets. However, in view of the wide variations in income distribution
within political departments, this was necessarily a crude mechanism.
Improved targeting of benefits would require socio-economic profiles of
potential beneficiary communities, which have not been available to date.
During 1989, a working group in ESF began to compile a data base on
communities to address this problem and to develop a methodology to improve
poverty targeting; this methodology will be used by SIF.
Lessons Learned through the ESF Experience
3.24     The ESF experience provides a number of valuables lessons.  First,
as discussed above, alleviation of structural poverty requires modification
of the demand-driven format with greater direction and care in targeting
investments and services to ensure that the neediest groups are benefited
and that their most urgent needs are addressed. Second, the large role
played by NGOs in the health and education sectors underscores the value of
continuing to build the links established with such agencies (paras. 3.07,
3.12). ESF achieved notable success in establishing a cooperative
relationship with NGOs and other private groups working at the local level,
setting an encouraging precedent for future efforts. It was ESF's reliance
on such agencies that made possible the rapid identification of hundreds of
small projects. Reliance on contracts with the private sector for
execution of civil works and other aspects of subproject execution was also
important in achieving rapid disbursements. Third, financing of
investments must be coordinated with budgeting of funds to cover operating
costs to ensure the flow of benefits from infrastructure investments.
Fourth, a simplified procurement process can be successfully applied for
small and widely dispersed subprojects, provided an effective system of



- 10 -
quality control supplies the necessary checks and balances. Fifth, highly
qualified leadership and staff is essential to the success of such a
program, and the incremental costs made necessary by the higher-than-
average salaries needed to attract such staff are exceeded by the
efficiencies obtained, both in speed and in quality of work accomplished.
All of these lessons are being taken into account in the design of SIF and
the proposed project.
Transition from Emergency to Longer-Term Development
3.25     A longer-term, development-oriented perspective evolved within the
Government as the sense of economic emergency gave way to a more considered
appraisal of Bolivia's development needs. The Government's long-term
development strategy would emphasize private sector initiatives to generate
employment (para. 2.05), while public spending would focus more heavily on
development of Bolivia's human resources by improving provision of
essential health and education services. This effort will require strong
management to assure that investments in social infrastructure and services
are allocated within coherent sectoral development strategies by effective
institutions.
3.26     The central question concerns how best to pursue these long-term
objectives, and specifically, what is the most effective long-term
institutional arrangement to accomplish these goals. In view of ESF's
considerable success in efficiently channeling investment resources in a
number of sectors, the possibility of continuing ESF, either in its
existing form or with some modifications, was considered. However, several
factors weigh against this choice. First, ESF was not designed as an
instrument to integrate its projects with sector strategies and the overall
public investment program, but rather to select subprojects quickly with
strong emphasis on their short-term Amployment effect. Since it funded a
broad range of investments in several different sectors, in some cases
acting in areas that were more properly under the purview of other
agencies, there exists a potential for duplication of effort,
inconsistencies, and therefore inefficient resource allocation, which would
increase with time. Second, the exemptions from normal public sector
operating procedures granted ESF could not be continued on a long-term
basis without creating distortions within the public administration.
3.27     At the same time, it was recognized that the MPSSP and MEC--the
line ministries in the very sectors in which the Government wishes to
increase its resource allocation for both investment and services--have
relatively weak capacity for planning and supervising the execution of
investments. In contrast to agencies in other sectors in which ESF was
active, such as roads, the requirements of managing large and complex
systems for provision of health and education services, respectively, leave
MPSSP and MEC few resources (either financial or human) to dedicate to the
sectors' investment needs. To address this problem, the Government decided
that what was needed was a permanent institution that would: focus
exclusively on health and education; be structured to coordinate with the
respective ministries, with its programming well integrated into the sector
strategies and investment plans; build upon ESF's strengths with respect to
efficient funding and management of investment projects and coordination
with the wide range of public and private agencies, particularly NGOs,
active in health and education (paras. 3.07-3.08, 3.12); and target its
benefits to the neediest communities (a mandate that the sectoral



- 11 -
ministries, are at present ill equipped to carry out). Such an institution
would complement rather than duplicate the efforts of the line ministries
and would be a cost-effective way of enhancing public investment capacity
in these critical sectors. The Social Investment Fund (SIF) has been
created to carry out this mandate. Over the longer term, as the sectoral
ministries acquire the necessary project planning, execution, and
evaluation capabilities, as well as the ability to target benefits to the
poorest segments of the population, SIF itself would be phased out.
3.28     The operating life of ESF has been extended to March 31, 1991 (it
was originally to have been closed at the end of 1989), to permit a smooth
transfer of its systems to SIF, while it phases out its own subproject
financing activities. ESF's "bank' of subproject proposals (those that
have been pre-appraised but that ESF was unable to finance due to funding
or time constraints) in areas such as roads, housing and irrigation will be
transferred to the appropriate agencies. In addition, the ESF has
developed a program for training staff of interested public institutions to
familiarize them with ESF's systems for managing information and
controlling costs in the process of subproject appraisal and execution.
This program would be supported under the proposed project.
The Social Investment Fund (SIF)
3.29     Drawing on the ESF experience, SIF has beer created as an
institution capable of attracting and efficiently channelling external
resources to help address the country's needs in health and education. Its
objectives are to: (a) increase external assistance to the social sectors
by providing an efficient mechanism for donors to. contribute to priority
investments in health and education; (b) extend coverage of health,
education, and water and sanitation services to reach more of the poor in
Bolivia; and (c) provide a coordinating link with the many agencies active
in the social sectors, including them as participants (subproject proposers
and executors) in its program. It will not adopt ESF's central goal of
employment generation in choosing subprojects for funding, and will stress
instead identification of subprojects that would meet the most urgent needs
of poor communities. (Annex II presents a summary of SIF's main features
compared with those of ESF).
3.30     Organizational Structure and Staffing.  The Supreme Decree that
established the SIF provided it with legal autonomy under the direct
oversight of the President of the Republic (Annex III). The Executive
Director of SIF, appointed by the President, has the rank of Minister.
SIF's Executive Director is a full member of the National Council on Social
Policy (CONAPSO), which is chaired by the President of the Republic and
comprises the Minister of Planning and Coordination (MPC) (Vice President
of CONAPSO), and the Ministers of MPSSP, MEC, and Labor. The
Administrative Council (CA), SIF's Board of Directors, consists of SIF's
Executive Director, the Under Secretary of Planning for Social Policy, and
three other members appointed by the President. The CA is charged wi h
establishing SIF's internal structure, work programs, and procedures,
approving all subprojects for SIF financing, and presenting semi-annual
reports of SIF's activities to the Government.
3.31     SIF's Executive Director is supported by a Deputy Director, three
operational departments (Health, Education, and Supervision), four
administrative departments (Legal Affairs, Fund-raising, Administration and



- 12 -
Information), and two units (Auditing and Technical Control) which report
directly to the Executive Director. SIF would have a professional staff of
about 100 people (65 percent of ESF's staff). Administrative costs of ESF
have averaged about 3 percent of its total overall budget; SIF's annual
administrative costs are expected to reach about 4 percent to 5 percent of
its total annual budget, owing to more intensive promotion and evaluation
procedures. About one third of SIF's administrative costs would be covered
by support from the National Treasury; the balance would be funded by
external donors (it is expected that all cofinanciers would allocate a
percentage of total funding to administrative costs).
3.32     Programming.  While the capacity of ESF was determined primarily
by the level of international support available, SIF's programming would be
mainly a function of the absorptive capacity of the social sectors. Once
fully operational, SIF expects to commit about US$40 million annually to
subprojects in health and education (compared with US$23 million committed
annually by ESF in those sectors). Although SIF's ability to fund
subprojects will ultimately still depend on the international community's
continued willingness to provide financing, the amount that can be
committed annually will also be heavily determined by the speed with which
the more demanding subproject appraisal procedures (which require
application of poverty targeting mechanisms and appraisal of requesting
agency institutional capacity, including their ability to finance the
recurrent costs of SIF-financed subprojects) can be accomplished. Average
subproject size is estimated at US$70,000.
IDA Assistance Strategy in the Social Sectors
3.33     Under the umbrella of IDA's overall strategy for support of the
Government's objectives of laying the basis for sustained economic growth
and improving the living conditions of the bulk of the population
(para. 2.05), IDA's strategy for assistance in the social sectors is
focused on long-term institutional strengthening, development of
appropriate sector policies and strategies, concentration of resources on
primary health and education, and extension of coverage through financing
for both public and private agencies. As part of this strategy, IDA has
supported ESF with two credits (1829-BO of SDR 7.8 million (US$10 million
equivalent), intended as a pilot project, and 1882-BO of SDR 19 million
(US$27 million equivalent), intended as support for the main phase of ESF
operations).  In addition, IDA is supporting the strengthening of MPSSP
with a credit for the Integrated Health Development Project (paras. 3.34(c)
and 4.06, below). IDA played a particularly active role in collaborating
with ESF in the setting of program objectives and procedures and in the
supervision of ESF. As a result, IDA was instrumental in mobilizing
cofinancing for the two projects; the success of the ESF program has also
attracted other donor support for ESF not tied to the IDA-financed
projects.
3.34     The proposed project is an integral part of the package of actions
developed by the Government to fulfill its broad social and economic
objectives. The proposed credit would provide IDA support for the vital
transition from ESF to the development objectives of SIF, while assuring
continued financing for urgently needed investments in health and education



- 13 -
essential to human resource development in Bolivia. It would complement
other ongoing and proposed IDA-supported projects, including:
(a) the Economic Management Strengthening Operation (EMSO)
(Cr. 1977-BO), which supports strengthening of public sector
management and improved coordination of the public investment
program;
(b) the Export Corridors Project (Cr. 2012-BO), which supports
export promotion and reduction of export delivery costs
through improvements in transport infrastructure. A portion
of the credit (for labor-intensive maintenance works and
drainage improvements on the main routes) was designed to be
channelled through ESF during its final phase;
(c) the Integrated Health Development Project (IHDP), which
supports institutional development of MPSSP, improved training
and distribution of human resources, and the implementation of
an Integrated Health Care Model in the cities of Santa Cruz,
Cochabamba, La Paz and El Alto. Financing for infrastructure
under the project will be channelled through SIF;
(d) a proposed Primary Education Project, which would support
institutional development for the education sector, including
strengthened planning and management of the primary education
systems; and
(e) two proposed projects in water and sanitation: (a) an urban
project to extend the existing infrastructure network in
Bolivia's major cities; and (b) a rural water supply project
in low-income communities in the Altiplano area.
3.35     The complementarity of the proposed project with those listed
above is in itself an important element in IDA's assistance strategy.
IDA's support for policy and sector strategy formulation through the EMSO
project, the IHDP, and, eventually, the proposed Primary Education Project,
would strengthen the policy guidance to be provided by line ministries to
the SIF. Support for SIF through the proposed project would help to assure
effective translation of those policies into investment and actions at the
community level, through its strong emphasis on community participation and
its specific mandate to identify and help satisfy the basic needs of the
poorest segments of the population.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01     The principal objective of the project is to support the initial
phase (1990 through 1993) of the SIF program, with a view to assisting the
Government in its effort to improve the coverage and quality of services in
health and education by: (a) devolving increased responsibility to local
governments and NGOs; (b) shifting priorities towards basic and preventive
health care and towards primary education; (c) developing mechanisms to
improve the targeting of social programs to the poor; and (d) introducing



- 14 -
procedures to facilitate coordination among the various actors in the
social sectors. The project would also contribute to the Government's
ongoing effort to strengthen public sector institutions' project executing
capacity through support for a training program for selected public
agencies to familiarize them with ESF's information management systems.
IDA's support for the project forms an integral part of its sectoral and
overall assistance strategy for Bolivia (paras. 3.34-3.35).
Summary Project Description
4.02     The proposed project would consist of:  (a) SIF subprojects;
(b) SIF institutional development; and (c) an ESF training program. The
proceeds of the credit would be lent to the Republic of Bolivia, which
would pass them on in grant form to SIF and ESF, which would have overall
responsibility for execution of their respective parts of the project.
SIF's financing of subprojects would be on grant terms.
4.03     SIF Subprojects.  The project would support subprojects in the
education and health sectors selected by SIF according to selection
criteria and appraisal procedures agreed with IDA (Annex IV). The project
is defined to include all subprojects carried out by SIF and financed in
part with funds provided by cofinanciers under the project, as well as
those financed in part from the proceeds of the proposed credit. All such
subprojects are to be selected according to the same eligibility criteria
and carried out under the same appraisal and supervision procedures as are
applicable to subprojects financed from the proceeds of the proposed
credit. Moreover, subprojects financed from other sources would also be
governed by the same rules. Eligible subprojects under the project would
include: (a) health, including nutrition programs (day-care centers,
school lunch programs, and basic infrastructure and training for
communities in improving the nutritional content of their diet); basic and
primary health care (health posts and limited immunization campaigns); and
basic water supply and sanitation infrastructure; (b) education, including
construction or repair of primary school classrooms and small community
libraries, and provision of equipment, furniture and texts; and short-term
adult literacy and practical training programs; and (c) institutional
support of Requesting Agencies (defined as public or private agencies that
propose subprojects for SIF financing), to permit expansion of their
services to underserved areas. RAs selected for institutional support
subprojects would be appraised to determine institutional capacity
according to a methodology satisfactory to IDA. Such subprojects would be
designed to support an investment subproject in either health or education
to be carried out by the RA in an underserved area and would be conditioned
on the carrying out of that investment subproject.
4.04     SIF Institutional Development.  This component would consist of:
(a) support for the administration of SIF during its initial three years:
(b) improvement of an information system and data base intended to enhance
SIF's ability to appropriately design, target and monitor subprojects, with
a view to maximizing their desired impact; and (c) consultants, services to
carry out studies related to the development and improvement of SIF's
financial management and operational capability. To achieve the above
purposes, the credit would finance about 130 man-months of technical
assistance, 100 man-years of fixed-term technical staff time, training and
travel expenses related to the administration of SIF, and incidental
expenses related mainly to data collection.



- 15 -
Detailed Project Description
4.05     SIF Subprojects.  The following types of subprojects would be
eligible for financing under the project.1 (Detailed subproject selection
criteria are provided in Annex IV).
(a) Health
(i)   Day care and child nutrition centers:  Construction, repair,
or expansion of facilities, provision of equipment and
supplies, and financing of operating costs (for a maximum of
18 months) of centers: (a) providing day care for children
of 6 months to 6 years, in single-parent households or whose
parents must both work; or (b) providing meals to children
under the age of 14 who must work full time;
(ii) School meal programs: Provision of equipment and operating
costs (for a maximum of 18 months) to assist in initiating
programs for the distribution of one meal per day to
children of pre-school age to 12 years in areas judged to
suffer from significant nutritional deficiencies;
(iii) Nutrition training and development programs: An integrated
program designed to improve the diet of poor rural
communities, consisting of installation of basic
infrastructure (such as wells or cisterns and simple
greenhouse structures of plastic sheeting), provision of
simple tools, seeds, and fertilizers, and training for
beneficiaries in improving the nutritional quality of their
diets.
(iv) Basic and primary health care: Construction, expansion, or
repair of health posts, provision of basic equipment,
supplies, and medicines, financing of personnel and other
operating costs (for a maximum of 18 months), training for
para-medical personnel (nurse's aids, midwives, and health
promotion agents), and basic health and hygiene education
programs for the beneficiary communities.
(v)   Immunization campaigns:  Provision of medicines and
supplies, travel expenses, and material for community
education required for the carrying out of immunization
campaigns in areas threatened by epidemics of specific
diseases and with a high percentage of population in SIF's
target group.
(vi) Water supply and basic sanitation: Installation of basic
infrastructure (e.g. wells, distribution pipes or ducts,
small-scale sewerage systems or latrines), in marginal urban
1/ SIF also plans to finance from other sources, as available, cultural
subprojects, such as rehabilitation of buildings of historical or
cultural interest. SIF's approval of financing for such subprojects
would be contingent on specific earmarking of funds for the purpose by
exte-nal donors or lenders.



- 16 -
areas and rural communities, combined with training for
communities in the importance, treatment and use of safe,
potable water and the importance of basic hygiene.
(b)   Education
(i)  Construction, expansion, or repair of primary school
buildings in depressed urban areas or rural areas, and/or
provision of equipment, furniture, instructional supplies,
or textbooks.
(ii)  Repair or expansion of buildings or rooms for use as
libraries in target communities, as a complement to ongoing
formal or informal educational programs; provision of
equipment, furniture, and reading materials; and financing
of operating costs (for up to 18 months).
(iii) Repair or expansion of facilities used for short-term
training programs for adults with less than secondary
education, provision of tools and supplies, and financing of
operating expenses (for up to 18 months).
(c) Institutional Support for RAs
Construction of new buildings or modification of existing
structures, together with provision of equipment, supplies
and financing of initial operating costs (up to 18 months)
necessary to permit installation of a base of operations in
an underserved target community. Institutional support
subprojects must be linked to a subproject in health or
education.
4.06     To ensure sustainability of subproject benefits, all RAs would be
required to submit a plan for coverage of subproject operating costs beyond
the start-up period as a condition of approval. All subprojects involving
construction would adhere to SIF guidelines incorporating norms
established by and agreed with MPSSP or MEC. Funds for investment under
the IHDP would be channeled through SIF, which would be responsible for
their supervision. Any additional health subprojects that would involve
new construction would be based on similar designs, and would receive final
approval by MPSSP. In education, prototype models for primary schools used
under the ESF program were found to be generally cost effective and would
serve as general models. Mechanisms have been established for coordination
of SIF with the MPSSP and MEC, respectively, to ensure consistency of all
subprojects with sectoral policies, investment plans, and, where necessary,
current expenditure budgets (see paras. 5.13-5.14, below).
4.07     SIF Institutional Development.  The institutional development
component would focus on building the institutional capacity of SIF as well
as on the smooth phase-out of ESF and dissemination of its information
systems and subproject appraisal and supervision methodologies to selected
public agencies.
4.08     Institutional strengthening of SIF.  As compared with ESF, SIF's
mandate calls for substantially greater emphasis on poverty targeting,
institutional issues (including assessment of RAs) and monitoring and



- 17 -
evaluation of subprojects, to include assessment of the subprojects' real
impact on beneficiary groups. SIP would require technical assistance to
develop improved methodologies for these tasks and to train staff in their
correct use. Specifically, consultants would be needed to assist in
development of guidelines for measurement of poverty in a community and
assessment of priority needs; appropriate adaptation of subproject models
to local conditions and needs; appraisal of institutional capacity of RAs
(particularly important in the case of social assistance (e.g. nutrition or
training) subprojects); appropriate methodologies for monitoring the
execution and impact of various types of health and education projects; and
optimal design of informal training programs. In addition, the increased
need for information management and analysis would require a D.inicomputer
and software to enhance the systems that SIF would share with ESF and
retain when ESF closes; technical assistance would be needed for the
installation of the new equipment and to help SIF eliminate problems in its
use as they arise. Finally, SIF would also receive periodic technical
assistance to strengthen technical skills and to analyze and recommend
solutions to operational problems as they arise. A total of 130 man-months
of technical assistance would be used for these tasks. Final terms of
reference for each task would be submitted to IDA for review prior to
selection of consultants; selection would be carried out according to
procedures satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.11). (Annex V provides detailed
descriptions of tasks for which technical assistance will be required).
4.09     SIF Operations.  The project includes support to establish SIP as
an institution with the administrative and technical soundness required to
achieve the objectivres of the program. To accomplish this objective, the
costs (during 1990 through 1993) of salaries of fixed-term technical and
managerial staff, their travel and training expenses, additional office
equipment and supplies have been included in the project cost and would be
partially financed from the proposed credit. Included in the
administrative costs are expenses related to development of an expanded
information management system, including a data base of community profiles,
which would be used not only in the course of SIF operations, but is also
expected to be a valuable input for MEC, MPSSP, and MPC in planning public
expenditures, including investments. SIF's administrative costs also
include those related to developing an enhanced program of monitoring and
evaluation of subprojects as well as periodic evaluation of SIF's
institutional performance which will entail substantially more allocation
of SIF staff time. The monitoring exercise would be carried out yearly
under terms of reference designed in consultation with IDA.
4.10     ESF Training Program.  The project would support the carrying out
of a training program for other public agencies to familiarize them with
ESF's systems for information management used in subproject appraisal and
supervision. The program would be organized as a series of seminars; the
outline for the seminars, together with the list of teaching materials and
criteria for selection of participating agencies, would be subject to IDA's
prior review.



- 18 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Institutional Arrangements
5.01     SIF. SIF would have overall responsibility for the project, except
for the ESF training program. The Borrower would pass on the proceeds of
the credit in grant form under subsidiary contractual arrangements,
satisfactory to IDA, to be signed by the Borrower with SIF and ESF,
respectively. It would be a condition of effectiveness that the
contractual arrangement between the Borrower and SIF had been duly signed
and ratified (para. 8.03 (a)). It would be a condition of disbursement for
the ESF Training component that the contractual arrangement between the
Borrower and ESF had been duly signed and ratified (para. 8.04 (a)).
5.02     SIF was established by supreme decree under the direct oversight
of the President of the Republic with the mandate to satisfy basic needs in
health and education for the poorest segments of the population. To
strengthen its coordination with the normative ministries in the social
sectors, the Under Secretary of Planning for Social Policy will sit on its
administrative council, and the National Commission on Social Policy
(CONAPSO--an inter-ministerial commission that includes the Ministers of
Public Health and Education) would approve its work program. It would be a
condition of effectiveness that a Regulatory Decree incorporating SIF's by-
laws specifying its organizational structure had been issued in a form
satisfactory to IDA (para 8.03 (b)). Assurances were obtained at
negctiations that the mandate, scope of operations, structure, operating
procedures, and staffing of SIF would continue to be maintained in a manner
satisfactory to IDA (para. 8.02 (a)).
5.03     ESF.  ESF would have responsibility for carrying out the training
component, as well as for phasing out its operations by March 31, 1991 and
for the orderly transfer of its physical assets to SIF by June 30, 1991.
At negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on an
implementation program specifying, inter alia, the arrangements and
timetable for carrying out ESF's training program, and a timetable for the
phase-out of ESF operations, the transfer of its assets to SIF by 'une 30,
1990, and its termination by no later than September 30, 1991
(para. 8.02 (b)) (Annex VI).
Subprcject Identification and Appraisal
5.04     SIF has adopted a subproject processing cycle that differs in
important respects from the pattern of project generation employed by ESF
(paras. 3.17, 3.22), reflecting SIF's more active role with respect to
subproject selection to assure consistency with sector policies and
adequate targeting of benefits to underserved groups. As distinct from
ESF, which undertook promotion mainly to carry out an initial screening of
subprojects proposed by RAs and help stimulate demand for social assistance
subprojects, SIF has developed two forms of promotion, which it terms
active and passive. Its active promotion program would employ its new
poverty targeting methodology to identify needy communities which had been
beyond the reach of ESF, assess the most urgent needs of those communities,
and identify institutions to serve as RAs (paras. 5.05-5.08). Under the
passive promotion program, SIF would receive subproject proposals submitted
by RAs and screen them for consistency with priorities of MPSSP or MEC and



- 19 -
with poverty targeting criteria. In both cases, at least two site visits
would be made to verify that the proposed subproject is appropriate to the
needs of the community and that the intended beneficiaries are part of the
target group. Thus, while subproject selections would still be made in
response to proposals from RAs, the proposals themselves would be guided by
SIF through its promotion program, which would be based on this initial
needs assessment (Annex VII).
5.05     Poverty targeting.  SIF's major tarc:3t population is defined as
communities with a majority of the populatioui with rates of infant
mortality greater than 170 per 1,000 live births and illiteracy over 40
percent of the adult population (lack of available data precludes use of
family income as a defining variable). As community-level data are not
available, SIF has developed an approach based on identification of target
cantons (roughly the equivalent of counties), which would permit continuous
refinement as its data base of community profiles is built (Annex VII).
The first step in identifying target cantons was the construction of maps
showing the location of existing health and education infrastructure. This
data is then combined with population data and available indicators on
health and education for each area.
5.06     Each project presented for approval by an RA would be screened at
three levels. First, its general geographical location would be considered
and evaluated against available survey data or poverty maps. Second, if a
community profile does not already exist in the data base, one would be
developed based on a site visit by SIF staff; the profile would include the
results of interviews with representatives of both the community and the
RA, as well as information regarding factors such as climatic zone,
resource base, existence and quality of infrastructure (especially for
health (including sanitation) and education), basic services, the economic
base, and general socio-cultural factors. Third, the proposed subproject
itself would be evaluated in terms of its intended beneficiary group, in
comparison with the assessment of priority needs generated by the community
profile.
5.07     The more difficult problem in targeting benefits concerns reaching
those communities which have no advocate organization to serve as RA. To
organize this effort, several provinces characterized by acute poverty will
be selected on the basis of the poverty maps currently available. SIF will
then identify organizations already working within those provinces and
assess their potential for expanding their activities into underserved
communities, as well as their capacity for implementing projects.
Promotional efforts would then be directed through these organizations,
with assistance provided as necessary in the formulation of project
proposals. Where indicated, support may be provided to assist qualified
agencies in extending their operations to target areas (para. 4.05 (c)).
5.08     In the short term, there will be an unavoidable gap in targeting
efforts, resulting from the fact that critically poor communities will not
be included in the first phase of promotional efforts, as a result of
limitations of data to identify them, or because their remoteness of
location combined with relatively small population may make the cost of
delivering services prohibitive. Nevertheless, the mechanisms described
above should make possible both the prevention of "leakage" of benefits to
relatively well-off areas, and extension of benefits to an increasing
percentage of the neediest among the poor. Primary responsibility for



- 20 -
poverty targeting will lie with SIF's Education and Health Departments,
each of which will include a Promotion Unit. Guidelines for application of
the poverty targeting and all aspects of pre-appraisal screening of
subprojects are contained in a draft Promotion Manual; agreement was
reached on the content of the Manual during negotiations (para. 8.01 (a)).
It would be a condition of effectiveness that the Promotion Manual had been
approved by SIF's CA in a form satisfactory to IDA (para. 8.03(c)).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the procedures set forth in
the guide would be applied in the process of subproject identification
(para. 8.02 (c)).
5.09     Appraisal of Subprojects. A subproject is defined as the minimum
set of activities and/or items necessary to assure the realization of
expected benefits. In determining the costs of subprojects, SIF would take
into account the imputed value of the contribution (in kind or in cash) to
be made by the beneficiary community, as well as all financial costs. No
subproject would exceed US$500,000. SIF's appraisal of subprojects would
take into account a series of factors, including: (a) for water and
sanitation subprojects (in conjunction with health projects), economic
analysis, including rate-of-return calculation; (b) for subprojects for
which quantitative economic analysis is not applicable (e.g., social
assistance, school construction, health post construction), an assessment
of cost effectiveness es reflected in their cost per beneficiary; (c) for
subprojects involving construction, adherence to norms for appropriate
waste disposal and environmental impact in general; (d) provision for
maintenance of infrastructure and/or sustainability of subproject operation
beyond the project period, including recovery of operating costs by the RA
where appropriate; (e) adherence to norms established by the MPSSP and/or
MEC, wherever applicable; and (f) site visits and assessment of the
institutional capacity of the RA and of the proposed subproject Supervisor,
who will be chosen on the basis of technical qualifications to supervise
the works/activities of the subproject (in some cases, it may be the RA
itself). The methodology to be used in the appraisal of each type of
subproject is described in detail in an Evaluation Manual containing
detailed selection criteria for each type of subproject; a final draft of
the Evaluation Manual was reviewed at negotiations, and agreement was
reached on its content (para. 8.01 (a)). It would be a condition of
effectiveness that the CA had approved the Evaluation Manual in a form
satisfactory to IDA (para. 8.03 (c)). Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that all subprojects would be selected according to the
procedures and guidelines set forth in the Manual (para. 8.02(c)).
5.10     For some types of subprojects, SIF and IDA have agreed that
improved selection criteria or design standards are required. In these
cases, technical assistance has been included in the project to assist in
the preparation of improved designs or appraisal methodologies. Included
in this category are subprojects for: nutritional development and training
programs, water supply and basic sanitation, literacy and practical train-
ing programs, and institutional support for RAs. During negotiations, it
was agreed that development of methodologies for selection and appraisal of
the respective subprojects in a manner satisfactory to IDA and their incor-
poration into the Evaluation Manual would be a condition of disbursement
for each of these groups of subprojects; it was further agreed that
development of institutional appraisal criteria and their incorporation
into the Evaluation Manual would be an additional condition of disbursement
for subprojects for institutional support for RAs (para 8.06 (b)).



- 21 -
5.11     Review by IDA.  SIF would have authority to approve subprojects
(as defined in para. 5.09) costing less than US$250,000 equivalent that
fall within agreed project selection criteria. Subprojects that: (a) have
a total cost of more than US$250,000; (b) fall within the categories of
health or education and are consistent with SIF's targeting objectives, but
would support activities and services other than those specified in the
Evaluation Manual; or (c) for which circumstances may justify division of a
project into two or more contracts; would be submitted to IDA for prior
review. In cases where SIF considers that economies may be obtained
through division of a subproject into various contracts, the subproject
proposal, together with the proposal for procurement of the goods or works
required, would be submitted for IDA's prior review. The first 10
subprojects under health and education, respectively, and the first two
subprojects for institutional support for RAs would be submitted for ex
ante review by IDA. All subprojects would be subject to random ex post
review by IDA during project supervision. (This procedure diff-rs from
that followed under the two ESF projects, which required ex post review by
IDA of all subprojects costing from US$50,000 to US$250,000, as well as ex
ante review of all subprojects over US$250,000). Final terms of reference
for all technical assistance would also be subject to IDA's review prior to
selection of consultants (para. 4.08). The Government's and SIF's
agreement to the above procedures for prior review was obtained at
negotiations (para. 8.02 (d)).
5.12     Contracting and Execution of Subprojects.  Upon selection of a
subproject and selection of the supplier or contractor (paras. 6.09-6.13),
a multilateral agreement would be signed by SIF, the RA, and the contractor
or supplier selected. In addition, a separate contract would be signed
with an independent Supervisor for all infrastructure subprojects (if
different from the RA). Model contracts have been reviewed and found
satisfactory to IDA. In general, legal contracts would not be used for
supervision of social services projects (such as training or nutrition
programs), since experience has shown that the use of contracts in such
cases can be counterproductive. Following presentation by the contractor
of a performance bond (bank guarantee), SIF would disburse an advance of 20
percent of total subproject cost (the same practice as followed by ESF); in
cases where the remoteness of a subproject or other factors warrant, a
larger advance may be approved by IDA. Further disbursements would be made
according to the progress of physical works, as certified independently by
both the subproject Supervisor and a SIF field representative. During the
transition stage from ESF to SIF, ESF field offices in Cochabamba, Santa
Cruz, Potosi, Oruro, La Paz, Tarija and Sucre would be used jointly for
supervision and disbursements, to be turned over to SIF once ESF completes
supervision of its projects. SIF's Supervision Department would provide
technical assistance to RAs in basic budgeting and accounting to improve
efficiency of the utilization of resources generated by the project (e.g.,
user fees and tariffs), where applicable, with a view to assuring a
stronger basis for subproject sustainability. Details of the above
procedures are included in SIF's Supervision Manual, the content of which
was agreed at negotiations (para. 8.01 (a)).
Sector Coordination
5.13     SIF's overall strategy and plan would be presented to CONAPSO, of
which SIF's Executive Director is a member. In developing its annual
operational budget, which would be fully articulated within the annual



- 22 -
public investment program, SIF's management would establish geographic
priorities based on its poverty targeting methodology and would agree on
these priorities with the MPSSP ana MEC. For those subprojects for which
Government funds would be needed as counterpart during project execution or
to cover recurrent costs thereafter, final approval of the subproject by
the corresponding ministry would be required. The principles of
coordination are set forth in agreements to be signed by SIF and the MPSSP
and MEC, respectively, as a condition of effectiveness (para. 8.03 (d)).
The details of procedures to assure coordination are also described in
SIF's Promotion and Evaluation Manuals, to be approved by the CA as a
condition of effectiveness (para. 8.03 (b)).
5.14     Following up on the positive experience of ESF. SIF would assure
that subprojects carried out by NGOs are not only consistent with sector
priorities, but also conform to Government norms (incorporated into SIF's
subproject appraisal guidelines) for design, scale and quality. SIF would
work through existing networks of NGOs, such as the ASONGs, to avoid the
duplication of activities and effort that has occurred among NGOs operating
in the same area.
Information Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation
5.15     ESF has developed an efficient, computer-based management
information system, used mainly to track physical and financial progress of
the more than 2,300 subprojects submitted for its consideration. The
equipment and software would be shared with SIF in 1990 and transferred to
SIF upon ESF's closing. Under SIF, a Directorate of Information would be
established, with the responsibility to expand the scope of information
management to include full monitoring of the processing of subproject
proposals, supervision of subproject execution, and maintenance of internal
monitoring indicators, such as average time spent at each stage of
processing, and data such as commitments, disbursements, and average cost
per beneficiary organized by subproject type (Annex VIII). The system
would also be used for the establishment and maintenance of "community
profiles"--sets of social indicators on communities where ESF- or SIF-
financed projects have been, or will be, carried out. Indicators would be
used to reflect the number and type of beneficiaries of each type of
subproject, such as the number of children by age group receiving text
books, vaccinations, and school lunches, in order to monitor real benefits
provided under SIF subprojects.
5.16     At a second level, monitoring would be carried out to evaluate
SIF's own performance in identifying, appraising, and supervising the
execution of subprojects, as well as that of RAs. The goals of this work
would be to identify persistent problems arising under subprojects,
recommend solutions to them, and assess the degree to which SIF's goals are
being achieved under current approaches, guidelines and practices. In
connection with these reviews, SIF will take account of any evolution in
sector strategies, changes in sector expenditure plans, and progress in
implementing them. Technical assistance would be used to help SIF carry
out annual surveys and performance evaluations (Annex V, paras. 22-26).
5.17     Finally, longer-term monitoring would be carried out to measure
the impact of subprojects on the health and educati^n profile of
beneficiary communities, based on a comparison with pre-project data. The
assistance of the National Statistical Institute (INE) would be enlisted in



- 23 -
designing and carrying out surveys to ensure comparability with national
data. Technical assistance would be used to carry out periodic sample
surveys, beginning in the third year of SIF operations. A timetable for
establishment of baseline indicators is included in the implementation
program agreed upon at negotiations (para. 8.01 (b)).
Supervision
5.18     SIF would enhance its ability to monitor the quality of
construction and social services through the creat n of a Technical
Control (Fiscalia) Unit (TCU), which would report directly to the Executive
Director. The TCU would review periodically the work of the Supervision
Department and the subproject (non-SIF) Supervisors and would be
responsible for bringing to the Executive Director's attention any problems
or irregularities and recommending action for their solution. TCU's
records and reports would be made available to IDA for review during
project supervision. During negotiations, a draft of the Supervision
Manual was reviewed and understanding reached on its content, on final
Terms of Reference for the TCU; agreement was reached on provision for
IDA's access to TCU and Supervision Department records and reports
(para. 8.02 (e)).
Beneficiary Contributions
5.19     The total cost of each subproject involving construction would
include items to be contributed by the beneficiaries, generally in the form
of land, labor, and materials. The exact proportion of beneficiary
contribution to investment would vary by subproject type and the assessed
resources of the beneficiaries. RAs would also contribute to subproject
cost, usually in cash. In addition, SIF would require that RAs provide
evidence of their ability to maintain operation of the subproject beyond
the period of SIF assistance as one of the criteria of subproject selection
(para. 4.06). For many types of subprojects, such plans would be based in
part on application of user fees, although support from other sources is
also envisioned. Where appropriate and feasible, plans to involve
beneficiaries themselves in the maintenance of physical infrastructure
would be encouraged. In particular, mechanisms would be developed with the
help of technical assistance to facilitate the management of maintenance
and operation of water supply and basic sanitation infrastructure by
beneficiaries themselves (Annex V).
Accounts, Auditing, and Reporting
5.20     While the proposed project would not provide financing for ESF
subprojects, IDA continues to have administrative responsibility for the
financing provided to ESF by a number of cofinanciers for which funds are
still disbursing. Therefore, ESF would continue to maintain records and
report to IDA as agreed under Credit 1882-BO. SIF would maintain its own
separate accounts, disaggregated by type of subproject, technical
assistance activity, or administrative cost category, and by expenditures
financed by IDA, other donors (by name), and the Government. All project
accounts, the Special Account, and all disbursements against Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) would be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA in accordance with the Bank/IDA guidelines (para. 6.07).
SIF would submit to IDA its audit reports within four months of the end of
each year (i.e. before April 30 of the following year). A final audit



- 24 -
report for ESF would be prepared and sent to IDA no later than
July 31, 1991. All audit reports would certify that the funds were used
for the purposes for which they were provided and that procurement of all
contracts was carried out in accordance with agreed guidelines. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Government, ESF, and SIF would
comply with these requirements (para. 8.02 (f), (g)).
5.21     SIF would submit to IDA monthly summaries of subprojects in its
portfolio, showing clearly those to be included in SOEs for financing, by
IDA or by any cofinanciers, their status of execution, and key indicators.
Reports will also include all other subprojects financed by SIF, showing
source of financing for each.   Quarterly progress reports would be
submitted to IDA on the first day of each April, July, October, and
January, until the project is completed (the first such report to be
submitted by July 1, 1990). These reports would review, among other
things, the sources of funds (including cofinancing) for ESF and SIF,
respectively, and application of funds. In addition, reviews of
procurement under subcontracts would be carried out on a quarterly basis,
and reports summarizing their findings would be submitted to IDA. SIF
would prepare a final report on implementation experience and the outcome
of the first four years of the SIF program within six months of the
Closing Date of the project. The Government's agreement to these
requirements was confirmed at negotiations (para. 8.02 (h)).
VI. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENTS AND PROCUREMENT
Project Costs
6.01     The project would be carried out over four years; it is defined to
include the first two years of SIF financing commitments (1990 through
1991), the first four years of SIF administrative expenses (1990 through
19-93), and the costs of the ESP training program. Costs for SIF
subprojects are based on SIF's commitment targets for its first two years
(US$70 million), plus the average contribution of RAs and beneficiary
communities, estimated on the basis of ESF experience. Foreign costs
represent about 12 percent of the total. Since specific subprojects are
still to be identified, no contingencies have been calculated; any increase
in the expected average subproject cost (US$70,000) will be reflected as a
reduction in the number of subprojects executed. A summary of project
costs is shown in Table 6.1. (Annex IX contains a detailed cost table).



- 25 -
Table 6.1: SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign    Total
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange    Cost
------ USS 4ilon-w--
SIF Subprojects
Health                         51.2    6.7   67.9        12        6o
Education                      26.8    2.0   28.8         7        s0
Institutional Support to RAs    0.6    0.0    0.6         0         1
Subtotal                   78.6    8.7   87.3       1O        91
SIF Institutional Development
Administration                  4.8    0.2    6.0         4         5
Equipment, vehicles, maintenance   0.6    1.8    2.4     76         8
Technical Assistance            0.4    0.3    0.7        40         1
Subtotal                    5.8    2.3    8.1       28         9
ESF Program                         0.0    0.2    0.2        0         0
Total Costs                    84.4   11.2   96.6        12       100
I/ Exclusive of taxes and duties, which are not applicable.
Financing Plan
6.02      The proposed IDA credit of US$20 million equivalent would
represent about 20.9 percent of total project costs. An additional
US$5.3 million of IDA financing would be provided under the proposed IHDP;
total IDA financing under both projects would represent about 26.4 percent
of project costs. Counterpart requirements would be met by the Government
and RAs. Beneficiary communities would provide contributions of labor or
materials. Cofinancing from various donors in the amount of
US$43.6 million would complete the financing plan. The financing plan is
presented in Table 6.2 (see also Annex X). The Government's agreement to
provide the necessary counterpart funds was confirmed at negotiations
(para. 8.02 (i)).
Table 6.2: FINANCING PLAN
USS Millions
IDA                                20.0
IDA/Health */                       6.3
RAs                                 6.9
Beneficiary Communities            10.2
Government                          9.6
Cofinancing                        43.6
Total                              96.6
a/ Amount to be channeled through SIF for health
investments under the Integrated Health Development
Project (IHDP).



- 26 -
6.03     The above financing plan includes partial financing by IDA and
other external sources of incremental recurrent costs (salaries). This is
necessitated by the need to pay fixed-term salaries above the civil service
scale to attract and retain appropriately qualified and experienced
personnel to administer the program. The Government is unable to finance
salaries above the civil service scale for two reasons. One is the general
constraint on counterpart funds owing to the need for fiscal austerity.
Secondly, Bolivian law precludes bc .h the Government from paying any
salaries above the civil service scale, and public employees from receiving
incremental salaries or benefits from non-Governmental sources. Thus, to
assure SIF's ability to attract appropriately qualified and experienced
personnel, they are to be hired under fixed-term contracts outside the
civil service system and their salaries paid from external sources.
(Cofinanciers are also expected to contribute proportional amounts to help
finance incremental operating costs). The need to rationalize the civil
service salary scale to improve the quality of all key public sector
personnel is one of the central issues being addressed under the EMSO
project (para. 3.34 (a)). Under that project, a fund has been set up to
finance key personnel from external sources in the short term. A long-tenm
goal is to restructure the civil service salary scale and to gradually
return responsibility for its financing to the Government. However,
achievement of this goal is not expected during the lifetime of the
project. IDA'S financing of such costs (about 30 percent) would be made on
a declining basis, as cofinanciers' financing becomes effective, and would
reach zero in the last semester of project execution.
Cofinancing Arrangements
6.04     The financing plan presented in Table 6.2 is contingent on final
commitments by cofinanciers. While SIF's target for annual subproject
financing commitments is US$40 million (US$30 million for the first year),
based on estimated absorptive capacity in the health and education sectors,
the actual size of its program would depend on the amount of financing
available. It would be a condition of effectiveness that agreements for
external financing in amounts not less than US$10 million in aggregate and
commitments for an additional US$15 million had been obtained or other
arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, had been made to obtain such cofinancing
(para. 8.02 (e)). Thus, at effectiveness, financing would be secured for
80 percent of the total project costs (100 percent of SIF's planned
commitment requirements for subprojects during the first year).
Commitments for the remaining US$18.6 million are expected to be obtained
during the first 12 months of project execution. During negotiations, it
was agreed that the failure of financing agreements in an aggregate amount
of not less than US$10 million to become effective by September 30, 1990
and of financing agreements in an aggregate amount of not less than
US$25 million to become effective by March 31, 1991, would constitute an
event of default, unless the Government and SIF had made alternative
arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, to secure adequate financing for SIF's
programmed commitments for subprojects (para. 8.05). To assure that the
proportions of financing participation remain as shown in Table 6.2, SIF's
programming of commitments for subproject financing would be reviewed
jointly by SIF and IDA on a yearly basis, and adjustments would be made as
necessary to reflect availability of financing. Commitments under the IDA
credit would be distributed throughout the period from effectiveness to
December 31, 1991. A memorandum of understanding would be signed by IDA
with each cofinancing agency specifying, inter alia, items to be financed,



- 27 -
administrative responsibilities of IDA with respect to the financing (if
any), and procedures for supervision and exchange of information.
Disbursements
6.05     The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed over a period of four
years, to be completed by June 30, 1994 (Closing Date). Subproject
activities supported by the Credit are expected to be completed by December
31, 1993. Though substantially shorter than the profile for LAC projects
in the social sectors, the expected disbursement period is consistent with
profiles for credit projects, which the proposed project resembles more
closely, and reflects experience under the two credits in support of ESF.
6.06     Disbursements will be made against the following categories of
expenditure: (a) SIF subprojects: 90 percent of disbursements by SIF
against eligible subprojects (para. 4.05) approved on or before December
31, 1991 according to SIF's project selection and evaluation procedures;
(b) Institutional development: (i) 100 percent of the cost of consultants'
services; (ii) 100 percent of the cost of salaries, travel, and training
for SIF staff through December 31, 1992 (the salaries and travel expenses
of the Executive Director and support staff are not financed by IDA); and
(iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for equipment, supplies, and maintenance; and (c) ESF training
program: 100 percent of foreign expenditures for the ESF training program.
Retroactive financing of no more than SDR 15.1 million (US$2.0 million
equivalent) would be permitted against approved expenditures incurred after
January 1, 1990 (para. 8.02 (j)). (Annex XI contains the estimated
disbursement schedule).
6.07     Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications for goods
and services with a contract value of US$100,000 or more will be supported
by full documentation. Contracts of less than US$100,000, disbursements
against expenses not undertaken by contract, and all disbursements under
subprojects will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs),
for which supporting documents would be maintained by ESF and SIF and would
be made available for review by IDA staff. A Special Account in US dollars
would be opened in the Central Bank of Bolivia, with an initial deposit of
US$2.0 million, corresponding to about four months of expected
disbursements. The Government's agreement to the above arrangements for
disbursements was confirmed at negotiations (para. 8.02 (k)).
Procurement
6.08     For subprojects financed under the project, RAs would be
responsible for procurement and would follow IDA's guidelines for
procurement. Prior to signing the subproject contract, SIP would assure
that procurement procedures followed were in compliance with agreed
guidelines. Infrastructure subprojects are expected to total about
US$48 million equivalent and to average about US$90,000, with the biggest
single project costing no more than US$500,000. For civil works contracts
valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate of
US$6,000,000 equivalent, the RA would carry out local shopping, and would
provide SIF with all relevant documentation for review, indicating its
choice among the offers presented. SIF would compare offers against its
data base of reference prices, and, in the event that all offers exceeded
the reference prices, the RA would be advised to negotiate with the firm
offering the lowest cost. If negotiations failed to bring the final cost



- 28 -
down to the reference level, SIF would assess the need to revise its
reference unit prices. For works of more than US$100,000, local
competitive bidding (LCB) would be carried out. While SIF's regulatory
decree limits subproject size to a maximum of US$500,000, when practicable,
civil works contracts would be combined in packages and let through ICB.
6.09     While the limit of US$100,000 for local shopping is unusually
high, several factors justify it in this case. First, the bidding process
for all public contracts in Bolivia is currently conducted by one or more
of the agents contracted by the Bolivian Government (currently Crown Agents
and UNDP). SIF would sign a contract with the agents specifying the fees,
terms, and conditions for LCB under the proposed project. On a preliminary
basis, the agents have proposed a differential fee scale, by which 4
percent would be charged for projects over US$100,000, and 6 percent to 8
percent for projects less than US$100,000. It is estimated, based on SIF's
commitment targets and expected distribution of subprojects by size, that
this price differential would result in added costs of about
US$700,000-US$800,000. This would mean that 10-25 fewer average-sized
subprojects could be funded with the same level of financing. Second, the
scale of most subprojects will be quite small, demanding little, if any,
heavy equipment. Thus, many small firms would have the capacity to carry
out the works; ESF had extensive experience with such firms, and found that
they were equally, or even more reliable than many large firms, and were
willing to work at smaller profit margins than any of the larger companies,
helping to keep costs down. Finally, ESF's use of its list of reference
prices in negotiating with contractors proved an effective device in
minimizing costs with contractors and suppliers of all sizes. Unit costs
under its subprojects were below the average for the industry during the
period, and far below the average for construction guild member firms.
6.10     As with local shopping, SIF's list of reference prices would be
utilized in evaluating bids. Procedures followed for LCB would permit
participation by foreign bidders; however, owing to the widely dispersed
and remote location of subprojects and to the fact that SIF reference
prices are generally the lowest possible, it is most likely that all civil
works contracts will be awarded to local firms. Based on the expected
distribution of subprojects by size, about 70 percent of the total value of
civil works contracts would be contracted through LCB, with the remainder
contracted by local shopping.
6.11     To the extent feasible, equipment, textbooks, furniture, and
supplies to be purchased under subprojects would be combined for the
purpose of procurement in packages of US$100,000 or more, and contracts for
their purchase would be awarded on the basis of ICB. Where ICB procedures
are used, goods manufactured locally would be given a preference margin of
15 percent. Goods estimated to cost US$100,000 or less, but more than
US$20,000, would be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures satisfactory to
IDA. Goods estimated to cost US$20,000 or less up to an aggregate of
US$600,000 equivalent, would be procured by RAs according to local shopping
procedures, with offers from at least three eligible suppliers. Minor
computer equipment with an aggregate value of not more than US$120,000
equivalent for replacement and upgrading of SIF's existing microcomputer
equipment (which it will receive from ESF) would also be purchased through
local shopping procedures.



- 29 -
6.12     Computer equipment and related hardware with aggregate value of
not more than US$150,000 equivalent, for the expansion and linkage of SIF's
existing system, would be purchased through direct contracting. Direct
contracting is necessary in this case because the compatibility
requirements of the existing system necessitate the purchase of equipment
(and its servicing) that is proprietary and available through only one
source. IDA has reviewed and found satisfactory the technical
specifications of both the existing system and the proposed expansion and
linkage. Moreover, the existing system was acquired through LCB and
financed under the previous IDA credits to ESF.
6.13     Consultants required for the project would be hired in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
6.14     The following would be sent to IDA for prior review:  (a) bidding
documents for all contracts to be procured under LCB procedures; (b) the
first four contracts to be procured under local shopping procedures;
(c) all contracts exceeding US$100,000; (d) proposed procurement
arrangements for projects for which the size of the project, goals of
applying appropriate technology under subprojects (i.e. avoidance of
unnecessary capital intensity), or other circumstances may warrant division
of a project into two or more contracts; and (e) the contracts for purchase
of computer equipment under contracts awarded through local shopping or
direct contracting procedures (paras. 6.11-6.12). Other contracts and bid
evaluations would be subject to random ex post review by IDA staff (para.
5.14). The Government's and SIF's agreement on the above procedures for
procurement under the project was confirmed at negotiations
(para. 8.02 (l)-(n)).
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01     The project's main benefit would be to assure the transition from
ESF's emergency management approach to social assistance and investment to
one fully integrated into the public investment program and consistent with
medium-term adjustment and sector policies, while retaining the
efficiencies of operations achieved by ESF. Additional benefits would
include: (a) strengthened capacity of entities providing health and
education services to target assistance to the neediest groups and to
design projects responsive to the groups' priority needs; (b) improved
coordination among entities working in the social sectors, including the
Government ministries, SIF itself, NGOs, local governments, and community
groups; (c) improved access to urgently needed health and education
facilities and services, thereby enhancing the population's potential for
improved health and productivity; and (d) a focal point to mobilize
additional external resources for the social sectors, building on the
successful experience of previous IDA credits.
7.02     Poverty Impact.  All of the benefits of the proposed project would
be aimed at improving the health and education status of Bolivia's poor.
Improved mechanisms would be introduced to assure that an increasing
proportion of the poorest groups are included among the beneficiaries



- 30 -
(paras. 5.05-5.08 and Annex VII). The services to be extended under the
project would provide beneficiary communities with the basic conditions
essential to emerge from poverty.
7.03     Environmental Impact.  Pollution of the environment is one of the
most pressing problems facing Bolivia, particularly in its urban areas.
The adverse impact of inadequate waste disposal and sanitation systems on
environmental quality and public health is demonstrated by the
preponderance of diseases attributable to unsanitary conditions
(paras. 3.01-3.02). The proposed project would contribute to alleviating
this problem through provision of financing for basic water and sanitation
systems. In addition, all subprojects involving construction or remodeling
would provide for approprilte waste disposal according to guidelines
satisfactory to IDA; all designs for health posts would include
incinerators for safe disposal of contaminated medical wastes. SIF would
assure that all aspects of subproject design (including their location) and
execution would adhere to environmentally sound principles.  Where
applicable, special provisions would be included in the multilateral
agreements signed by SIF, the RA, and the contractor to ensure adherence to
appropriate guidelines.
7.04     Women in Development.  In recognition of the essential role of
women in realizing Bolivia's medium-term goals, the proposed project would
support the development of women's potential (both directly productive and
nurturant) through both health interventions specificallv directed at
improving women's health conditions (such as nutrition programs for infants
and lactating mothers and health/hygiene training programs), construction
of day care centers to assist low-income working mothers, and training
programs designed to improve literacy rates and enhance productive skills.
Under ESF, over half of the training programs were directed toward women.
Risks
7.05     The risks affecting the project are mainly institutional, since
achievement of project objectives will require that: (a) SIF be provided
with sufficient autonomy and key staff to carry out its mandate; and
(b) close coordination among key institutions (e.g., between SIF and the
ministries) be established. There is also a risk that financial
constraints may prevent continued operation of subprojects beyond the
period of SIP financing. These risks are being managed through: (a) the
Government's commitment to maintain SIF with the mandate to satisfy basic
needs in health and education, with key staff whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to IDA; (b) coordination agreements,
satisfactory to IDA, between SIF and the corresponding ministries
specifying, inter alia, that SIF's annual program would be reviewed and
incorporated into the public expenditure program, and that, where operating
costs of a subproject would be covered by the corresponding ministry, the
ministry's prior approval of the subproject would be sought; and
(c) appraisal criteria providing that approval of all subprojects will be
contingent upon presentation of a satisfactory plan for continuation of
operations beyond the investment period and demonstration that the costs
have been included in the budget of the responsible entity. Coordination
with sector strategies would be enhanced through participation of the Under
Secretary of Planning for Social Policies in SIF's Administrative Council



- 31 -
and participation of SIF's Executive Director in the National Council for
Social Policy. Improved coordination would also be pursued under the IHDP
and EMSO projects, as well as through the proposed project.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached at Negotiations
8.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached on:
(a) The content of the draft manuals for promotion, appraisal,
and supervision of subprojects, and the manuals for
administration and legal affairs (para. 5.08); and
(b)  an implementation program specifying, inter alia, the
timetables for: (i) cArrying out key activities under the ESP
training program; (ii) phasing out ESF activities and closing
that institution; (iii) activities to be carried out with
technical assistance; (iv) establishment of baseline
indicators for long-term monitoring (paras. 5.03, 5.17).
8.02     During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  The Government would maintain SIF as an institution with
mandate, scope of operations, structure, operating
procedures, and staffing as agreed with IDA (para. 5.02);
(b) ESF operations would be phased out according to an agreed
timetable and closed no later than March 31, 1990, and ESF
would be terminated by no later than September 30. 1991. ESP
would carry out a series of seminars for interested public
agencies to train them in the use of ESF's information
systems for subproject appraisal and supervision according to
an implementation program acceptable to IDA (para. 5.03);
(c) The agreed criteria for selection of subprojects and the
procedures for poverty targeting (contained in the Promotion
Manual) and subproject appraisal (contained in the Evaluation
Manual), would be applied to all subprojects considered for
SIF financing (paras. 5.08, 5.09);
(d) SIF would send to IDA for its prior approval: (i) the first
10 subprojects in health and education, respectively;
(ii) the first two subprojects for institutional support for
RAs; (iii) any subproject costing more than US$250,000;
(iv) any subproject to be divided into 2 or more contracts;
(v) any subproject that would include activities or services
not specified in the Evaluation Manual; and (vi) final terms
of reference for all technical assistance tasks prior to
selection of consultants (para. 5.11).



- 32 -
(e) Supervision would be carried out for all subprojects in
accordance with the Supervision Manual, and all reports of
such supervision would be made available on a regular basis
to IDA; the TCU would carry out its duties as specified in
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA and make available all
of its reports to IDA as requested (para. 5.18).
(f) ESF would maintain its accounts, have them audited, and
report to IDA as agreed under Credit 1882-BE and submit a
final audit report to IDA by July 31, 1991 (para. 5.20);
(g) SIF would: (i) maintain accounts disaggregated by type of
subproject, technical as3istance activity, or administrative
cost category, and by source of financing (Government, IDA
and other donors, by name); (ii) have its accounts, the
Special Account, and all disbursements made against SOEs
audited annually in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines;
(iii) submit audit reports to IDA by April 30 of each year
(para. 5.20);
(h)  SIF would submit to IDA: (i) monthly summaries of all
subprojects approved by the CA, indicating source (or
potential source) of financing, status of processing or
execution, and key monitoring indicators; (ii) quarterly
progress reports, beginning July 1, 1990, reviewing sources
and uses of funds; and highlighting problems identified by
the TCU or Supervision Department; (iii) quarterly reviews of
Procurement under subcontracts; (iv) reports presenting the
results of annual performance reviews; and (v) a final report
on implementation experience and the outcome of the first
three years of the SIF program. (para. 5.21);
(i) The Government would provide the necessary counterpart funds
as reflected in the financing plan in Table 6.2 (para. 6.02);
(j) Retroactive financing of no more than SDR 1,510,000
(US$2.0 million equivalent) would be permitted against
approved expenditures incurred after January 1, 1990
(para. 6.06);
(k) SIF would: (i) submit full documentation for withdrawal
applications against expenditures with a contract value of
US$100,000; (ii) retain for IDA review on request full
documentation for all contracts under US$100,000, all
disbursements not undertaken by contract, and all
disbursements under subprojects, for which withdrawal
requests would be made on the basis of SOEs; (iii) utilize
funds from any available cofinancing prior to withdrawing
proceeds from the proposed credit; and (iv) establish and
maintain a Special Account of no more than US$2.0 million in
the Central Bank of Bolivia (para. 6.07);



- 33 -
(1) SIF would ensure that RAs adhere to IDA guidelines for
procurement. Forms of procurement to be followed are:
(i) civil works less than US$100,000: local shopping; civil
works more than JS$100,000: LCB (maximum contract size would
be US$500,000), (ii) goods contracts less than US$20,000:
local shopping; goods contracts over US$20,000 but less than
US$100,000: LCB; goods contracts over US$100,000: ICB
(paras. 6.08-6.12);
(m)  SIF would select consultants for technical assistance under
the project in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants (para. 6.13); and
(n) SIF would send to IDA for prior review: (a) bidding documents
for all contracts to be procured under LCB procedures;
(b) the first four contracts to be procured under local
shopping procedures; (c) all contracts exceeding US$100,000;
(d) proposed pro^urement arrangements for projects for which
the size of the project, goals of applying appropriate
technology under subprojects (i.e. avoidance of unnecessary
capital intensity), or other circumstances may warrant
division of a project into two or more contracts; and (e) the
contracts for purchase of computer equipment and software
procured under local shopping or direct contracting
procedures (para. 6.14).
8.03     During negotiations, the following conditions of credit
effectiveness were agreed:
(a)  that the Government furnish to IDA satisfactory evidence that
a subsidiary contractual arrangement, satisfactory to IDA had
been duly signed and ratified by the Borrower and SIF
(para. 5.01);
(b) that the Government furnish to IDA satisfactory evidence that
a Regulatory Decree incorporating SIF's by-laws and
specifying its organizational structure and functions and its
operational guidelines, all satisfactory to IDA, had been
duly issued (para. 5.02);
(c) that the Government furnish to IDA satisfactory evidence that
the Promotion and Evaluation Manuals had been approved by
SIF's CA in a form satisfactory to IDA (paras. 5.08-5.09);
(d) that the Government furnish to IDA satisfactory evidence that
the agreements regarding procedures and mechanisms for
coordination had been duly signed by SIF and the MPSSP and
MEC, respectively (para. 5.13); and
(e) the Government and SIF had entered into financing agreements,
in amounts not less than US$10.0 million in aggregate and
that additional commitments, satisfactory to IDA, had been
received for at least US$15 million, or that alternative
arrangements, satisfactory to IDA had been made by the
Government and SIF to cover the financing needs of the
project.(para. 6.04).



_ 34 -
8.04     During negotiations, the following conditions of disbursement were
agreed:
(a) for the ESF training program that a subsidiary contractual
arrangement, satisfactory to IDA, had been duly signed and
ratified by the Borrower and ESF and a legal opinion to that
effect had been furnished to IDA, and that the course
outlines, teaching materials, budgets, and criteria for
selection of agencies had been approved by IDA (para. 5.01);
and
(b)  for subprojects for water supply, basic sanitation, nutrition
development and training programs, institutional support for
RAs, and adult literacy and training programs, that improved
methodologies for appraisal of subprojects had been prepared
in a manner satisfactory to IDA and incorporated into the
Evaluation Manual; for subprojects for institutional support
for RAs, that institutional appraisal criteria satisfactory
to IDA had been incorporated into the Evaluation Manual
(para. 5.10).
8.05     During negotiations, it was agreed that the failure of financing
agreements in an aggregate amount of not less than US$10 million to become
effective by September 30, 1990 and of financing agreements in an aggregate
amount of not less than US$25 million to become effective by March 31,
1991, would constitute an event of default, unless the Government and SIF
had made alternative arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, to secure adequate
financing for SIP's programmed commitments for subprojects (para. 6.04).
Recommendation
8.06     Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
SDR 15.1 million (US$20 million equivalent) to the Republic of Bolivia.



- 35 -                               A    , -
Page 1 of 7
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Public SpendinR in Health and Education, 1980-88
A. Public Spending in Health
1.       Roughly 20S of the population is estimated to receive health
services from private for-profit institutions (1Z) or non-profit
organizations (NGOs) (20X). The remaining 802 of the population is covered
either by publicly provided health services or traditional practitioners.
Public funding for health is provided through MPSSP, which comprises two
service networks with separate financing; the Sub-secretariat of Public
Health (SSP) and Social Security (SPS). The SSP is financed from the TGN,
cost recovery and international funding, while SPS is furded from an
employer contribution of 102 of the employed participants and 52 of the
pension of retired participants. A third source of funding was introduced
with the advent of ESF which, as October 1989, had provided
US$23.5 million. The amounts channeled through each of these streams is
shown in Table 1 together with amounts received by the Government in food
aid, a small share of which are distributed in food supplementation
programs, directly linked to MPSSP or the provision of health services.
Table 1: PUBLIC FUNDING OF THE HEALTH SECTOR
US8 Millions of 1987
TON Transfers
U8 Pension*
MPSSP, /     MPSSP ki ESF    Food Aid
1990           37.1         3a.6                 23.9
1961           23.2          22.3                12.1
1982           21.0          29.3                21.8
1983           19.7          16.0                48.1
1984           17.6          51.6                82.4
1985           19.0          23.4                43.8
1986           11.7          10.7                83.8
1987           16.9          n.a.      .3
19@8           20.6          n.s.    4.1
1989 g/        24.2
Source: UDAPE, Schulthess, ESF, World Bonk
*/ Executed.
f Spending on the provision of hoalth services only; pensions aro
excluded.
S/ Budgeted for NPSSP; preliminary for ESF.



- 36 -                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of ?
2.       SSP spending is supported by three sources: the Treasury (TGN),
cost recovery, and international financing (Table 2). The relative shares
of these have changed since 1984, with TGN shrinking from 92Z of SSP
financing to 50Z. Cost recovery now accounts for 22Z of funding compared
to 6Z in 1984, and external aid has risen from 2Z to 28Z in 1984-88.
Table 3 shows the SSP expenditures by category. Different sources of
funding are earmarked for specific categories: TGN funds about 80Z of
.salaries; medicines and "other' cost are largely founded from cost
recovery; and international funds provide for most of the investment.
Funding for maintenance of new infrastructure is negligible. While figures
show that SSP is spending less on salaries than in 1984, the sharp increase
in 'other' expenditure partly reflects payments to health workers not on
the official payroll.
Table 2: SHARES OF SSP FUNDING BY SOURCE
(e)
Source       1984   1986   1986   1987   1988
TON          92.2   62.2   48.7   60.2   60.1
Cost Recovery   6.6   17.2   30.2   25.4   22.1
International
Financing    2.2   20.6   21.1   14.4   27.8
TOTAL    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Source: Mission Estimates
Table 8: SSP EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY
(US8 Millions of 1987)
Category         1984    1986    1986    1987   1988
Salari"         25.81   12.60    7.88   18.01   16.81
Food             1.98    1.25    1.77    1.85    7.06
Medicines        0.89    1.21    1.42    2.91    4.67
Other            1.61    2.81    6.88    8.06   16.01
Total Recurrent    29.47    17.77   17.95   28.82   48.05
lnvetment           0.08    2.10    0.67    o.00    8.44
Total        29.59   19.87   18.62   28.82   48.49
Source: Mission Estimates
3.       Social Security coverage in health in 1986 was 21.4Z of the
population, having declined from 26.22 in 1982, due mainly to the decline
in employment in covered sectors as a result of the economic crisis. SPS
expenditures have been unstable during 1978-1985, especially for health, as
demonstrated in Table 4.



37                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
Tablo 4: PERCENT SHARE SOCIAL SECURITY EXPENDITURES IN GDP
Yoer           Total        Health Care
1978            2.9             1.6
1979            8.5             2.0
1980            2.8             1.4
1981            2.7             1.2
1982            2.0              1.1
1988            1.9             0.6
1984            8.5             2.0
1986            1.9             1.0
,986            1.7             0.7
Source: Central Bank of Bolivio and SPS.
4.        A breakdown of total financing by ESF on health investments and
programs is shown in Table 5. Table 6 shows SIF's estimate of spending by
category.
Table 5: ESF HEALTH PROGRAMS
(as October 1989)
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__------------
Annual Average
Activity                       No of          Approved      Disburoed        Disbursed
Projocts         Asount        Amount          197-1989
-----------USS Million----------
Primary Health Care Prog.       81               2.4           1.6              0.5
Drinking Water a               282              20.2          15.2              6.1
Sewerage System
Infrastructure, HnaIth         196               8.7           6.6              2.2
Nutrition                      101               6.1           8.8              1.1
Institutional Support            2               0.1           0.1              -
Other                            6               0.1           0.1
TOTAL                          616              87.8          26.7              8.9
Sources ESF
Table 6; SIF HEALTH PROGRAM
US$ Million
Category                                    Est. Av-rage
Program     Annual Disburaoemnta
1990-93           1990-92
________________________________________--_______________________
1. Nutrition                    14.0                 4.7
Child Care Conters               5.6                 1.9
School Moel Programs
and ChtId Nutrition Centers     7.0                 2.8
Nutrition Doev./Training         1.4                 0.6
2. Primary Health Care          16.4                 5.5
Basic Health Care               15.0                 5.0
Immunization Campaigns           1.4                 0.6
8. Sanitation                   16.4                 6.5
Water Supply                     6.6                 2.2
Basic Sanitation                 9.8                 8.8
Total                    46.8                16.7



- 38 -                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
B. Public Spending in Education
5.        There are four sources of funding for educationt the National
Treasury, local governments, ESF and bilateral and multilateral agencies.
Recurrent costs are financed by the National Treasury (TGN) through
transfers to the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) (Table 1) and the
Ministry's decentralized institutions (CONES, SENET and SENALEP), and by
local governments. During 1987 and 1988, funding from local governments
accounted for 3% and 5% of public funding to education and school tuitions
provided for about 60X of local government resources. Since 1987, public
investment on education has been mainly channeled through ESP. Bilateral
and multilateral agencies have also supported investments by a number of
NGOs; however, data are not available on the level of this investment.
Table 1: UEC EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION
(Thousands of 1980 Bolivianoa)
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985    1986   1987  1988
Total MEC    6020   8698   8789   8730   U841   8478    2388   2944  sll
X of TON     21.3   19.7   28.8   27.7    25   19.9   17.5   18.6  22.9
X of GDP      4.1    2.9    8.2    8.4    8.2    8.8      2.8    2.6   2.6
6.        Salaries are by far the most important item in MEC's budget
(Table 2).  Over 98 percent of public resources are used to finance
salaries, including salaries paid to administrative personnel as well as
teachers. The estimates of the number of teachers working in Bolivia are
very different depending on whether the source is MEC, the Ministry of
Finance, or the National Institute of Statistics (INE). In 1988, the
Ministry of Finance estimated that there were 23% more teachers on the
payroll than MEC. Since the Ministry of Finance pays teachers' salaries
(and then charges MEC), these "ghost" teachers are receiving checks each
month, even though MEC cannot account for them.   MEC plans to solve this
problem through the implementation of a computerized system. MEC estimates
it could save about 23 percent of the current teacher salaries. This will
be important in permitting the budgeting of staff for new schools.
Table 2: MEC EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY
(Percent of total)
Category 1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990 S/
_                     ~~~~~~~H
Salaries 99.7   99.1   98.2   98.8   97.7   97.6   98.4
Services  0.1    0.6    1.3    0.9    1.0    1.1    0.7
Materials 0.1    0.1    0.2    0.1    0.8    0.7    0.4
Other    0.1    0.4    0.2    0.2    0.5    0.7    0.4
Total   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
!/ Budget plan



- 39 -                            ANNEX I
Page 5 of 7
7.       The largest percentage of MEC's budget is allocated to primary
education (73 percent). followed by secondary education (13 percent) (Table
3). These figures, however, do not take into account Universities which
are financed through a transfer amounting to 52 of gross tax revenues. The
transfers were 1lo of total TGN spending on education in 1981, growing to
20Z in 1988.
Table 8: MEC EXPENDITURES BY LEVEL
(percent of total)
Lev-l          1984   1985   1986   19t7   193   low 2/
Administration    6.4   8.9   6.7   4.0   7.7   3.4
Primary        71.3  74.5  73.6  74.8  72.7  76.7
Secondary      12.6  18.1   18.2   18.6   18.1   18.9
T eher Schools  8.1   3.6   8.6   8.6   8.0   8.O
Othor           4.3   4.9   8.4   8.6   8.5   4.6
Totel             11    1 1. .e    IO11  1.6  11.1O 1ue.e
2/ Budget plan
S.       The National Council of School Construction (CONES), is
responsible for public investment in prir ry and secondary education
focussing mainly on urban areas. Since pril 1987, CONES has had no budget
to carry out investments, but it contir 3s to formulate investment plans.
Most school construction in rural arer has been financed by NEC under
special projects, and by local and regional governmental authorities.
Since the creation of the ESF, CONES has concentrated on planning and
project proposal preparation, and ESF has become the leading Government
organization investing in education.   As of October 1989, ESF had
implemented 637 education projects (mostly infrastructure), disbursing
almost nineteen million dollars averaging about US$6 million per year
(Table 4). In comparison, total MEC investment (including CONES) was about
$1 million in 1987 and only $0.1 million in 1988. Table 5 shows a
breakdown of ESF investments by Department in 1987-88, compared with those
of local and regional governments.
Table 4: ESF EDUCATION PROJECTS
(As of October 1989)
Annual Average
Activity               No of Projectu  Approved Amount  Disbursed Amount  Disbursed
1987-1989
--------- ---us MilI)on-
Integrated Education          29           6.9             6.6          8.2
Program
Desks                         51           2.9              2.1         e.7
Textbooko                     2            0.4             0.4          6.1
Cultural Projects            42            1.6              1.1         6.4
School Construction          465          15.6             12.2         4.1
Other Infrastructure          66           2.9              2.4         e.6
Institutional Support         1            6.1             e.6          6.6
Total                        687          24.6             186.         6.8
Source: ESi



ANNEX I
- 40 -                       Page 6 of 7
Table 5:  REGIONAL INVESTMENT IN EDUCATION BY
DEPARTMENTS AND FINANCING INSTITUTION
(Thousand of Boliviano.)
Municipal                 Municipal
Department RDCe  Govornments  ESF    RDC.  Governments   ESF
 ----  98-1---                      - - ____
Chuquloaca  87      e       148      12       {        1,176
Cochabamba  140     a       143     as        0        2,688
Santa Cruz    0    47       175     106      51        1,691
La Paz      0       e       629       0       0        4,187
Potosi      0       0       108       0       0        1,812
TariJa     200      0       184     181       a         067
Oruro       O       0       77        0       0         628
Beni        6       O        O        0       0        1,762
Pando       0       0        0        0       0           0
Total      877     47    1,814      828      S1       14,796
Source: EMSO study, Table 13
9.       Other entities, such as NGOs, private schools, RDCs and Municipal
Governments participate in the implementation of education programs. Some
of them -- especially NGOs -- ac ount for a large share of student
enrollment,1 and contribute considerable investment in the sector.
However, there is no information on the extent of their contribution.
Table 5 shows a breakdown by department of investments in education by ESF,
the RDCs, and municipal governments.
Investment Priorities
10.      The Government's priority programs for the next four years are
extension of access to basic education, the continuation of school
nutrition programs, adult literacy programs, improvement of teacher
training programs and the construction of multi-purpose centers. In terms
of infrastructure, the Ministry has given priority to primary education,
emphasizing the maintenance of existing infrastructure, and establishing
minimal norms for the annual maintenance of school buildings. CONES plans
to target marginal urban areas with deficient educational services, as well
as medium-sized urban centers, regions targeted for colonization, and the
frontiers.
1/ In 1987, Fe y Alegria, operated 79 schools with a total of 76,095
students and 2,273 teachers.



- 41 -                            ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
11.      CONES' 1990 Investment Plan is presented in Table 6.  Total
requirements are estimated at $16.4 million, of which about 50Z would be
for construction of new classrooms, with an additional 21Z for equipment
and 7Z for rehabilitation of existing structures. The MEC plans to request
as much financing as possible for these investments to be channeled through
SIF.
Table 6: CONES 1990 INVESTMENT PLAN
USS Million
Item               Amount    X of Total
Construction (classrooms)8.2    50
Maintenance          1.0         6
Remodeling           1.1         7
Equipment            8.4        21
Repairs              0.7         4
Construction (multi-   2.0       12
purpose centers)
Total               16.4        100
Source: CONES, 'Politics. do Editicaciones
Escolares, Oection: 1989-1998.'
SIF Education Financing
12.      In accordance with the new Government's education mandate, SIF
education programs will concentrate on basic education and adult practical
training and literacy programs, and will be targeted to the neediest
communities (rural areas and peripheral urban areas). During the next
three years, SIF projects will finance about US$5.5 million per year in
school construction and repair, or about 62Z of CONES' plans (Table 7).
Table 7: SIF EDUCATION FINANCING
USS MillIons
Category                    Program   Est. Average
1990-92   Annual Disb.
1990-92
Classroom construction and   18.4        65.
repair
Equipment and desks           1.6         0.6
Books                         0.6         0.2
Libraries                     0.9         0.8
Training programs             2.3         0.8
Culture                       1.1         0.4
Total                        22.8         7.7
R



- 42 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Key Features of SIF Compared With ESF
Social Investment              Emergency
Fund                    Social Fund
Objectives             To improve the health      To alleviate the short-term
and education status of   social cost of economic
the population through    adjustment through
financial support for      financial support for
decentralized projects    decentralized projects
in health and education,  aimed at employment
consistent with and        generation or social
integrated into sectoral  services, and to encourage
policies and strategies   support for GOB's economic
as defined by MPSSP and   adjustment program.
MEC.
Time Frame             No time limit; continued  Created as temporary
operation contingent on   agency; due to close
availability of external  March 31, 1991.
resources and satisfac-
tory performance in
early years. However,
SIF would eventually be
phased out as the sec-
toral agencies acquire
the necessary project
planning, execution and
evaluation capability.
Program Size           Expected annual program   $180 million for total life
of $40 million; ultimate  of ESF; actual size
size will be a function   determined by availability
of absorptive capacity    of external resources.
of the social sectors.
Eligible Sub-          Social Infrastructure      Economic Infrastructure
Projects               (health, education,        (roads, irrigation),
water, sanitation, cul-   Productive Programs
ture) Social Assistance.  (credit), Social
Infrastructure (health,
education, water,
sanitation, housing,
culture) Social Assistance
(nutrition, training).



- 43 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Key Features of SIF Compared With ESF
Social Investment              Emergency
Fund                    Social Fund
Eligible Requesting   All legal entities:         All legal entities:
Agencies               central public agencies,  central public agencies,
decentralized public       decentralized public
agencies, NGOs, grass-    agencies, NGOs, grass-roots
roots organizations.       organizations.
Organizational         Dependent on Presidency;  Dependent on Presidency;
Structure              directed by appointed      directed by appointed
Administrative Council;   Administrative Council;
comprised of departments  comprised of departments of
of Health, Education,      Promotion, Evaluation,
Information, Super-        Supervision, Fund-raising,
vision, Fund-raising,      Administration, and Legal
Administration, and        Affairs.
Legal Affairs.
Coordination           Executive Director a       Participates in the
member of the National    National Council on Social
Council on Social          Policy.
Policy; Sub-secretary of
Planning for Social
Policy a member of CA;
MPSSP and MEC approve
SIF's guidelines with
respect to sector norms;
SIF meets periodically
with MPSSP and MEC to
review progress in
implementation of
strategies and adjust as
necessary.
Primary indicators    Cost per beneficiary and  Cost per man-month of
for sub-project        beneficiary profile;       employment for infra-
selection              compliance with poverty   structure projects; unit
targeting criteria.        costs for social assistance
projects.



- 44 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Key Features of SIF ComPared With ESF
Social Investment              Emergency
Fund                    Social Fund
Beneficiary target-   Sub-projects would be       General regional
ing mechanisms         designed to provide        programming.
basic services to very
poor and vulnerable
populations, dispropor-
tionately women
(especially mothers),
infants, and children.
Canton-level targeting,
community-level poverty
evaluation, and rigorous
beneficiary profiles.
Project generation    Partly demard driven,       Largely demand driven with
with promo  onal efforts  some promotion of institut-
geared to {veloping        ions to generate projects
institutional capacity    in sectors with less
to reach unserved          demand.
poverty areas.
Procurement            Civil works: Local shop-  Based on system of direct
guidelines             ping for contracts under  contracting with unit price
$100,000; LCB for con-    control; competitive
tracts over $100,000.      bidding for projects over
Goodss Local shopping      $250,000.
for contracts under
$20,000; LCB for con-
tracts of
$20,001-100,000; ICB for
contracts over $100,000.
(Exception: specified
computer equipment pro-
cured under local shop-
ping and direct
contracting).
All forms of procurement
backed-up with system of
controlling for unit
costs.
Administrative costs  Expected to average 42    Average 3.4? of project
of project commitments.   commitments.



A   ,   i
- 45 -                      Page 1 of 2
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Key Provisions of SIP Supreme Decree
1.       The Social Investment Fund (SIF) is created as a public entity
with legal personality and technical, financial, and administrative
autonomy, responsible directly to the President of the Republic. It shall
be managed by an Executive Director appointed by the President of the
Republic, with the rank of Cabinet Minister, who shall report to an
Administrative Council (CA), comprising the Executive Director, the Under
Secretary of Planning and Coordination for Social Policy, and three other
members, to be named by the President.
2.       SIF shall: (a) receive funds from the National Treasury under its
normal budget; (b) mobilize external financing from bilateral and
multilateral donors and lenders; and (c) utilize the funds so received in
the financing of sub-projects and programs aimed at the improvement of
health and education indicators of the poorest segment of the population,
in accordance with policies established by the corresponding ministries.
Its program shall be subject to prior approval by the National Council on
Social Policy (CONAPSO)
SIF's Operations
3.       The CA shall approve its action program and the criteria for the
selection of sub-projects. Within 30 days, by-laws specifying its
organization, administration, authority, and functions shall be approved by
express resolution of the Executive Branch.
The Emergency Social Fund
4.       The closing date for operations under the Emergency Social Fund
(ESF) is extended to March 31, 1991.



- 46-        ANNEIII
Page 2 of 2
] ~~I XiU
I~~~~ 
I   I  ~ IX
I~~S



- 47 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 15
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
SIF Subproject Selection Criteria
and Evaluation Methodology
A. Health
1. Child care centers: Construction, repair, or expansion of facilities,
provision of equipment and supplies, and financing of operating costs
(for a maximum of 18 months) of centers providing day care for
children of 6 months to 6 years, who live in depressed urban areas.
--SIF financing does not cover purchase or rent of land or buildings.
Specific target grouP: children with indicators of malnutrition
equalling or exceeding national average; with only one parent or
guardian; whose mother must work. Special priority given to
children in families with more than four children under 10.
Supervision indicators:  (a) Health:  Children are expected to show
significant improvement in nutrition indicators after one year in
the program; records on age, weight, and height on all children will
be updated every six months. All children should receive standard
immunizations within their first year in the program; reccrds of
immunizations and incidence of any illnesses will be kept in
accordance with MPSSP standards.
(b) Education: Improvements are expected in motor coordination,
perceptual discrimination, space-time orientation, language
development, and social adaptation; psychological and physical
development tests will be administered once every six months.
Training would also be provided for beneficiary mothers in the care
of their children; progress will be recorded through evaluations by
social workers to be carried out every six months.
Evaluation
Social factors:
(a) target group: verification that subproject is located in the SIP
target area, that the community in general meets the criteria for
SIF target group generally, and that the beneficiaries of the
subproject itself meet at least two of the target group selection
criteria for child care centers.
(b) Community participation: verification through direct
interviews with intended beneficiaries: (i) their awareness of the
objectives and intended activities of the subproject (at least half
of the group should be familiar with these details); (ii) their
commitment to participate in training programs and other activities
planned for beneficiary parents; and (iii) their commitment (where



- 48 -                           ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 15
applicable) to provide the materials and/or labor required for
construction under the subproject.
(c) Community guarantees: Verification of: (i) the existence of
community or neighborhood organizations, the relationship and/or
coordination among distinct organizations, and the type of
activities carried on by each (there must be at least one such
organization); and (ii) the authorization by the local authority for
the allocation of land and grant of building permit (where
applicable).
Technical feasibility:
-- Civil works must conform to norms established and made available
by SIF.
-- Social assistance activities must conform to norms established by
MPSSP (for nutrition programs and monitori-ng, innoculation), MEC
(for pre-school education), and MPSSP/UNICEF (for training of
mothers).
-- Verification of adequacy for proposed activities of equipment,
supplies, and personnel (existing and proposed), according to
productivity standards established by SIF.
-- Verification of correspondence of targets and timetables in
relation to available (or requested) resources and proposed
activities.
-- Verification of adequacy of timetable for disbursements and
subproject activities.
-- Verification of feasible plan for continuation of subproject
operation beyond SIF project period.
Economic feasibility:
--Analysis of project cost against SIF's unit prices.
--Verification of sources for all proposed financing/counterpart,
including existence of signed, valid agreements, where applicable.
-- Analysis of cost-per-beneficiary indicators in comparison with
parameters established by SIF.
-- Verification of cost recovery plan, including planned fees, total
income projected, and planned use of income; analysis of
possibilities for self-financing of operations.
Institutional feasibility:
-- Institution proposing to carry out subproject and manage child
care center must meet the following criteria:
- legal personality
- experience of at least one year in child care work
- valid agreement/certification with the MPSSP and MEC
- relationship with community: must have carried out other
projects successfully in neighborhood or at least have full
support of neighborhood organizations. In cases where
institution proposes to initiate work in a particular community,
an evaluation of previous work done elsewhere would be required.
In addition, institutions will be evaluated on the basis of the
quality of information they provide on the population of the
project area, the living conditions of the intended project
beneficiaries, and the specific characteristics that justify the
project.



- 49 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 15
-- administrative capacity, to be evaluated on the basis of:
(i) qualifications and experience of technical personnel (must be
certified in area of responsibility and have at least one year of
experience); (ii) proportion of proposed administrative costs to
overall operating costs (must not exceed SIF guidelines);
(iii) equipment owned by or available to the institution
(quantity and quality must be adequate for proposed activities).
-- SIF evaluator's assessment will take account of evaluations of
requesting institution's capacity carried out by other
financiers.
2. Child nutrition programs
(a) School meals: Provision of equipment and operating costs,
including, transportation and administrative costs, and supervisory
personnel (for a maximum of 18 months) related to the distribution of
one meal per day to children of pre-school age to 12 years in areas
judged to suffer from significant nutritional deficiencies;
-- SIF financing does not cover costs of any construction, purchase of
food, or payment of food preparation personnel.
Specific target group: Children in pre-primary or primary public
schools who present signs of higher-than-average malnutrition and where
the repetition and school dropout rates are higher than the national
average.
Program goals/supervision indicators: Levels of malnutrition should
show a 1OZ improvement during a school year, as measured by age,
weight, and height data. (Severe cases would be referred for
hospital/health center attention). The dropout and repetition rates
would also be expected to drop, up to 102 in a school year.
Evaluation:
Social factors:
-- Community participation: Parents should be aware of the goals
and activities to be carried out under the project, should have an
active parents' association, should be committed to participating in
training programs planned as complements to the school meal program,
promoting an appropriate (and clean) environment for the preparation
of the meals, and to participating by turns in tasks related to the
acquisition, preparation, and distribution of the meals.
-- Community guarantee: verification of adequate coordination
between the parents' association and the requesting/executing
agency.
Technical feasibilitys
-- Verify that proposed portions and nutritional contents of meals
comply with MPSSP norms.
-- Verify that the conditions for food preparation meet minimum
standards (space, hygiene).
-- Verify that the existing or proposed equipment, supplies, and
personnel are adequate for proposed activities under the project, in
accordance with productivity standards established by SIF.



- 50 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 15
-- Verification that targets and timetables correspond to available
(or requested) resources and proposed activities.
-- Verification of adequacy of timetable for disbursements and
subproject activities.
-- Verification of feasible plan for continuation of subproject
operation beyond SIF project period.
Economic feasibility:
-- Analysis of project cost against SIF's unit prices.
-- Verification of sources for all proposed financing/counterpart,
including existence of signed, valid agreements, where applicable.
-- Analysis of cost-per-beneficiary indicators in comparison with
parameters established by SIF.
-- Verification of cost recovery plan, including planned fees, total
income projected, and planned use of income; analysis of
possibilities for self-financing of operations.
Institutional feasibility:
-- Institution proposing to carry out subproject and manage child care
center must meet the following criteria:
- legal personality
- experience of at least one year in carrying out school meal
programs, or work in related areas of at least 2 years.
- valid agreement/certification with the MPSSP and MEC
- relationship with community: must have carried out other projects
successfully in neighborhood or at least have full support of
neighborhood organizations. In cases where institution proposes to
initiate work in a particular community, an evaluation of previous
work done elsewhere would be required. In addition, institutions
will be evaluated on the basis of the quality of information they
provide on the population of the project area, the living conditions
of the intended project beneficiaries, and the specific
characteristics that justify the project.
- administrative capacity, to be evaluated on the basis of:
(i) qualifications and experience of technical personnel (must be
certified in area of responsibility and have at least one year of
experience); (ii) proportion of proposed administrative costs to
overall operating costs (must not exceed SIF guidelines);
(iii) equipment owned by or available to the institution (quantity
and quality must be adequate for proposed activities).
-- Verify levels of productivity on basis of most recent year's
operations.
-- SIF evaluator's assessment will take account of evaluations of
requesting institution's capacity carried out by other financiers.
(b) Child nutrition centers: Construction, repair, or expansion of
centers for preparation and distribution of meals to children judged to
suffer from nutritional deficiencies, and provision of equipment and
operating expenses (for a maximum of 18 months).
-- SIF does not finance land for construction or construction of new
structures for programs in operation for less than four years.



- 51 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 15
Specific target group: Children from 6-14 in urban areas who are
obliged to work full time, do not attend school, and are not able to
adequately feed themselves.
Supervision Indicators: Levels of malnutrition should show a 1OZ
improvement during a year, as measured by age, weight, and height data.
(Severe cases would be referred for hospitalihealth center attention).
Measurements would also be carried out to determine gains in reading
comprehension resulting from educational programs offered by the
centers.
Evaluation:
Social factorst
The chief factor would be the presence of groups of children fitting
the specific target group criteria, including high observable levels
of malnutrition.
Technical feasibilitys
-- Verify that proposed portions and nutritional contents of meals
comply with MPSSP norms.
-- Verify that the conditions for food preparation meet minimum
standards (space, hygiene).
-- Verify that the existing or proposed equipment, supplies, and
personnel are adequate for proposed activities under the project, in
accordance with productivity standards established by SIF.
-- Verification of adequacy of timetable for disbursements and
subproject activities.
-- Verification of feasible plan for continuation of subproject
operation beyond SIF project period.
Economic feasibility:
- Analysis of project cost against SIF's unit prices.
-- Verification of sources for all proposed financing/counterpart,
including existence of signed, valid agreements, where applicable.
-- Analysis of cost-per-beneficiary indicators in comparison with
parameters established by SIF.
-- Verification of cost recovery plan, including planned fees, total
income projected, and planned use of income; analysis of
possibilities for self-financing of operations.
Institutional feasibilitys
-- Institution proposing to carry out a child nutrition center must
meet the following criteria:
- experience of at least two years in carrying out child nutrition
centers or work in related areas.
- valid agreement/certification with the MPSSP and MEC
- administrative capacity, to be evaluated on the basis of:
(i) qualifications and experience of technical personnel (must be
certified in area of responsibility and have at least one year of
experience); (ii) proportion of proposed administrative costs to
overall operating costs (must not exceed SIF guidelines);
(iii) equipment owned by or available to the institution (quantity
and quality must be adequate for proposed activities).



- 52 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 15
-- Verify levels of productivity on basis of most recent year's
operations.
-- SIF evaluator's assessment will take account of evaluations of
requesting institution's capacity carried out by other financiers.
3. Nutritional Development and Training Program: An integrated program
designed to improve the diet of poor rural communities, consisting of
installation of basic infrastructure (such as wells or cisterns and
simple greenhouse structures of plastic sheeting), provision of simple
tools, seeds, and fertilizers, and training for beneficiaries in
improving the nutritional quality of their diets.
-- SIF would provide financing for materials for infrastructure
(labor to be provided by community), tools, seeds, fertilizers,
extension services, training, and teaching materials.
-- SIF does not finance purchase of land, payment of administrative
costs, or labor for construction. Financing of services and inputs
would be limited to one year.
Specific target group: Poor, rural communities whose diets are
vitamin-deficient and who live in areas where growing conditions can be
significantly improved by simple protective infrastructure.
Evaluation
SIF has contracted consultants to assist in designing evaluation
criteria and supervision indicators for this type of subproject. It
would be a condition of disbursement for these subprojects that
evaluation criteria for the subprojects and for institutions requesting
such subprojects had been designed, found satisfactory by IDA, and
incorporated into the Evaluation and Supervision Manuals.
4. Basic and primary health care: Construction, expansion, or repair of
health posts, provision of basic equipment, supplies, and medicines,
financing of personnel and other operating costs (for a maximum of 18
months), training for para-medical personnel (nurse's aids, midwives,
and health promotion agents), and basic health and hygiene education
programs for the beneficiary communities.
-- SIF does not finance purchase of land for construction or
buildings, salaries of administrative personnel, or large equipment;
financing of operating costs is limited to 18 months.
Specific target group: communities at high health risk and lacking
primary health care services, particularly those with higher-tban-
average rates of infant mortality, maternal mortality, child
malnutrition, and prevalence of contagious diseases. Within such
communities, mothers and children are the highest priority target sub-
group.



- 53 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 15
Supervision Indicators: As established in the MPSSP document:
"Standards for Upgrading Community Health Services." Ultimate goal of
such subproject is to reduce incidence of morbidity and mortality in
beneficiary community through increased coverage and improved quality
of health services.
Evaluation
Social factors:
(a) target group: verification that subproject is located in the SIF
target area, that the community in general meets the criteria for
SIF target group generally, and that the beneficiaries meet the
criteria for target group selection for primary health care centers.
Verify that the services and programs proposed for the center
correspond to the priority health needs of the beneficiary
population, identified according to MPSSP standards.
(b) Community participation: verification through direct
interviews with intended beneficiaries: (i) their awareness of the
objectives and intended activities of the subproject (at least half
of the group should be familiar with these details)and their
acceptance of the subproject and RA; (ii) their commitment to
provide the proposed counterpart for construction of proposed
infrastructure (materials, labor); their commitment to participate
in training programs and other activities planned for beneficiaries.
(c) Community guarantees: Verification of: (i) the existence of
community or neighborhood organizations, the relationship and/or
coordination among distinct organizations, and the type of
activities carried on by each (there must be at least one such
organization); and (ii) the authorization by the local authority for
the allocation of land and grant of building permit.
Technical feasibilitys
-- Civil works, equipment, personnel, and supplies proposed must
conform to norms established in "Standards for Upgrading Community
Health Services" (see above).
-- Proposed assistance activities must conform to norms established
by MPSSP and SIF.
-- Verification of adequacy for proposed activities of equipment,
supplies, and personnel (existing and proposed), according to
productivity standards established in "Standards for Upgrading
Community Health Services."
-- Verification of correspondence of targets and timetables in
relation to available (or requested) resources and proposed
activities.
-- Verification of adequacy of timetable for disbursements and
subproject activities.
-- Verification of feasible plan for continuation of subproject
operation beyond SIF project period.
Economic feasibilitys
-- Analysis of project cost against SIF's unit prices.
-- Verification of sources for all proposed financing/counterpart,
including existence of signed, valid agreements, where applicable.



- 54 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 15
-- Analysis of cost-per-beneficiary indicators in comparison with
parameters established by SIF.
-- Verification of cost recovery plan, including planned fees, total
income projected, and planned use of income; analysis of
possibilities for self-financing of operations.
Institutional feasibility:
-- If other than MPSSP, institution (e.g., NGO) proposing to carry out
subproject and manage primary health center must meet the following
criteria:
- legal personality
- experience of at least two years in providing health care
services.
- valid agreement/certification with the MPSSP.
- relationship with community: must have carried out other projects
successfully in neighborhood or at least have full support of
neighborhood organizations. In cases where institution proposes to
initiate work in a particular community, an evaluation of previous
work done elsewhere would be required. In addition, institutions
will be evaluated on the basis of the quality of information they
provide on the population of the project area, the living conditions
of the intended project beneficiaries, and the specific
characteristics that justify the project.
- administrative capacity, to be evaluated on the basis of:
(i) qualifications and experience of technical personnel (must be
certified in area of responsibility and have at least one year of
experience); (ii) proportion of proposed administrative costs to
overall operating costs (must not exceed SIF guidelines);
(iii) equipment owned by or available to the institution (quantity
and quality must be adequate for proposed activities).
-- SIF evaluator's assessment will take account of evaluations of
requesting institution's capacity carried out by other financiers.
5.  Immunization campaigns:  Provision of medicines and supplies, travel
expenses, and material for community education required for the
carrying out of such programs in areas with a high percentage of
population in SIF's target group where specific diseases are endemic or
where population is at high risk for particular diseases.
-- SIF would not finance purchase of vehicles, salaries of
personnel, permanently installed equipment, or expenses related to
nation-wide innoculation campaigns.
Evaluation:
Evaluation criteria and supervision indicators are in the process of
being refined by SIF, with assistance from consultants. It would be a
condition of disbursement for these subprojects that evaluation
criteria for the subprojects and for institutions requesting such
subprojects had been designed, found satisfactory by IDA, and
incorporated into the Evaluation and Supervision Manuals.



- 55 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 15
6.  Basic water supply and sanitation:  (a) Water supply:  Installation of
basic infrastructure (e.g. viaducts, wells) in marginal urban areas and
rural communities, combined with training for communities in the
importance, treatment and use of safe, potable water.
(b) Sanitation: Construction of small-scale sewerage systems or
latrines, accompanied by beneficiary training in hygiene.
-- SIF does not finance maintenance or administration of systems.
Specific target group: Communities in marginal urban or rural areas
lacking potable water or basic sewage disposal infrastructure,
particularly those with high incidence of contagious gastro-intestinal
diseases.
Evaluation:
An essential element in the achievement of health goals under such
subprojects is the carrying out of adequate beneficiary training
programs in the proper maintenance and administration/operation of the
systems themselves. SIF has contracted consultants to assist in
designing a methodology for such training programs, as well as
evaluation criteria and supervision indicators for t        types of
subprojects, taking into account this methodology. -t .ould be a
condition of disbursement for these subprojects that a manual
presenting this training methodology, as well as evaluation criteria
for the subprojects and for institutions requesting such subprojects
had been designed, found satisfactory by IDA, and incorporated into the
Evaluation and Supervision Manuals.



- 56 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 15
B. Education
1.  Primary schools (construction, equipment, distribution of textbooks):
Construction, expansion, or repair of primary school buildings in
depressed urban areas or rural areas, with emphasis on the latter,
and/or provision of equipment, furniture, teaching materials, or
textbooks.
Specific target group: communities in SIF priority target zones
lacking infrastructure or equipment for primary education. For
construction projects, highest priority would be assigned to rural
areas.
Evaluation
Social factors:
(a) target group: verification that subproject is located in the SIF
target area, that the community in general meets the criteria for
SIF target group.
(b) Correspondence with assessed needs of population. Verify
adequacy of placement for school in terms of accessibility for a
majority of the beneficiary students. Verify dimension and capacity
of school compared with size of population and general economic base
and dynamics of community.
(c) Community participation: verification through direct
interviews with intended beneficiaries: (i) their commitment
agreement regarding the need for the project and their willingness
to provide the necessary contributions in labor and materials;
(d) Community guarantees: Verification of the authorization by the
local authority (or community group) for the allocation of a
building site. Written agreement with the community organization
regarding the execution of the project.
Technical feasibility:
-- Civil works for expansion or repair must comply with SIF
standards.
Economic feasibility:
-- Analysis of project cost against SIF's unit prices.
-- Verification of sources for all proposed financing/counterpart,
including existence of signed, valid agreements, where applicable.
-- Analysis of cost-per-beneficiary indicators in comparison with
parameters established by SIF.
Institutional feasibility:
RA must have:
- at least two years experience in educational projects.
- valid agreement/certification with the MEC.
- MEC approval for budgeting of teacher(s) and other operating costs
normally covered by MEC.



- 57 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 15
- established a relationship with the community and with organized
community groups.
- demonstrated its commitment to maintaining the infrastructure (and
organized the community's support for the commitment, where
appropriate).
- provide assurances of its ability to provide (or obtain) the
necessary equipment for the operation of the school.
2. Small community libraries: Repair or expansion of buildings or rooms
for use as libraries in target communities, as a complement to ongoing
formal or informal educational programs; provision of equipment,
furniture, and reading materials; and financing of operating costs (for
up to 18 months).
-- SIF does not finance purchase of land or buildings, or construction
of new buildings.
Specific target group: Communities within SIF's general target group,
with primary school infrastructure, but without access to general
reading materials, and with below average levels of scholastic
achievement.
Evaluation
Social factorst
(a) target group: verification that subproject is located in the SIF
target area, that the community in general meets the criteria for
SIF target group generally, and that the beneficiaries meet the
criteria for target group selection for community libraries.
(b) Community participation: verification through direct
interviews with intended beneficiaries (including teachers, parents,
and students): (i) their awareness of and interest in the objectives
of the subproject (at least half of the group should be familiar
with these details)and their acceptance of the subproject and RA;
(ii) the willingness of teachers to participate in drawing up a list
of bcoks for the library; (iii) their commitment to provide the
proposed counterpart for repair or remodeling of proposed locale
(materials, labor).
(c) Community guarantees: Verification of the authorization by the
local authority (or community group) for the allocation of a
building (or room) for adaptation as a reading center.
Technical feasibility:
-- Civil works for expansion or repair must comply with SIF
standards.
-- Proposed list of school texts and reference books should conform
to norms established by MEC.
-- Verification of adequate equipment (furniture, bookshelves, etc.)
and books for proposed subproject.
-- Verification of existence of personnel to staff library (for
organization of materials and guidance of users.



- 58 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 15
-- Verification of correspondence of targets and timetables in
relation to available (or requested) resources and proposed
activities.
-- Verification of feasible plan for continuation of subproject
operation beyond SIF project period.
Economic feasibility:
-- Analysis of project cost against SIF's unit prices.
-- Verification of sources for all proposed financing/counterpart,
including existence of signed, valid agreements, where applicable.
-- Analysis of cost-per-beneficiary indicators in comparison with
parameters established by SIF.
-- Verification of cost recovery plan, including planned fees, total
income projected, and planned use of income; analysis of
possibilities for self-financing of operations.
Institutional feasibility:
RA must have:
- at least two years experience in educational projects.
- valid agreement/certification with the MEC.
- established a relationship with the community and with the staff
of primary schools in the area and must have their support.
--In addition, institutions will be evaluated on the basis of the
quality of information they provide on the population of the project
area. the living conditions of the intended project beneficiaries, and
the specific characteristics that justify the project.
- adequate administrative capacity, to be evaluated on the basis of:
(i) qualifications and experience of technical personnel (must be
certified in area of responsibility and have at least one year of
experience); (ii) proportion of proposed administrative costs to
overall operating costs (must not exceed SIF guidelines);
(iii) equipment owned by or available to the institution (quantity
and quality must be adequate for proposed a:.tivities).
-- SIP evaluator's assessment will take account of evaluations of
requesting institution's capacity carried out by other financiers.
3. Literacy and practical training programs: Repair or expansion of
facilities used for short-term training programs for adults with less
than secondary education, provision of tools and supplies, and
financing of operating expenses (for up to 18 months).
-- SIP does not finance construction of new buildings, purchase of
land or buildings, vehicles, machinery, or audiovisual equipment.
(a)Literacy training:
Specific target group:  groups within SIF target communities who are                 r
illiterate; special encouragement would be given for the participation
of women.
Supervision Indicators: After one year of training, beneficiaries
should be able to read and write and do simple arithmetic.



-59 -                           ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 15
Evaluation
Social factors:
(a) Target group: verification that subproject is located in the SIF
target area and that the beneficiaries meet the criteria for
literacy training.
(b) Community participation: verification through direct interviews
with intended beneficiaries: (i) their awareness of the objectives
and intended activities of the subproject and their acceptance of
the subproject and RA; and (ii) their commitment to provide the
proposed counterpart for the subproject (appropriate locale for use
as a training center, housing and meals for trainers). construction
of proposed infrastructure (materials, labor).
(c) Community guarantees: Verification of the authorization by the
local authority for the allocation of a locale for use as a training
center.
Technical feasibility:
-- Civil works (for repair or expansion) must comply with SIF
standards.
-- Proposed training program activities must conform to norms
established by MEC. Trainers' training must conform to SENALEP's
norms.
-- Verification of adequacy of proposed personnel for number of
beneficiaries (1 trainer:30 students; 1 supervisors30 trainers).
-- Verification of correspondence of targets and timet-bles to norms
for such training programs (maximum of 10 months per group).
-- Verification of adequacy of timetable for disbursements and
subproject activities.
-- Verification that required materials and supplies are available.
-- Verification of feasible plan for continuation of subproject
operation beyond SIF project period.
Economic feasibilitys
-- Analysis of project cost against SIF's unit prices.
-- Verification of sources for all proposed financinglcounterpart,
including existence of signed, valid agreements, where applicable.
-- Analysis of cost-per-beneficiary indicators in comparison with
parameters established by SIF.
-- Verification of cost recovery plan, including planned fees, total
income projected, and planned use of income; analysis of
possibilities for self-financing of operations.
Institutional feasibility:
RA must have:
-- a minimum of one year experience in such programs.
-- legal personality
-- valid agreement/certification with the MEC.
-- established a positive relationship with community. In addition,
institutions will be evaluated on the basis of the quality of
information they provide on the population of the project area, the
living conditions of the intended project beneficiaries, and the
specific characteristics that justify the project.
-- adequately trained personnel in sufficient numbers to carry out
the training programs under the subproject.



- 60 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 15
-- sufficient vehicles for trainers and supervisors to carry out
their duties.
-- SIF evaluator's assessment will take account of evaluations of
requesting institution's capacity carried out by other financiers.
(b) Practical training:
Specific target group: groups within SIF target communities who are
under- or unemployed, where indicators of productivity are
exceptionally low, or where employers in nearby labor markets have
indicated an unsatisfied demand for specifically skilled labor that
could be addressed through proposed program.
Program goals: To provide participants with sufficient practical
training to find employment and improve their productivity and income.
Evaluation
Social factors:
(a) Target group: verification that subproject is located in the SIF
target area and that the beneficiaries meet the criteria for
practical training programs.
(b) Community participation: verification through direct
interviews with intended beneficiaries: (i) their awareness of the
objectives and intended activities of the subproject and their
acceptance of the subproject and RA; and (ii) their commitment to
participate in the training programs.
(c) Community guarantees: Verification of: (i) the existence of
community or neighborhood organizations, trade unions, or
cooperatives; and (ii) the authorization by the local authority for
the allocation of a locale for use as training center.
Technical feasibilitys
-- Civil works (expansion, repair of locale) must conform to SIF
standards.
-- Proposed training programs must conform to norms established by
the appropriate normative ministry (Ministry of Agricultural
Affairs, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Industry, or Ministry of
Mining).
-- Verify that emphasis of program would be on practical, rather
than theoretical training.
-- Verification of adequacy of equipment, supplies, and personnel
(existing and proposed) for proposed activities under the
subproject.
-- Verification of correspondence of targets and timetables in
relation to available (or requested) resources and proposed
activities.
-- For training of micro-entrepreneurs, verification that program
would cover basic accounting, production planning, inventory
control, budgeting and cost control, and basic marketing.
-- Verification of existence of labor market for trainee graduates.
-- Verification of adequacy of timetable for disbursements and
subproject activities.
-- Verification of feasible plan for continuation of subproject
operation beyond SIF project period.



-61-                            ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 15
Economic feasibility:
-- Analysis of project cost against SIF's unit prices.
-- Verification of sources for all proposed financing/counterpart,
including existence of signed, valid agreements, where applicable.
-- Analysis of cost-per-beneficiary indicators in comparison with
parameters established by SIF.
-- Verification of cost recovery plan, including planned fees, total
income projected, and planned use of income; analysis of
possibilities for self-financing of operations.
Institutional feasibility:
RA must have:
-- legal personality
-- experience of at least two years in carrying out practical
training programs.
-- valid agreement/certification with the Ministry corresponding to
type of training to be provided.
-- relationship with community: must have carried out other
projects successfully in neighborhood or at least have full support
of neighborhood organizations. In cases where institution proposes
to initiate work in a particular community, an evaluation of
previous work dor-e elsewhere would be required. In addition,
institutions will be evaluated on the basis of the quality of
information they provide on the population of the project area, the
living conditions of the intended project beneficiaries, and the
specific characteristics that justify the project.
-- administrative capacity, to be evaluated on the basis of:
(i) qualifications and experience of technical personnel (must be
certified in area of responsibility and have at least one year of
experience); (ii) proportion of proposed administrative costs to
overall operating costs (must not exceed SIF guidelines);
(iii) equipment owned by or available to the institution (quantity
and quality must be adequate for proposed activities).
-- SIF evaluator's assessment will take account of evaluations of
requesting institution's capacity carried out by other financiers.



- 62 -                           ANNEX V
Page 1 of 8
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Technical Assistance
A. Poverty and Demography
1.       Background.  One of the central features of SIF's mandate is the
objective of bringing the benefits of investments and programs in health
and education to the poorest segments of the population (Annex III). SIF
has developed a methodology for targeting its activities toward communities
fitting specific poverty criteria and for overcoming the obstacles to
executing projects in such communities (Annex VII). This methodology
contains a number of innovative, untried approaches, which SIF would be
testing in the first year or so of operations. Therefore, it is
appropriate that the effectiveness of the new methodologies be evaluated
after an initial trial period with a view to further refining the approach.
Technical assistance would be contracted to carry out this evaluation and
recommend any specific changes needed.
2.       Qualifications and Experience.  The consultant should have
advanced training in sociology, anthropology, economics, or political
science, and must have had experience in programs designed to channel
resources to poor communities in remote areas. It is anticipated that
either international or national candidates may be qualified.
3.       Terms of Reference.  The consultant should review all activities
carried out under the active promotion program since the initiation of SIF
operations, noting any modifications to the poverty targeting methodology
as presented in the Promotion Manual that may have been made on an ad hoc
basis.  The work should include an overview of the mapping system of
communities and cantons maintained by the Information Systems Department,
field visits with staff in the Promotion Department, analysis of the
results obtained to date measured by projects identified and/or executed in
target communities identified under active promotion, and an analysis of
critical constraints together with recommendations for their solution.
4.       The consultant should produce a concise report containing the
highlights of his analysis, its principal conclusions, and specific
recommendations for refinement of SIF's poverty targeting and active
promotion methodology.
5.       Consultant Time Required.  Three man-months.
6.       Timing:  1990.



- 63 -                           ANNEX V
Page 2 of 8
B. Institutional Evaluation
7.       Background.  A crucial element in the success of any project is
the institutional capacity of the executing agency; this element is even
more important in the case of projects consisting of provision of services
(in contrast to construction of infrastructure), where project success
turns not only on the institution's technical capacity, but on its ability
to communicate and establish rapport with its target community, and its
general management capacity, including its ability to sustain operations
beyond the investment start-up period. Based on the experience of ESF, the
chances for success of such "social assistance" projects would be increased
by development of an improved methodology for institutional appraisal of
RAs, especially (though not exclusively) in the case of NGOs, proposing to
carry out assistance or service subprojects. Second, in order to
appropriately address problems that arise during execution of service-
oriented subprojects, improved indicators for monitoring institutional
performance and progress of implementation are needed.
8.       Qualifications and Experience.  The consultant should have
advanced training in sociology, anthropology, economics, or political
science, and must have had experience in working with and evaluating NGO
capacity and performance. It is anticipated that either international or
national candidates may be qualified. The task of developing institutional
appraisal methodologies may be separated from that of developing
institutional performance indicators during supervision, but the two should
be well coordinated.
9.       Terms of Reference.  The consultant will review ESF experience
with RAs, focussing particularly on NGOs, both through a review of written
records of subproject supervision and interviews with ESF supervisory
staff, with the purpose of identifying problems (and their causes) that
interfered with subproject execution and/or success (ESF Supervision
Department has prepared a report summarizing the most common problems). He
will then take these points into account in preparing a proposed
methodology for institutional evaluation of RAs. Attention will be given
to assessment of organizational and management capacity as well as to
technical qualifications. The consultant discuss a draft of the
methodology with SIF evaluation and supervision staff and take their
comments into account in finalizing his proposal.
10.      Consultant Time Required.  Three man-months.
11.      Timing:  1990.



- 64 -                           ANNEX V
Page 3 of 8
C. Identification, Evaluation and Monitoring of Subprojects
Refinement of evaluation and monitoring methodologies for certain types of
subprojects and in development of methodology for training communities in
the use, operation, and maintenance of infrastructure.
12.      Background.  SIF's active approach to poverty targeting together
with its objective of assuring optimal use of resources requires that
subprojects be selected not only on the basis of the subprojects' viability
in isolation, but also on the basis of an evaluation of the community's
overall needs. This analysis in turn requires development of practical
methodologies for carrying out an assessment of those needs (particularly
regarding health) and for screening subprojects in the context of that
analysis. In addition, the need for improved methodologies for the
evaluation, supervision, and monitoring of the impact of several specific
types of subprojects (or parts of subprojects) has been identified.
(a) Consultants' services are required: (1) to develop or improve
methodologies for:
(i) identification and prioritization of the health status and
need for health services of communities;
(ii) evaluation of the adequacy of specific subproject
proposals with respect to the priority needs of a
community;
(iii) design of training programs for beneficiaries of health
subprojects to develop awareness of services offered and
assist them in obtaining optimum benefits from them;
(iv) appraisal of informal (e.g., literacy) training programs;
(v) practical measurement of the impact of health and
education programs; and
(2)  to develop improved indicators for supervision of assistance
(services) subprojects in both health and education.
(b) For subprojects in small-scale water supply and sanitation
systems, assistance is needed for development of: (i) model designs based
on appropriate technologies, (ii) mechanisms for managing community
financing of operating and maintenance costs; and (iii) a methodology for
evaluation of communities' capacity to contribute to maintenance and
operating costs of water supply and sanitation subprojects.
(c) For subprojects in nutritional development and training,
assistance is needed for: (i) development of appropriate technologies for
the construction, operation, and maintenance of infrastructure (e.g.,
simple greenhouses); (ii) preparation of a list of unit prices;
(iii) design of programs for community training; and (iv) preparation of a
model project.
13.      Qualifications and Experience.  The consultant for (a) (1)
(i)-(iii) should have advanced training in sociology, anthropology,
economics, or public health, and must have had experience in working in



- 65 -                           ANNEX V
Page 4 of 8
public health projects in small communities. For (iv), experience in adult
literacy or practical training programs is essential. For (v), background
and experience in statistical measurement of health and education
indicators is required. For (a) (2), in addition to advanced training in
one or more of the fields mentioned above, the consultant must have
extensive experience in the management and/or supervision of projects
involving the provision of services in both health and education, and
involving the participation of many agencies at the level of service
delivery. For (b), a sanitary engineer with experience in small-scale
projects involving extensive community participation would be needed. For
(c), an agronomist with experience in simple greenhouse projects in similar
types of communities would be needed; support from a nutritionist may also
be required.
14.      Terms of Reference.
For (a):    The consultant should be familiar with SIF's poverty targeting
methodology and should make several visits with SIF Health
Department promotion staff to target communities. Working with
available indicator data and community profiles, he will
develop a practical approach to identification and
prioritization of critical health needs in communities for use
by promotion staff. He will propose modifications to the
information provided in the community profiles (and to the
questionnaires from which they are derived) as necessary. He
will supply clear guidelines for evaluation of subproject
proposals against needs assessments. For (iii), the consultant
will study several beneficiary communities of ESF health
subprojects with both high and low rates of utilization. He
will take into account successful ongoing efforts in health
extension and apply experience from successful extension
efforts from other countries. He will prepare a proposed
strategy for beneficiary training taking these factors into
account. For (iv), the consultant will prepare a manual for
promotion/evaluation of training program proposals, including a
supplemental questionnaire to be completed by the RA that would
provide all the necessary information to determine both the
technical capacity of the RA to carry out the proposed program
and the soundness of the proposal itself. The guide will
include guidelines for assessment of the information provided.
For (v), the consultant will prepare: (a) a set of indicators
appropriate for the measurement of the impact of specific
SIF-supported subprojects on the health and education status of
beneficiary communities, and (b) guidelines for collecting the
necessary data in accordance with accepted survey methods.
For (2), the consultant will work with SIF and ESF supervision
personnel to gain an understanding of the kinds of problems
that have been identified, for which a systematic approach to
ensure early detection is required. He will then prepare a set
of supervision indicators for measuring progress of execution
and institutional performance of the RA for each type of
project involving service delivery, and for service
delivery/comunity participation components of other
subprojects.



- 66 -                           ANNEX V
Page 5 of 8
For (b):    The consultant will visit several sites of ESF water supply and
sewerage subprojects and will conduct interviews with
subproject beneficiaries to determine existing arrangements for
coverage of operating and maintenance costs and assess
beneficiaries' capacity to assume additional responsibility for
those costs. He will then: (a) prepare model designs for
subprojects of each basic type in both rural and urban
settings, taking into account the scale of subprojects
envisioned and the general standard of infrastructure existing
in the neighborhoods of subprojects observed; (b) prepare a
methodology for evaluation of communities' capacity to
contribute to maintenance and operating costs of water supply
and sanitation subprojects; and (c) develop and prepare a guide
for application of mechanisms for managing community financing
of operating and maintenance costs.
For (c)s    The consultant will visit several sites for which SIF has
received proposals for financing of greenhouses as well as
sites of such projects carried out under ESF. Taking into
account local conditions and the general technological level in
the community, he will then prepare model designs for
greenhouses and guides for the application of appropriate
technologies in the construction, operation, and maintenance of
the structures. He will prepare detailed lists of materials
required for construction, assist SIF in compiling a list of
unit costs for the materials, and suggest which, if any,
materials could be provided by beneficiary communities
themselves. Analyzing the growing conditions in each zone
visited, he will compile lists of vegetables well adapted to
those conditions. Finally, will prepare a guide for training
of beneficiaries in the use and maintenance of the
infrastructure.
15.      Consultant Time Requireds
(a) - 9 man-months
(b) - 4 man-months
(c) - 4 man-months
16.      Timing:  1990.



- 67 -                           ANNEX V
Page 6 of 8
D. Information systems
Consultants' services related to the installation of new hardware
and software and training and backup for SIF Information Department staff.
17.      Background.  The requirements of the poverty targeting
methodology, extensive management information system, and maintenance and
use of several large data bases indicates the need for increasing the
computing capacity of ESF, which will be passed on to SIF. Several new
microcomputers will be added, and all computers will be linked together
with a minicomputer and appropriate software. While individual users will
not require additional training, technical assistance is required to assure
smooth transition to the network environment and continued coordination
among all the elements.
18.      Qualifications and Experience.  The consultants must be familiar
with all elements in the system, including both hardware and software, and
must be certified by the suppliers. 4
19.      Terms of Reference.  Design and supervise the transfer of all
computerized information systems to the new network. Train SIF's resident
specialist in troubleshooting and solving potential problems. Short-term
consultants would also be employed as necessary to solve problems during
implementation.
20.      Consultant Time Required:  Total estimate: 20 man-months.
21.      Timing:  1990-92.



- 68 -                           ANNEX V
Page 7 of 8
E. Short- and Long-term Monitoring:
22.      Background.  SIF's effectiveness in achieving its goal of
improving the health and education status of its beneficiary communities
will require periodic evaluation of its performance together with
flexibility to undertake adjustments as indicated. In addition, periodic
assessments will also be necessary to determine the real impact of
SIF-financed investments/programs on corresponding health and education
indicators. SIF plans to carry out, with the help of technical assistance,
yearly performance reviews to analyze the coverage, adequacy of project
selection, supervision procedures and other aspects relating to the
efficiency and effectiveness of SIF operations as compared with its
objectives. Beginning in the third year of operations, it would also carry
out periodic surveys to analyze the long-term impact of SIF projects on
their beneficiaries.
23.      Qualifications and Experience.  For the annual reviews, one or
more consultants with advanced training in any of the related fields would
be needed; experience in working with programs with similar objectives to
those of SIF would be essential. The consultant(s) would be supported by a
team of assistants to gather and compile data and help in conducting
interviews. For the longer-term evaluation, one or more consultants with
advanced training and experience in statistical survey techniques and
analysis of health and education indicators would be needed. He would also
receive assistance from statistical analysts (in coordination with INE).
24.      Terms of Reference.  For the yearly evaluations, the consultant
would examine each aspect of SIF operations, with the view to both
identifying persistent problems and to assessing the degree to which SIF's
stated goals are being achieved through current practices. He will also
study common experiences and problems emerging with each type of
subproject, and suggest specific ways for incorporating improvements. He
will examine a sample of subprojects in depth and assess the
appropriateness of choice of subproject and subproject design to local
conditions, and the degree to which the community meets target group
criteria. He will prepare a concise report summarizing the conclusions of
his analysis and recommending concrete actions for improvement where
indicated.
25.      For the medium-term impact monitoring/evaluation exercise, the
consultant will organize the collection of data on health and education
indicators on a sample of beneficiary communities and analyze the data in
comparison with baseline data collected by SIF at the time of subproject
appraisal, as well as with other available data. (SIF is receiving
assistance from INE in this regard). He will prepare a report analyzing
SIF's impact, by subproject and overall, on its beneficiary population. He
wi'.l also consider questions of the appropriateness of SIF's design of
operations and form of intervention to the achievement of its objectives.
26.      Consultant Time Required:
For annual performance evaluation, 12 man-months per year,
including support staff (assistant analysts)
For medium-term impact evaluation, 14 man-months.



- 69 -                           ANNEX V
Page 8 of 8
27.      Timing:  Yearly.
Medium-term review: 1992.
K. Operational Research.
28.      Background.
Based on the experisnce of ESF, the presence and insight of NGOs
and other organizations have proven to be very valuable in the
identification of the causes and possible solutions to specific operational
problems as they are identified. However, since the process of
systematizing their observations implies costs in time, human resources,
and travel expenses, their input is often lost. In order to enable it to
draw on this resource already in place, SIF has designed a program of
"operational research," which would entail requesting specific RAs to
collect, and perhaps analyze, data needed to solve particular problems
related to the operation of subprojects, as identified in the course of
supervision. In determining the total cost of such a task, SIF would
request the RA to submit a detailed estimates of its expected costs.
29.      Qualifications and Experience.  The institution would be an RA
with which SIF has hau positive experience with respect to its subproject
execution performance and overall assessed institutional capacity.
30.      Terms of Reference.  Terms of reference would be designed on a
case by case basis, as operational problems are identified.
31.      Budget.  US$50,000 yearly.



- 70-                           ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 4
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Proiect Implementation Program
I. Actions to be Taken by the Government and SIF          Date (by)
(a) Take all action necessary to assure that           September 30, 1990.
financing agreements in an aggregate amount
not less than US$10 million become effective
by September 30, 1990 and financing
agreements in an aggregate amount not less
than US$25 million become effective by March
31, 1991, unless the Government and SIF had
made alternative arrangements, satisfactory
to IDA, to secure,,financing required for
SIP's planned commitments for financing of
subproj ects.
(b) Review of sector strategies and                    November 30, each
expenditure/investment plans; confirm              year.
continued consistency of SIF's program or
recommend changes for following year's
program and budget.
(c) Review of SIF's budget and annual program.         March 31, each
year.
(d) Confirm budgeting of operating expenditures        November 30, each
for projects for which Government is               year.
responsible.
II. Actions to be Taken by SIF
(a) Technical Assistance:
Furnish to IDA terms of reference for the
following tasks:
(i) Poverty and Demography                        September 30, 1990
(ii) Institutional Evaluation                      May 31, 1990



- 71 -                          ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 4
Actions                                                  Date (by)
(iii) Sub-project evaluation and supervision
methodologies
- Education
(Practical training)                       April 9, 1990
- Health                                      July 31, 1990
- Basic Sanitation                            March 16, 1990
- Nutritional development                     March 16, 1990
- Sub-project supervision                     April 2, 1990
(iv) Annual monitoring                             December 31, each
year
(b) Furnish to IDA revised Evaluation Manual           April 16, 1990
modified to include evaluation guidelines for
sub-projects under categories described in
para. 4.05 (a) (iii) and (vi), (b) (iii), and
(c) of the SAR.
(c) Long-term monitoring:
ti) Define methodology for baseline               July 31, 1990
indicators and submit to the Association
draft terms of reference for baseline
survey of Beneficiary Communities;
(ii) Finalize arrangements for the                 September 30, 1990
establishment of baseline indicators and
subsequent impact surveys of Beneficiary
Communities;
(iii) Submit to the Association annual reports    October 31 of each
on the progress made by SIP in its            year
monitoring program;
(iv) Submit to the Association a report on         March 31, 1993
the first impact survey of Beneficiary
Communities;
(d) Furnish to IDA the following reports:
(i) summaries of all sub-projects approved        the 15th day of
by SIF, source of financing, status of        each month.
processing or execution and key
monitoring indicators;



- 72-                           ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 4
Actions                                                  Date (by)
(ii) quarterly progress reports reviewing          Every July 1,
sources and uses of funds, and                October 1,
highlighting problems identified by SIF;    January 1, and
April -, beginning
July 1, 1990.
(iii) quarterly reviews of Procurement under        Every July 1,
sub-contracts;                                October 1,
January 1, and
April 1, beginning
July 1, 1990
(iv) reports presenting the results of annual    1 month after the
performance reviews referred to  in           review
II (a)(iv), and I (b) and (c) above; and
(v) a final report on implementation              June 30, 1991
experience and the outcome of the first
three years of the SIF program.
(e) Submit SIF's yearly budget as agreed with          November 30 of each
corresponding ministries (including Finance         year.
and Planning, where applicable).
(f) Audits of its accounts, the Special Account,       April 30 of each
and all disbursements made against SOEs in         year.
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
(g) SIF's programming of sub-projects to be
committed during the following twelve months
taking into account the budget referred to in
(e), above, and the progress made in
obtaining cofinancing.
III. Actions to be Taken by the Government and ESF
Terminate ESF's operations according to the
following timetable:
(i) Terminate disbursements under sub-            March 31, 1991.
projects
(ii) Transfer all physical assets to SIF           June 30, 1991.



- 73 -                          ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 4
Actions                                                  Date (by)
(iii) Complete legal process for dissolution        September 30, 1991.
of ESF
IV. Actions to be Taken by ES?
(a) Submit to IDA a final audit of its accounts,        July 31, 1991.
the Special Account, and all disbursements
made against SOEs.
(b) Carry out its training program for other
public agencies according to the following
timetable:
(i)  Furnish to IDA final outlines for all         April 15, 1990.
seminars, together with complete
detailed budgets for each.
(ii)  Begin seminars.                               May 21, 1990.
(iii)  Begin courses.                                June 11, 1990.
(iv)  Finalize all seminars.                        December 31, 1990.



- 74 -                         ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 4
BOLIVIA
S3CIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
SIF Poverty Targeting Methodology
1.       As part of the Government's strategy for poverty alleviation,
SIF's objective is to target its resources to the poorest segments of the
population. To achieve this objective, the SIF has designed a methodology
that works within existing data constraints and that will permit targeting
relatively small geographical areas, while minimizing the costs of
targeting. SIF's identification of target communities will be based on
available health and education indicators and an inventory of existing
infrastructure (carried out by SIF). This approach reflects not only an
unavailability of data that would identify poor populations according to
income or consumption measures, but also the fact that optimal distribution
of SIF's resources must be based on redressing the deficits in health and
education services where their effects are most keenly felt.
Methodology
2.       Any attempt to identify target groups at the community level will
encounter a trade-off between precise targeting and the clear and
significant cost of achieving such precision on a broad scale. However,
data already available (and therefore inexpensive) may not lend itself to
effective targeting. In Bolivia, the 108 provinces are already ranked by
poverty level, but the provinces are sufficiently large that aggregate data
often mask significant skewness in income distribution, particularly in
provinces that contain both capital cities and rural areas. To hold costs
down while striving for more effective targeting, SIF will first designate
priority geographical areas, focusing on the canton level.
3.       For rural areas, Census data will be combined with available
updated information to construct a data base on the more than 1,300
cantons, including indicators on: (a) infant mortality rate; (b) literacy
rate; (c) coverage of social services, including location, type of services
and type of organization administering the services; (d) population levels
and density; (e) other secondary indicators, such as malnutrition rates,
school attendance, and drop-out rates. The data will be mapped to show the
location of health and education infrastructure, permitting rapid visual
comparison with population densities, key health and education indicators,
and physical features that would affect subproject costs, such as
topography and availability of access roads. From these maps, a list of
priority cantons will be drawn up to guide SIF promotional activities.
4.       A similar methodology will be applied to urban areas on a
neighborhood level. Since more complete and updated data are available in
urban areas, project proposals can be more easily screened to ensure that
investments are going to priority areas and that they are not duplicating
existing services.



- 75 -                         ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 4
Promotional Strategy
5.       Once the initial designation of priorities has been made, SIF will
use these guidelines in two ways. First, the priority rankings and the
canton maps will be used to screen subproject proposals presented by RAs
prior to passing them on for appraisal (this is referred to as 'passive
promotion"). Second, the highest priority areas will be the targets of
action plans designed to generate subproject proposals and identify
institutions with the capacity to execute them or oversee their execution
(this effort has been dubbed the "active promotion' program by SIF).
Because many of the highest priority areas are characterized by an absence
of institutions capable of formulating subproject proposals and following
them through, active promotion would in most cases include an institutional
promotion effort as an integral component; that is, such institutions not
only need to be identified, but will often requi.e assistance to facilitate
their extension of services to remote c.ommunities. Responsibility for
carrying out all types of promotion is that of the Promotion Units of the
Health and Education Departments, whiLA will coordinate their efforts
regularly to avoid duplication of effort.
6.       Passive Promotion.  This describes the systematic, three-step
screening that each subproject proposal will undergo to determine its
ranking according to poverty targeting criteria. The first step entails a
comparison of the general location of the subproject (urban neighborhood,
rural canton) against the maps described above. The second step involves
an evaluation of the community in which the project is to be located, based
on a site visit. During the visit, information will be gathered from
community authorities, representatives of local organizations, and any
personnel providing existing health and education services. The objectives
of the site visit are to: (a) determine the general level of need for
social services; (b) identify the principal high-risk groups in the
community; (c) evaluate the adequacy of existing services in meeting the
needs of the population; and (d) assess the degree of organization of the
community for implementing a SIF-financed subproject. On the basis of this
analysis, a poverty profile of the community will be developed and a
ranking (comparable across regions and between rural and urbar areas) will
be assigned.
7.       The third step in the screening process is focussed on the
intended beneficiary group of the project itself, to assure that they are
within SIF's priority target group. This final screen is necessary in
cases where the geographical location of a project may not reflect the type
of beneficiaries it serves. An example would be a literacy program carried
out in the center of a city, but targeted to illiterate women street
vendors.
8.       Active Promotion.  While ESF was a more directly demand-driven
organization in that it relied on a spontaneous flow of projects presented
by requesting agencies, the SIF will seek to orient this demand through its



- 76 -                         ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
active promotion effort.1   Beginning with the highest priority urban
neighborhoods and rural cantons from the ranking described in paras. 3-4
above, a promoter will visit the areas to confirm and update the indicators
presented in the urban and rural poverty maps constructed by SIF. For
those cantons that lack health and education services, a demographic
profile of the canton will be prepared in order to identify population
centers large enough to warrant construction of infrastructure.
9.       Where an initial assessment indicates that a SIF-supported
subproject may be justified, the promoter will proceed to identify
institutions that may have the capacity to carry out a subproject in the
area. In areas with poor health and education indicators but with existing
infrastructure, the promoter will carry out an analysis of institutions
providing services to determine the causes for poor performance and assess
the possibility of their improving services or expanding coverage and the
type of support required to permit such improvement.
10.      The experience of the ESF demonstrated that regions of most
critical poverty regions are frequently those with the weakest (or entirely
lacking in) institutional capacity to formulate and execute projects. The
Promotion Units will orient their technical assistance in project
preparation to these areas. For regions with no institutions to serve as
RAs, financial support will be offered for existing organizations operating
nearest to the area to expand coverage to these areas. This "institutional
support" would be contingent on and linked to a specific subproject
proposal. For instance, if an NGO displays interest in providing health
services in a given province, SIF would consider financing expenditures
associated with establishing a center for the NGO's operations in that area
(e.g., basic administrative infrastructure, personnel and vehicles) that
would not be included as eligible expenditures within a standard health
project.
11.      The lead time for project preparation where an organizational
presence must be established in an unserved region is longer than in cases
where established organizations are ready to propose subprojects. This
fact is expected to represent a binding constraint on the speed with which
SIF's strategy of active promotion can begin to show results in terms of
subprojects delivered to highest priority areas (a critical part of its
poverty targeting approach) as well as on the pace of its institutional
support program per se. Cost will also limit the degree to which SIF can
effectively deliver benefits to some of the poorest populations; in very
remote, small populations, the high cost of providing infrastructure or
services coupled with the low number of potential beneficiaries will
preclude SIF participation in its initial years. Nevertheless, the number
1/ In addition to generating subproject proposals for highest-priority
areas and identifying institutions to serve as RAs in those areas,
active promotion would include efforts to encourage formulation of
subproject types assigned highest priority, assistance to organizations
in complying with SIF's guidelines for preparing and presenting
subprojects, and encourage and facilitate coordination among
institutions active in the health and education sectors (e.g. NGOs).



- 77 -                         ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 4
of extremely poor, unattended, at risk communities is sufficiently large
that reasonable cost-per-beneficiary criteria will still permit targeting
of many of the poorest groups. At the same time, SIF's targeting
mechanisms will minimize leakage of benefits to populations that do not fit
target group criteria.



ANNEX VIII
- 78 -                       Page 1 of 2
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
SIF's Internal Monitoring System
1.       The internal management information system established by ESF will
serve as a starting point for the new SIF internal monitoring system, which
will track key indicators throughout the project cycle. The system will be
adapted to fit SIF's objectives through modification of some indicators and
addition of new ones. Some of the new indicators will be designed to track
poverty targeting, while others will be aimed at strengthening the
monitoring of sub-project overall financing plans, including beneficiary
contributions.
2.       SIF's Information Department will have responsibility for
maintaining the Internal Monitoring System and providing timely reports to
the Executive Director and other SIF operational departments. The reports
will be designed to flag projects experiencing unusual delays in any phase
of the project cycle or cost overruns during implementation.
3.       The principle information to be tracked by the MIS system include:
A. Basic Project Data:
Project Name
Project Code Number
Contract Code Number(s)
Category (Health or Education)
Sub-Category
Type (Infrastructure or Assistance)
Name and Type of Requesting Agency
Supervisor
Executing Agency, contractor, or supplier
Method of Procurement (for all contracts, if more than one)
Related Projects, if any
Other projects in same area
B. Project Financing:
Total Project Cost
Amount requested from SIF
Amount Approved by SIF
Counterpart Amount
Counterpart Source
Value of Community Contribution
Source of Community Contribution
Type of Community Contribution
Source of SIF Financing (Treasury, IDA, donor)



ANNEX VIII
- 79 -                       Page 2 of 2
C. Poverty Targeting:
Name of:
Department
Province
Canton
Locality (Rural) or Neighborhood (Urban)
Classification (rural/urban)
Community Poverty Index
Date of Community Evaluation by SIF
D. Sub-project Evaluationt
Description of Project
Estimated duration of sub-project execution (SIF-financed)
Model sub-project cost (Proyecto Tipo)
Composition of sub-project costs (labor, materials,
equipment)
Internal rate of return, where applicable
Physical Targets (e.g., area to be constructed, number of
school lunches, number of desks or textbooks)
Estimated number of beneficiaries
Cost per beneficiary
Evaluator
Observations
E. Sub-project cycle:
Date request received by SIP
Date request assigned to Promotion Unit (Dept. of Health or
Education)
Priority assigned by Promotion Unit
Date of site visit to community
Date request sent to Evaluation Unit
Date of Approval (or other disposition)
Date sub-project sent to Legal Department for initiation of
procurement/contracting process
Outstanding legal requirements to be fulfilled
Date of contract agnature
Date of initiation of sub-project execution
Date of completion
Current Status
Previous Status
Time Elapsed in Each Phase
Observations
F. Supervisions
Amount and Date of Disbursements
Percentage of physical works completed
Delays, reason
Changes in contract amounts or arrangement6
Observations



- 80 -                             ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 1
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
Local               Foreign            Total   X Total
At I r       m        ount     X                 Base Cost
(USS M)             (USS M)
I. SIF Sub-prolects
1. Health
Nutrition
-Child care centers              6.6       92         0.8       a          7.2       7
-School meals/                   8.6       96         0.4       4          8.9       9
child nutrition centers
-Nutrition Dev./Training          1.8      96         0.1       4          1.9       2
Primary Health Care
-Basic health care              1U6.       98         1.2       7         17.7      16
-Immunization campaigns          0.6       27         1.8      73          1.8       2
Sanitation
-Water supply                    5.2       64         3.0     8S           8.2       9
-Basic Sanitation               12.1       98         0.2       2         12.3      18
Sub-total, Health                        61.2      88         6.7       12        57.9      6o
2. Education
Construction and repair             20.4       97         0.6       8         21.0      22
Equipment and desks                   1.8      70         0.6      30          1.8       2
Textbooks                             0.8      69         0.2      S1          0.6       1
Libraries                             0.6      46         0.6      66          1.2       1
Training programs                     2.8      99         0.0       1          2.8       8
Culture                               1.4      94         0.1       6          1.6       1
Subtotal, Education                      26.8      93         2.0       7         28.8      3o
3.  Institutional Support to RAs          0.6     100         0.0       0          0.6       1
Sub-total, SIF Sub-projects                 78.6      90         8.7       10        67.8      91
II. SIF Institutional Development
1. SIF Administration
-Salaries                        4.0      100         0.0       0          4.0       4
-Travel, training, Insurance     0.8       75         0.2      25          1.0       1
-Maintenance                     0.6       40         1.0      60          1.6       2
-Office equipment                0.0        0         0.5     100          0.5       1
-Transportation equipment        0.0        0         0.8     100          0. 8      _
Subtotal, SIF  Administration         6.4      73         2.0      27          7.4       8
2. Technical Assistance
Auditing                              0.1     100         0.0       0          0.1       0
Sub-project Evaluation/Super-
vision Methodologies               0.0      100         0.0       0         0.0        0
Institutional Evaluation              0.0       9         0.0      91          0.0       0
Operational Research                  0.2      90         0.0      10          0.2       0
Monitoring                            0.2      St         0.1      17          0.8       0
Poverty and Demography                0.0     s6          0.0      44          0.0       0
Education and HeaIth                  0.0      82         0.0      68          0.0       0
Basic Sanitation                      0.0      8S         0.0      64          0.0       0
Sub-project Supervision               0.0       0         0.0     100          0.0       0
Information Systems                  0.0       42         0.0      58          0.0       0
Subtotal, Technical Assistance            0.4      60         0.8       40         0.7       1
Subtotal, SIF Institutional Development      6.8      72         2.8       28         8.1       9
III. ESF Trainina Program                    0.0      20         0.2       80         0.2       0
TrTAL                                    84.4      88        11.2       12        95.6     100



ANNEX X
-81 -                              Page 1 of 1
BOLIVIA
SOCIL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
cOo     RAe    Benoteiciry   IDA     IDA/    Othor     TOTAL
Communities         HeaIthO/  Donors
SIF Sub-Prolocto
Hbaltb                          4.9     4.4        6.6        9.2    65.        27.6    57.9
Education                       2.6     2.4        8.6        7.4     0.0       12.8    28.8
Institutional Support tor RAo   0.0    0.1         0.0       0.2      0.0        0.8      0.8
Sub-total, SIF Sub-Projects        7.5    6.9         10.2      16.8     6.8       40.8     07.3
SIF Institutional Dovelormnent
Fixod-ters SIF statt salarieo   0.7    0.0         0.0        1.5     0.0        2.8      5.0
Equlpment, suppieos i vehtclos  1.4     0.0        0.0       0.8      0.0        0.2      2.4
Techneal Assiostnco             0.0     0.0        0.0       0.7      0.0        0.0      0.7
Sub-total, SIF Inst'l. Dovel.      2.1    0.0         0.0        8.0     0.0        8.0      9.1
ESF Trainitn Program               0.0     0.0        0.0       0.2      0.0        0.0      0.2
?STM.                              9.6     6.9       10.2       20.0     5.8       48.6     95.6
S Of Total                        10.X    7.2X       10.7X     20.9X    5.51      46.6e1  10.OX
/ 2ndicates financing to be providod under the Integrated Hoeith D-velopment Project.



- 82-                             ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 2
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Table l DISBURSEMENT FORECAST
IDA Fiscal Year                  Disbursements
and Semester                 Semester Cumulative           2      Semester
(US$ Million)
1991
1st (Jul 90-Dec 90)             0.7         0.7            4         1
2nd (Jan 91-Jun 91)             3.0         3.7           19         2
1992
1st (Jul 91-Dec 91)             4.0         7.7          39          3
2nd (Jan 92-Jun 92)             4.0       11.7           59          4
1993
1st (Jul 92-Dec 92)             4.0       15.7            79         5
2nd (Jan 93-Jun 93)             2.5        18.2           91         6
1994
1st (Jul 93-Dec 93)             1.4       19.6            98         7
2nd (Jan 94-Jun 94)             0.4       20.0          100          8
Closing Date:  June 30, i994.



-83 -                                    ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 2
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Table 2: DISBURSEMENT ALLOCATIONS
(US$ Million)
Category                              Amount                 Percentage
1. Sub-projocto for Health                                90% of disbursements by SIF for
(a) Primary Care                          2,480,000   eligible sub-projects approved
(b) Nutrition                             2,900,000   by December 81, 1991.
(c) Basic Sanitation                      2,900,000
2. Sub-projects for Education                             90% of disbursements by SIF for
(a) Construction of classrooms            6,440,000   eligible sub-projects approved by
and libraries                                     December 31, 1991.
(b) Equipment and text                      580,000
distribution
(c) Training programs                       670,000
3. Sub-projects for                            170,000   90X of disburements by SIF for
Institutional Support for                             eligible sub-projects appproved by
RAs                                                   December 31, 1991.
4. SIF Institutional Development
(a) Salaries, travel,                     1,860,000   IOOX of eligible expenditures.
training for SIF staff
until December 81, 1993.
(b) Equipment, supplies,                    720,000   IOOX of expenditures for Imported
vehicles.                                         goods; 80X of expenditures for
locally produced goods.
(c) Technical Assistance.                   630,000   IOOX of expenditures for
consultants' services, travel
expense, p   diem.
S. Travel, equipment and                       160,000   IOOX of foreign expenditures.
other approved expenses
related to ESF transfer
program.
S. Unallocated                               2.000.000
TOTAL                                20,000,000



- 84 -                                     ANNEX XII
Page 1 of 2
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Table 1: PROCUREMENT LIMITS BY TYPE
Expected     Average Value  Aggregate      Typo Of
Component       Contract Value        Number      of  Contracts    Limit       Procuremnt
(US$)         of  Contracts       (US$)        (USS)
Civil Works     lose than 100,000          120         60,000       6,000,000    Local Shopping
more than 100,000           1S        240,000      3,600,000    LCB
and less than 600,000
Equipment, )    loss than 20,000                                     800,000    Local Shopping
Furniture, }
Vehicles,  }    more than 20,000            50         80,000      4,000,000    LCB
Supplies        a 4 less than 100,000
more than 100,000            1        200,000              -    ICB
Computer        loss than 100,000                           2         120,000    Local Shopping
Equipment
more than 100,000                           1        160,000    Direct
Contracting
r



- 85 -                               ANNEX XII
Page 2 of 2
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Table 2: METHODS OF PROCUREMENT
(US$ Million)
Procurement Procedures         Total
Category of Expenditure            ICB      LCB      Other      NA     Cr,cs a/
Civil Works                          -      15.7      24.4      8.1     48.2
(3.6)    (5.8)              (9.4)
Furniture, Equipment                0.2      9.8       2.7      -       12.7
(-)    (2.2)    (0.7)              (2.9)
Computer Equipment                  -        -         0.3      -        0.3
(0.3)             (0.3)
Vehicles                            _        0.3       _        -        0.3
(0.2)     -                 (0.2)
Books                               -        1.8       0.4      -        2.2
(0.5)    (0.1)              (0.6)
Pharmaceuticals                     0.6      4.3       0.6      -        5.5
(0.2)   (1.1)    (0.2)              (1-5)
Consultant's Services               -       -          0.7      -        0.7
(0.7)             (0.7)
Salaries and Contracts (SIF)        -        -        -        5.0       5.0
(1.5)    (1.5)
Personnel, operating cLstF           _       _         -      14.6      14.6
(under sub-projects)                                         (2.2)    (2.2)
Other                               -        -         -        6.1      6.1
(0.7)    (0.7)
Total Project Costs                 0.8    31.9       29.1    33.8      95.6
(0.2)   (7.6)    (7.8)   (4.4)   (20.0)
Note: Numbers in parenthesis reLlect IDA financing.
a/ Total represents total estimated costs per category including price
and physical contingencies.



- 86 -                       ANNEX XIII
Page 1 of 2
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in The Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies in the Sectors
A.1   "Aspectos Hist6ricos Econ6micos - Financieros de la Salud y
la Educaci6n y su Relaci6n con la Participaci6n del Fondo
Social de Emergencia," Fondo Social de Emergencia, Noviembre
de 1989.
A.2   "Fondo Social de Emergencia, Estadisticas Basicas, Datos
Elaborados al 31 de Octubre de 1989," Fondo Social de
Emergencia, Noviembre de 1989.
A.3   "Prioridades de la Nueva Politica Educativa del Gobierno de
Unidad Nacional," Ministerio de Educaci6n y Cultura,
December, 1989.
A.4   "Politicas de Edificaciones Escolares, Gesti6n: 1989-1993,
-Ministerio de Educaci6n y Cultura - Consejo Nacional de
Edificaciones Escolares, Noviembre de 1989.
A.5   "Plan Nacional de Supervivencia - Desarrollo Infantil y
Salud Materna," Ministerio de Prevenci6n Social y Salud
Pdblica, Noviembre de 1989.
B. Selected Documents and Reports Relating to the Project
B.1   Decreto Supremo No. 22407, January 11, 1990, as amended by
Decreto Supremo No. 22452, March 8, 1990.
B.2   Draft Reglamento del SIF, to be approved by the
Administrative Council.
B.3   Manual de Promoci6n, to be approved by the Administrative
Council.
B.4   Manual de Evaluaci6n, to be approved by the Administrative
Council.
B.5   Manual de Seguimiento, to be approved by the Administrative
Council.
B.6   Manual de Administraci6n, to be approved by the
Administrative Council.
B.7   Manual de Informaci6n, to be approved by the Administrative
Council.
B.8   Programaci6n SIF, 1990.



- 87 -                        ANNEX XIII
Page 2 of 2
C. Selected Working Papers
C.1   'The Role of NGOs in the Health Sector in Bolivia',
J. VanDomelen, March, 1989.
C.2   'The Financing of the Health Sector in Bolivia", M. Grosh,
March, 1989.
C.3   'Education Sector Expenditure Review", D. Newlon,
Jenuary, 1989.
C.4   'Sector Educaci6n", Proyecto EMSO/Regional, Documento No. 1,
Agosto, 1989.
C.5   'Propuestas Sectoriales: Salud, Educaci6n e Infraestructura
Vial," Proyecto EMSO/Regional, Documento No. 2, 1989.
C.6   'Overview Paper on Bolivian Primary Education%, G. Thiesen,
December, 1988.
C.7   Project Costs.



IBRD 2051t
.,    /4(tFM   l
B RA Z IL __"                                                                      BLI VI A
ROADS:
ohR,Eun0 !               /                     0g d                                                                              Saeondr
.   _.    ,pSonloRos1  GF1no 0           o GcorOM,r,                                             ___--------- Tr,ook,
, _ ,  , _,b Mtwb o   ';; H o                                                   Fcrry Unbr
t.wzrP ANDQ-                            \                                                                               R=i-er
Ncronal Capitol
_12.                        Q c 0                           2       N ,                                                      -D         DeprtrrrrD t Boundaries
,; -t                                                                  -   l t   Y5t_  _   -Intrnalono. i .6ndonien
osocli,                .           9S        tO* 0                    ti                                         Altipiono
A LeLe R)   sstlMssnJ;qub    CE5t7ffi>h_                               VolleyJ
7. ~   ~~        ~       ~      ~~      ~~~~~~ ,f0 cofYMiodn    r        s                               lowlondJ
}       [    ,                   .^yBZ ~~~~~~Oorewn,O    >..,&
P  E  R  U                                               S h..s /   Jrc '.-9tArt               8wiO                         >
L uerto Sowne -4Rw5 <%W1 F Rsonrw   B      N    I                                                 (          o>   50   iou   "Is  20,0   200
To       \       \%pCuu,Ooon oMau     \                       rpcwr    
GW  ,L)\JX          - _C oro,X|  Mn                 OE       IC          rmConnB .A Z  
P A~~~~~~~~~~c 
79_ CSuonr                      COH'?A% rc   Si                                                                                           ..-cOF 7
C  %qooayo GSrncr CYeAMEALR      ---'                         S  A      NXBA CRUZ                             ZAI
-  s' U U N   ' . h   ru o   n i6 t </PE                                         R      RG U    Z   Y         I
AC~~0C      I koodoP  ~~~~e,o~~               SMITA CRU                                        p2
,            \                      j<sG;t            %         YGGmka ra/ l              /          PARAGUAY                                      2
d . N        r                                                                              wi
T0A0SI1          YOOuiba AOOrar Rc E     I   N   A      M .      AARAA  G  U  AA
SAL PA1                       T6EAiaym07|6\                                                                                 IEI
00  O4 OGN.                                    P..,.                                                                            LA0 BRAZN    Y



