Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15721
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
(_   2127-BO)
ct 'r1
June 12, 1996
Human and Social Development Group
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit=Boliviano (Bs)
Bs 1.00 = US$.20
US$ 1.00 = Bs 5.07
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CORDES              Regional Development Corporations (Corporaci6n Regional de Desarrollo)
ESF                 Emergency Social Fund (Fondo Social de Emergencia)
GOB                 Government of Bolivia (Gobierno de Bolivia)
IDA                 International Development Association
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
INE                 National Statistical Institute (Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas)
LD                  Decentralization Law (Ley de Descentralizacion)
MDH                 Human Development Ministry (Ministerio de Desarrollo Humano)
MoP                 Ministry of the Presidency (Ministerio de la Presidencia)
MPSSP               Ministry of Social Welfare and Public Health (Ministerio de Previsi6n
Social y Salud P1`blica)
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization (Organizaci6n No-Gubernamental)
ONAMFA              National Organization of Minors, Women and the Family (Organismo
Nacional del Menor, Mujer, y Familia)
OPEC                Fund of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
OTB                 Grassroots Territorial Organization (Organizaci6n Territorial de Base)
PIDI                Integrated Child Development Project (Proyecto Integral de Desarrollo
Infantil)
PPL                 Popular Participation Law (Ley de Participacion Popular)
PROISS              Integrated Health Development Project (Proyecto Intregral de Servicios de
Salud)
PROSABAR            Rural Basic Sanitation Project (Proyecto de Saneamiento Basico Rural)
RA                  Requesting Agency
SIDA                Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
SIF                 Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversi6n Social)
SNE                 National Secretariat of Education (Secretaria Nacional de Educaci6n)
SNS                 National Secretariat of Health (Secretaria Nacional de Salud)
SRS                 Regional Secretariat of Health (Secretaria Regional de Salud)
SOE                 Statement of Expenditure
TGN                 National Treasury (Tesoro General de la Naci6n)
UDAPSO              Social Policy Analysis Unit (Unidad de Analisis de Politicas Sociales)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE .....................................................................                                                                                                  i
EVALUATION   SUMMARY                                                                            ....................................................................... ii
PART L PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ......................................................... 1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION .......................................................................1I
AcHIEvEMENT oF PRoJECT  OBJECTIvES ........................................................................2
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .........................................2
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ........................................................................5
ASSOCIATION PERFORMANCE ........................................................................6
BORROWER PERFORMANCE ........................................................................7
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ........................................................................8
CURRENT AND FUTURE OPERATIONS .......................................8.................................8
KEY LESSONS LEARNED ........................................9
PART IL STATISTICAL ANNEXES .......................................                                                                                                         10
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .......................................                                                                                                     10
TABLE 2: RE LATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .......................................                                                                                                12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .......................................                                                                                                          12
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIvE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ...................................... 12
TABLE S: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................................................... 13
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ....................................................................... 16
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .......................................................................                                                                17
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS .....................................................                                                                                               18
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING .......................................................................                                                                         18
TABLE SC: PROJECT FINANCING BY FINANCIER .......................................................................                                                            19
TABLE SD: CREDIT FINANCING BY CATEGORY .......................................................................                                                             20
TABLE 8E: INVESTMENT SUBPROJECTS DIRECTED AT WOMEN ............................................................. 24
TABLE 8F: NGO  PARTICIPATION IN SUBPROJECTS .......................................................................                                                          25
TABLE SG: SUBPRojECT FINANCING BY TYPE .......................................................................                                                             26
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .......................................................................                                                               27
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .......................................................................    27
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .................................................. 28
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF WEEKS .....................................................                                                                                28
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ........................................................                                                                                30
APPENDICES ........................................................                                                                                                         31
A. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION ........................................................                                                                                            31
B. THERE ARE NO CONTRIBUTIONS BY COFINANCIERS ........................................................ 31
C. MISCELLANEOUS APPENDICES ........................................................                                                                                       31
D. MAP ....                                                               .......................................................................................... 31
Tlhis document has a restricted distribution and may be uscd by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banlk authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2127-BO)
PREFACE
This is the Inplementation Completion Report (ICR) for the First Social Investment Fund
Project (SIF), for which Credit 2127-BO in the amnount of SDR 15.1 million (at appraisal US$20.0
million equivalent) was approved on April 24, 1990 and made effective on December 20, 1990.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1995 after an extension of one year. It was fully disbursed and
the last disbursement was in September 1995. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the
Netherlands (NLG 3.5 million), OPEC (US$3.0 million), Sweden (SEK 26 million), and
Switzerland (CHF 5.9 million).
The ICR was prepared by Jennifer Leach of the Social Sectors Unit - La Paz, Human
Resources Division of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office and reviewed by the
donors, Constance Corbett, Deborah Bateman, Susan Goldmark, Maria Victoria Lister and
Robert Crown, Project Advisor. The Borrower prepared a separate report which is included as an
appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit
Agreement and Amendments, supervision reports, the mid-term review, correspondence between
the Association and the Borrower, interviews with SIF staff, SIF reports, and internal Association
memoranda. As the report was prepared by staff in the Resident Mission, there was no special
ICR mission.






ii
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2127-BO)
BOLIVIA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    This was the first IDA-assisted social investment fund, building on the Bolivian experience
with the Emergency Social Fund (ESF). It was appraised in November 1989, approved by the
Board on April 24, 1990, and declared effective on December 20, 1990. At the time of appraisal,
total project costs were estimated at US$95.6 million equivalent, of which US$20.0 million was
financed by an IDA credit, with the balance financed through cofinancing institutions as well as
national governnent, community, and Requesting Agency (RA) counterpart. This project required
4.5 years for completion, which is slightly longer than the originally anticipated 3.5 years. The
Credit was closed on June 30, 1995. The final disbursement was effected in September 1995 or 3
months after Credit closing, on an exceptional basis due to delays encountered in making final
payments to contractors. In sum, the project was basically implemented as planned, albeit with
some alterations.
Project Objectives
ii.    Obiectives: The principal objective of the Social Investment Fund (SIF) project was to
reduce poverty through improving the coverage and quality of services in health and education
through support to the initial phase (1990 through 1993) of the SIF program. These objectives
would be pursued by: (a) devolving increased responsibility to local governments and NGOs;
(b) shifting priorities towards basic and preventive health care and towards primary education;
(c) developing mechanisms to improve the targeting of social programs to the poor; and
(d) introducing procedures to facilitate coordination among the various actors in the social sectors.
Owing to the programmatic nature of the project, there were no ex ante targets for the number of
subprojects.
iii.    Content: In order to attain these objectives, the project included three basic components:
(a) SIF Subprojects, including financing for health, education, and institutional support for public
and private RAs; (b) SIF Institutional Development, including support for SIF administration,
improvement of an information system and database, and consultants' services to assist in the
development and improvement of SIF's financial management and operational capacity; and (c) a
training program (the ESF Training Program), to be carried out by the ESF before its closing, to
familiarize other public agencies with ESF's systems for information management used in
subproject appraisal and supervision.
iv.    Achievements: As indicated by Table 1 in the Statistical Annex, the overall outcome of the
project was rated satisfactory in every major area. The subproject component of the Project has
successfully transferred increased responsibility to local governments, NGOs, and beneficiary
communities. SIF has provided a vital channel for both GOB resources and international funds to
target social investment to basic healthcare and primary education. As line ministries (now



iii
secretariats) have strengthened, SIF's coordination with them has evolved and improved. SIF's
targeting procedures have also evolved, adapting to the availability of new information,
demographic changes, the legal framework and new demands.
Implementation Experience and Results
v.     Results: From 1991-1995, SIF financed a total of 1,449 subprojects of which 391 have
been completed. The total cost of these subprojects is about US$58 million. The projects entailed
a total of 4,745 contracts which correspond to the ESF definition of projects. Table 8C shows the
distribution of subprojects by type of investment. About US$4.6 million has been spent on
projects directed specifically at women, benefitting about 87,000 women through 58 projects (see
Table 8E). The internal SIF evaluations have generally found subproject quality to be good; an
external evaluation of the quality of SIF subprojects is being carried out. The initial estimates for
distribution among project categories were not intended to be targets. Estimates were made on the
basis of ESF experience, with the intention that SIF should identify needs and assign resources
accordingly. Deviations from early estimates should therefore not be interpreted as an
overshooting or failure to meet targets.
vi.    Overall, SIF subprojects have been generally successful in reaching the poorest groups,
although basic sanitation subprojects have been targeted to peri-urban areas rather than the poorest
rural areas. The project's two other components have had variable impacts: while SIF operational
capacity has evolved since the beginning of the project, SIF's information and financial
management systems are inadequate. The third component of the project, the ESF Training
Program (0.002 percent of total project cost; 0.02 percent of IDA financing), was to be carried out
by ESF before its closing, but was only partially implemented. IDA and the SIF agreed to
reallocate the funds originally destined for this component. Project implementation is therefore
rated as satisfactory.
vii.    SIF Institutional Sustainabilitv. SIF began as a short- to medium-term institution without
clear policy guidelines provided by the line ministries (now secretariats). SIF has now become
more institutionalized within the GOB as one of the government's primary vehicles for the
provision of social infrastructure within a much stronger normative framework provided by the
secretariats. SIF's sustainability as an institution depends on the successful implementation of a
plan to become self-sufficient in the financing of its recurrent administrative costs through
increased municipal contributions to SIF, a portion of which will be used for SIF operating costs.
However, whether or not SIF should become a permanent part of the institutional framework must
be analyzed in light of the GOB's future strategy for social investment, its ability to finance (and/or
obtain financing for) SIF operations and the integration of SIF into the policy making framework.
Some line sector authorities (notably the SNE) do not envision a role for the central ministerial
authority in the execution of infrastructure investmnent. Indeed, since the Popular Participation
Law (PPL) and the Decentralization Law (LD) transferred ownership of social sector
infrastructure to the municipalities, along with the responsibility for future investmnent, a direct role
of the central, normative authorities with respect to such investrnents appears inappropriate.
However, as long as the central Government retains responsibility for operating costs (schools,
health centers), the central authorities must provide guidance with respect to new construction.
Within this framework the SIF is an effective tool to articulate central Government policies with
local government strategies and implementation plans. Line ministries lack the installed capacity to
carry out these functions and are developing their capacities in line with their policy making role.
The SIF therefore fills a gap in the execution of GOB policies.



iv
viii.   Subproject Sustainability. The prospects for the long-term sustainability of SIF
subprojects are generally encouraging, given the changes introduced through the PPL. SIF's use of
the Participative Planning methodology for subproject identification and development ensures
beneficiary community involvement from the beginning of the subproject cycle and has improved
targeting. Additionally, the PPL transfers both resources and responsibility for building and
maintaining social infrastructure to the municipalities. While the framework and resources exist to
make subproject sustainability likely, the lack of institutional and community training programs in
some projects calls into question the sustainability of some early SIF subprojects.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
ix.    SIF was designed as a process, as an experiment, rather than as a blueprint project. This
process and the flexibility required to carry it out is at the heart of SIF's experience, as well as at
the heart of IDA's experience with SIF. The project design of the SAR and the Credit Agreement
were based on ESF's experience; SIF and IDA thereafter constantly adjusted the SIF to respond to
newly identified needs, new demands, new information. While SIF has been generally successful in
extending the coverage and quality of services in education and health, some of their administrative
systems could be improved, as could their record in providing training for some of their investment
subprojects. On the basis of the above, SIF is rated as satisfactory. The lessons of SIF are already
incorporated into the second SIF credit, and will be taken into account in the consideration of the
Government's request for a third SIF credit.
1     The key lessons learned from SIF's experience may be summarized as follows:
*    the absence of strong sector policies in education, health and basic sanitation affected SIF
operations, as has the lack of a defined role for SIF within more defined policies; it is
important to develop and maintain strong links to sector policy, to other related projects
(e.g., PROISS, PROSABAR), and define SIF's role within this framework;
*     SIF experience has demonstrated that a high level of community participation in all steps
of subproject preparation increases the chance of subproject success and sustainability; it
is vital to provide mechanisms for real community participation throughout the subproject
cycle, as well as the appropriate training;
*    by making SIF's design flexible, it has been possible to experiment and undertake
innovative approaches, adjusting operations over time, shifting program focus, responding
to new demands, and reevaluating SIF's ability to assume greater responsibilities; future
SIF operations should similarly allow for flexibility, creativity, and learning within the
institution;
*    the process-based nature of SIF's design requires a high level of consultation between the
Borrower and IDA; given the level and cost of these supervision requirements, IDA should
include with social funds an arrangement for the project to contract consultant specialists
to carry out review on all but a small fraction of contracts;
*    while SIF has been considering ways to reduce its administrative costs, it is vital to find a
proper measure of administrative efficiency that does not discourage the institution from
undertaking innovative projects, attempting more complex interventions, emphasizing



v
social participation in subprojects, and devoting the resources necessary to ensure the
quality and sustainability of the project;
SIF's information system, adapted from the ESF, was not, in hindsight, the most
appropriate type of system for the SIF, nor was it able to successfully expand to keep pace
with SIF's type or level of investment; it is vital to ensure that the accounting and
information systems have the capacity to expand to meet projected investment levels, to
provide extensive training in the use of the systems, and to regularly review the
performance of the systems and make adjustments accordingly.
*    recent SIF experience has shown that the institution is able to effectively assist in the
implementation of central government policies, channel investment in an integrated way,
and provide support to local authorities in assuming their roles under decentralization; in
the context of the recently-introduced PPL and LD, along with the Education Reform and
the future Health Reform, it is vital to assure that there is an institution sustainable over
the long term that can carry out the functions necessary to promote the proper
implementation of the policies.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2127-BO)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Objectives and Description
1.    Project Objectives: The principal objective of the Social Investmnent Fund (SIF) project
was to reduce poverty through improving the coverage and quality of services in health and
education through support to the initial phase (1990 through 1993) of the SIF program. Those
objectives would be pursued by: (a) devolving increased responsibility to local governments and
non-governmental organizations (NGOs); (b) shifting priorities towards basic and preventive health
care and towards primary education; (c) developing mechanisms to improve the targeting of social
programs to the poor; and (d) introducing procedures to facilitate coordination among the various
actors in the social sectors. Owing to the programmatic nature of the project, there were no ex
ante targets for the number of subprojects.
2.    Project Components: In order to attain these objectives, the project included three basic
components: (a) SIF Subprojects, including financing for health, education, and institutional
support for public and private RAs; (b) SIF Institutional Development, including support for SIF
administration, improvement of an information system and database, and consultants' services to
assist in the development and improvement of SIF's financial management and operational
capacity; and (c) a training program (the ESF Training Program), to be carried out by the ESF
before its closing, to familiarize other public agencies with ESF's systems for information
management used in subproject appraisal and supervision.
3 .    Linkage with Sector Strategies: Under the umbrella of the International Development
Association's (IDA) overall strategy for support to the Government of Bolivia's (GOB) objective
of laying the basis for sustained economic growth and improving the living conditions of the bulk
of the population, IDA's strategy for assistance in the social sectors is focused on long-term
institutional strengthening, development of appropriate sector policies and strategies, concentration
of resources on primary health and education, and extension of coverage through financing for both
public and private agencies. As part of this strategy, IDA has financed two credits for the ESF
(nearly US$36 million in total), current credits for the Integrated Health Development Project
(PROISS) (US$20 million), the Education Reform Project (US$40 million), the Integrated Child
Development Project (PIDI) (US$50 million), the Rural Basic Sanitation Project (PROSABAR)
(US$20 million), as well as a second SIF (US$40 million). SIF is an integral part of the GOB's
actions developed to fulfill its broad social and economic objectives, and complements the goals of
the above-mentioned projects. SIF helps to assure effective translation of GOB social policies into
investment and community level actions, through its strong emphasis on community participation
and its specific mandate to identify and help satisfy the basic needs of the poorest segments of the
population.



2
Achievement of Project Objectives
4.     As indicated by Table 1 in the Statistical Annexes, the overall outcome of the project was
rated satisfactory in every major area. In April 1994 the Popular Participation Law (PPL) was
passed, transferring both resources and responsibility for building and maintaining social
infrastructure from the national government to the municipalities, enhancing community
participation in the decision mnaking process via grassroots territorial organizations (OTBs). With
the promulgation of the PPL and the Decentralization Law (LD), SIF's subproject component has
successfully transferred increased responsibility to local governments, NGOs, and beneficiary
communities. SIF has provided a vital channel for GOB resources and international funds for
investment in basic health care and primary education. As line ministries (now secretariats) have
strengthened, SIF's coordination role has evolved. SIF was set up, at least in part, because of the
ministries' weakness in the area of social investment; early coordination efforts were also
hampered by those weaknesses. In 1993, however, the GOB decided that the line ministries would
now fulfill a normative role in the social sectors. With this, the SIF has become the primary arm of
Government investment in facilities and in transferring policy into action. SIF's ability to
coordinate with National Secretariat of Education (SNE) and the National Health Secretariat
(SNS) has, in fact, improved with SIF's move back to the Ministry of the Presidency (MoP) which
has facilitated coordination through the resulting increase in S]F's status within the Government,
and by allowing for better coordination among Bolivia's various investment funds. SIF's targeting
procedures have likewise evolved, adapting to the availability of new information, demographic
changes, the legal framework, and new demands.
5.     The project's other two components have had variable impacts. SIF's operational capacity
has evolved since the beginning of the project with SIF's operational staff testing innovative
programs and adjusting the ongoing program in light of experience. On the other hand, despite
several consultancies, SIF's information and financial management systems are inadequate in view
of SIF's complex financing plan and volume of disbursements. Measures are currently being taken
to improve and decentralize SIF's infonnation system. The final component of the project, the
ESF Training Program, was to be carried out by ESF before its closing but was only partially
implemented. The ESF Training Program, included in the SIF at the GOB's insistence, was to
provide training to RAs in ESF's system for information management used in subproject appraisal
and supervision. Since RAs knew that SIF was coming on line to replace ESF, demand for ESF
training never materialized.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
6.     Subprojects: From 1991-1995, SIF financed a total of 1,449 subprojects of which 391
have been completed. The total cost of these subprojects is about US$58 million. The projects
entailed a total of 4,745 contracts which correspond to the ESF definition of projects. Table 8C
shows the distribution of subprojects by type of investment. About US$4.6 million has been spent
on projects directed specifically at women, benefitting about 87,000 women through 58 projects
(see Table 8E). Internal SIF evaluations have generally found subproject quality to be good; an
external evaluation of the quality of SIF subprojects is being carried out. The initial estimates for
distribution among project categories were not intended to be targets. Estimates were made on the
basis of ESF experience, with the intention that SIF should identify needs and assign resources
accordingly. Deviations from early estimates should therefore not be interpreted as an
overshooting or failure to meet targets.



3
7.     Health: Analysis of the base line data collected for SIF's impact evaluation notes that,
prior to SIF intervention, health centers were characterized by poor-quality infrastructure,
inadequate supply of medication and equipment, and a lack of electricity and water supply. In
terms of demand for health services, 47 percent of the poorest quartile visited a health center, 9
percent visited a hospital, and the remaining 38 percent did not utilize public health centers at all.
As shown in Table 8G, SIF invested about US$17.9 million in health subprojects, benefiting about
2.6 million people. The Social Policy Analysis Unit (UDAPSO) recently carried out a Swedish-
financed study of beneficiaries' perceptions of SIF interventions. According to the sample taken,
80 percent of completed health facilities have received equipment, furniture, and medications;
however, no training had been carried out at any of the centers. A recent SIF evaluation notes
similar trends: SIF health centers have experienced an increase in consultations; pre-natal care
consultations have increased, and although the number of attended childbirths in the centers has
remained almost the same, there has been a small increase in the number of attended childbirths in
the home. On balance, coverage in health has improved and there are some positive indicators of
improved quality of services. While there is room for improvement-provision of training, for
example-this aspect of the development objectives has been fulfilled.
8.     Water Supply and Basic Sanitation: While these subprojects fall generally within the
category of health, they have evolved into a major portion of the SIF portfolio. SIF invested about
US$18.8 million in this area, benefiting about 450,000 people. The base line analysis shows that
most SIF investments in water supply and sanitation were planned for periurban areas-to take
advantage of economies of scale-while most of the poorest population live in rural areas. As
recent rural migrants have concentrated in periurban areas, these subprojects have reached large
numbers of relatively poor who have a demonstrated need: 56 percent have no toilet facilities, and
less than 50 percent have access to piped water. An internal SIF study has demonstrated some
underutilization of water and sanitation infrastructure, caused by a variety of factors including
climate, water consumption, and hygiene habits. While the study notes a lack of training in the
administration, use, and maintenance of these facilities, it also notes that beneficiaries within the
sample group almost universally rate the water supplied by SIF-financed infrastructure as far
superior to water provided previously. On balance, SIF's investments in water supply and basic
sanitation have significantly improved coverage and there are indicators of improved quality.
While training programs need to be further developed and more widely implemented, this aspect of
the development objectives has been fulfilled.
9.     Education: The bulk of SIF's education disbursements have been spent in formal
education, mainly in infrastructure. SIF's overall investment in education was about US$25.6
million, benefiting about 1.7 million people; investment in formal education was US$18.4 million,
benefiting about 257,000 people. The base line analysis notes that a number of the schools within
the sample were missing key items, including books and desks. UDAPSO's report notes that
communities in which SIF has financed school construction feel that SIF's intervention has resulted
in greater regularity in school attendance and a greater interest in studying on the part of students.
10.   In addition to formal education investments, SIF financed innovative programs in non-
formal education. For such programs, SIF financing generally covers the necessary infrastructure,
equipment. ftrniture, supplies, and some portion of administrative costs for up to 18 months. As
shown in Table 8G, SIF has invested about US$7.2 million in non-formal education, benefiting 1.4
mnillion people. Fiftv-two percent of these non-formal education projects were targeted specifically
to wonmen (see Table 8E). Non-fonnal education programs include rural boarding facilities in non-
Spanish-speaking areas; training programs targeted to indigenous women with little education;
productive training focusing on productive techniques, natural resource management, food



4
conservation; and training for community trainers. NGOs have generally been the RA and have
implemented the programs. This portion of the development objectives has been fulfilled: SIF
investments expanded the capacity of infrastructure and undertook innovative projects to expand
access. The positive reactions of beneficiaries also indicate that quality of educational services
have also improved.
11.   Institutional Support for RAs: As conceived in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the
objective of this component was to encourage RAs, mainly NGOs, to extend their coverage to
unserved areas by financing both facility and 18 months of operating expenses to cover costs of
moving into those areas. This component was included in an attempt to improve outreach to the
poorest areas in an innovative way. SIF never adequately promoted this component as designed,
over time losing touch with its initial purpose. Instead, SIF used training programs to work with
communities and NGOs in order to increase their institutional capacity. While SIF did not fulfill
the original intent of this component, it did transform the component in response to existing
demands. Rather than focusing on expanding RA coverage, SIF focused on reinforcing RAs,
improving both their quality and efficiency. In this way, SIF satisfactorily fulfilled this portion of
the development objectives, devolving greater responsibility to local governments and NGOs.
12.    SIF Institutional Development: The Credit and related cofinancing have supported the
recurrent expenses of SIF's administration, which has developed into a technically qualified semi-
autonomous government institution with the intention of permanence. The continuity of central and
regional qualified technical staff, despite high turnover in some departments over the course of SIF,
has been a key factor in the development of SIF's national reputation and in the evolution of the
institution. It is likely that SIF salaries, while relatively high in comparison to the local public
labor market, have contributed to this continuity.
13.   A common criticism of SIF has been that its administrative costs appear to be high
compared to the SAR estimate of 4 percent which, in retrospect, was unrealistic. The SAR
estimate was based on the experience of the ESF, an institution created for the purpose of
disbursing quickly. In contrast to the ESF, the SIF model requires a number of costly elements:
targeting designed to reach the poorest groups, extensive project identification and evaluation,
supervision, monitoring, and impact evaluation. These are inputs that work to ensure quality of
product rather than speed of implementation, although over time these elements provide feedback
that can help to streamline SIF's processes. By the commonly used measure of administrative
efficiency, relating administrative costs to total disbursements, SIF's average administrative cost
between 1992-1995 was about 15 percent. In view of SIF's development objectives, this may lead
to perverse incentives. Since administrative costs should certainly be kept lean and ways found to
reduce them, overemphasis on this measurement and insistence on reduction of administrative costs
to some theoretical level with respect to disbursements may discourage SIF from undertaking
small-scale, supervision-intensive programs in favor of fast-disbursing, larger infrastructure
projects which require less supervision resources. This concern notwithstanding, SIF was urged to
find ways to reduce administrative costs to the absolute minimum.
14.   From early on, SIF was mindful of the need to increase efficiency and streamline its
processes. The seven reorganizations undertaken during the six-year life of the SIF were all driven
by this objective. While some disruption in SIF operations resulted from the reorganizations, it is
important to note that there was relatively little turnover in staff caused by the reorganizations.
Several also involved decentralization-or more properly, deconcentration-of functions to
provide greater responsiveness to beneficiaries. While decision making power delegated to offices
outside of La Paz is still limited, subproject evaluation functions will soon be moved to the regions.



S
In addition, SIF is examining the feasibility of delegating decision making authority to regional
chiefs, within certain parameters.
15.    SIF's establishment of adequate information and financial management systems has been
delayed, despite various consultancies to support these aspects of SIF management. Information
retrieval and manipulation are slow, cumbersome and require much manual cross-checking to
ensure accuracy of data. These bottlenecks have recently been reflected in delays in SIF's audit
reporting. SIF has recently added a monitoring system, however, that will aid in retrieval of
information related to subprojects, along with a new and decentralized information system that is
due to be installed no later than June 1996. Furthermore, SIF is working to improve its feedback
and oversight functions. On balance, SIF's Institutional Development component has been
adequate to support the attainment of SIF's development objectives.
16.   Participation and Targeting: SIF's move toward decentralization preceded any
governmental action in this regard by several years, although the PPL still signified a number of
changes for the SIF. Early in SIF, subprojects were targeted to priority areas on the basis of
certain indicators of nutrition, infant mortality, and illiteracy in rural areas; in peri-urban areas, the
above indicators were used, plus the absence of water and electricity services. Even before the
PPL, SIF began using a "Participative Planning" methodology for targeting, through which
municipalities-with NGO, community, and SIF participation-identify needs and make priorities
for social investment. SIF crosses this information with the 1992 Poverty Map, so that the poorer
municipalities are sought out, with a regional balance to investment. This adaptation of SIF's
targeting methodology is part of the ongoing evolution of the SIF in response to better or different
information. This portion of the development objectives is therefore met.
Project Sustainability
17.    Subproiect Sustainabilitv. The prospects for the long-tern sustainability of recent SIF
subprojects are generally encouraging, given the changes introduced through the PPL and LD.
SIF's use of the Participative Planning methodology for subproject identification and development
ensures beneficiary community involvement from the beginning of the subproject cycle.
Additionally, the PPL transfers both resources and responsibility for building and maintaining
social infrastructure to municipalities. Maintaining the current level of community involvement in
the development, construction, and maintenance of subprojects is the best way to ensure the
sustainability of those projects.
18.   While the framework and resources exist to make subproject sustainability likely, the lack
of institutional and community training programs in some subprojects calls into question the
sustainability of some early SIF subprojects. Training in the use, administration, and maintenance
of health and basic sanitation subprojects was not provided as planned under SIF. To date, only
approximately 10 percent of basic sanitation/potable water projects have received institutional or
community training in administration, operation, or maintenance of the system; there has as yet
been no institutional or community training given at any of SIF's health posts. While future
sanitation projects will receive training through the PROSABAR, SIF must develop a training plan
for previously constructed systems. The lack of training for these older subprojects jeopardizes
their chances for sustainability unless remedial actions are taken in the immediate future. Schools,
however, may benefit greatly from the community ownership that helps guarantee the sustainability
of newer projects.



6
19.   With respect to non-infrastructure subprojects, including mainly training programs in non-
formal education, NGOs have carried out many of these subprojects and have assumed
responsibility for their sustainability (see Table 8F). These projects amount to about 111 projects
with a value of about US$7.2 million, or 12 percent of the value of all projects. During
identification and evaluation of a subproject, SIF carries out an assessment of NGO institutional
capacity, in an effort to ensure that it will be able to maintain the project after SIF involvement has
concluded. Additionally, as in all its projects, SIF requires financial guarantees to ensure that the
NGO will indeed carry out the project. Now, under the PPL, the communities' involvement is an
added assurance of NGO project maintenance.
20.    SIF Institutional Sustainability. SIF began as a short- to medium-term institution without
clear policy guidelines provided by the line ministries (now secretariats). SIF has now become
more institutionalized within the GOB as one of the government's primary vehicles for the
provision of social infrastructure within a much stronger normative framework provided by the
secretariats. However, whether or not SIF should become a permanent part of the institutional
framework must be analyzed in light of the GOB's future strategy for social investment, its ability
to finance (and/or obtain financing for) SIF operations and the integration of SIF into the policy
making framework. Some line sector authorities (notably the SNE) do not envision a role for the
central ministerial authority in the execution of infrastructure investment. Indeed, since the PPL
and the LD transferred ownership of social sector infrastructure to the municipalities, along with
the responsibility for future investment, a direct role of the central, normative authorities with
respect to such investments appears inappropriate. However, as long as the central Government
retains responsibility for operating costs (schools, health centers), the central authorities must
provide guidance with respect to new construction. Within this framework the SIF is an effective
tool to articulate central Government policies with local government strategies and implementation
plans. Line ministries lack the installed capacity to carry out these functions and are developing
their capacities in line with their policy making role. The SIF therefore fills a gap in the execution
of GOB policies.
21.    Like its predecessor, SIF was created to channel mainly foreign financing to social
investments. While discussions about incorporating SIF personnel into the Civil Service were
opened under the second SIF credit, the institution remains almost entirely dependent on external
financing. SIF has, however, begun implementing a plan to become self-sufficient in the financing
of its recurrent administrative costs by 1997, through increasing municipal counterpart for
subprojects and directing a percentage of that contribution to SIF operating expenses. Given that
these costs are financed by IDA on a declining percentage (soon to reach zero), and given the
unlikelihood that the National Treasury will be able to assume full responsibility for such costs,
SIF's sustainability as an institution will depend on successful implementation of this plan. At this
date, however, the plan is still too new to judge its performance. Additionally, SIF's ability to
attract outside financing will hinge on its ability to complete a strong impact evaluation in the
short-term. The base line data have been analyzed, and UDAPSO has recently submitted a plan
for the first follow-up survey to be carried out by 1997. In the meantime, SIF's Policy and
Strategy Division has been carrying out in-depth studies of subproject status and performance,
which are useful to view subproject quality, outcomes and shorter-term impact.
Association Performance
22.    The total time allocation on pre-board activities was 8.2 staff weeks (SW) during the FY
89-90 period, well below the Bank-wide average for project preparation. The average time
allocated to supervision from both headquarters and the field was 45.4 SW per year, including pre-



7
board and completion activities (as compared to a LAC's average of 19.5 in social projects), about
15 percent of which was related to the administration and supervision of cofinancing related to the
Credit. SIF acted as a magnet for attracting cofinancing from a number of bilateral donors,
additional support crucial for the development of the SIF. As reflected in the amount of time
required for supervision and administration of these cofinancing arrangements, the demands on
IDA were fairly high, although the benefits were worth the cost.
23.   The overall cost of supervision was well below the Bank-wide average: the average
supervision cost for SIF was US$95,170 per year, as compared to the Bank-wide average cost of
social sector supervision of US$277,300 per year. On average, one supervision mission per year
was carried out by the task manager with the support of two long-term consultants in economics.
The focus of early supervision missions was on development of selection criteria for subprojects,
types of programs, and SIF procedures. Owing to public agencies' lack of experience in carrying
out bidding procedures, significant time was spent early on to develop procedures. The prevailing
theme of supervision missions was the evolution of the institution, incorporating the lessons of
experience back into project implementation.
24.   It must be remembered that the Bolivian SIF was the first of its kind and was meant to be
an experiment whose development was a learning process, not a blueprint project. This approach
had certain costs, discussed below, stemming from a need for a high degree of project supervision.
This approach also required flexibility from IDA in supervision. In order for SIF to adequately
fulfill its development objectives in the face of a changing framework and new demands, both SIF
and IDA had to be flexible. IDA was consistently flexible in response to demands for innovative
programs, in encouraging SIF to continue to improve its efficiency, in supporting SIF efforts to
adjust to the PPL and LD, and responsive in helping SIF identify problems and solutions.
25. The process-based approach of the SIF had a number of implications for IDA. While time
spend on project preparation was well below the Bank average, this, along with the project's need
for constant adjustment and feedback required higher-than-average supervision costs. IDA
provided substantial substantive and procedural input, required not only by the nature of the
project but also by SIF's initial lack of experience with both IDA procedures and procurement
procedures. The volume of small projects and contracts involved in social investment funds lead to
unacceptably high supervision requirements if traditional supervision models are used. This also
leads to the absorption of the majority of supervision resources in routine reviews, leaving little
time for substantive issues and broader institutional evaluation. This results in overburdening and
therefore delays in response time on the consideration of innovative projects as well as review of
bidding packages. Overall, IDA's performance was satisfactory in all phases of the project,
providing the necessary assistance and feedback, responding with appropriate flexibility to the
changing processes of the project, and supporting SIF's achievement of its development objectives.
Borrower Performance
26.   SIF personnel have constantly tried to adjust the institution, meeting new requirements,
responding to new frameworks for operation, and generally living up to the experimental nature of
the project. For example, SIF and IDA worked together to streamline procurement processes in an
effort to gain efficiency, taking into account SIF's accumulated experience in procurement. This
effort enabled the SIF to cut in half the time between subproject evaluation and contract signing.
Even throughout periods of politicization in the country, the technical level of SIF staff has
generally remained constant, fulfilling the GOB's commitment to staff the SIF with technically
qualified people. This is reflected in UDAPSO's finding that the beneficiary communities included
in their sample regard SIF as a non-political, technical institution. Nonetheless, SIF's management



8
changes did have some impact on project implementation, mainly due to a loss of institutional
memory through some changes in second-layer management. In addition, SIF had problems
between 1991-1993 involving weak project management and leadership, as well as an increased
level of politicization within SIF.
27.   In some areas, SIF has been less successful in carrying out its obligations. As may be seen
in Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation, there were frequent delays in the
submission of key documents to IDA, causing some delays in implementation. Among these are
SIF's chronically delayed audit reports, delays caused by, among other things, discontinuity of
staff in key departments, inadequate information and financial systems, and a failure to contract
auditors on either a multi-year or a timely basis. SIF's information systems were initially thought
to be sufficient; it is only with the increased volume of SIF projects, contracts, and transactions
that it has become evident that the systems lack both the capacity and the integrality to adequately
serve SIF's information needs. In addition, the GOB did not consistently fulfill its counterpart
obligation to the project, delaying payment and paying insufficient amounts, both of which delayed
and jeopardized project implementation. On balance, however, SIF has performed satisfactorily in
the pursuit of its development objectives.
Assessment of Outcome
28.    Throughout its first four and a half years of operation, SIF was successful in assisting the
GOB in improving both the quality and coverage of health and education services in the following
ways: (a) from the beginning of its operations, SIF involved communities, local governments, and
NGOs in virtually all stages of subproject preparation; this involvement has only been strengthened
and institutionalized through the PPL and the LD; (b) in the absence of a national strategy for
health or education investment for much of SIF's lifetime, national investments in health and
education turned towards primary education and basic preventative health care by virtue of SIF's
project focus, volume of investment, and moreover by SIF's development of innovative programs
that were sometimes later adopted within sector policy; (c) SIF is the pioneer in Bolivia in targeting
social programs to the poor, reaching its target groups in a vast majority of cases; as SIF continues
to fine-tune its methodologies, numerous other institutions within Bolivia have benefitted from SIF
expertise in this field; and (d) not only has SIF been able to coordinate with the relevant
Government ministries and secretariats, related social sector projects, other investment funds,
NGOs, local governments, and communities, SIF has also been able to attract and efficiently
channel foreign financing (multilateral and bilateral) for investment in Bolivian health and
education. Over all, the outcome of SIF is rated satisfactory.
Current and Future Operations
29.    The second SIF Credit is currently in operation, with cofinancing from Denmark, Sweden,
and OPEC. All Credit funds have already been committed; consequently the GOB has recently
requested a SIF-I4I operation. While this is a signal of the Government's continued support of SIF,
it is clear from the evaluation of SIF and the mid-term review of SIF that several issues must be
raised during the project preparation process. In particular, there is a need to: (i) define the
GOB's long-term policy and strategy for social investment in view of SIF's continuing role as an
institution parallel to the line ministries; (ii) reduce SIF's admninistrative costs and evaluate its
possibilities for self-sufficiency as well as the TGN's continuing ability (willingness) to provide its
required counterpart; (iii) develop and evaluate action plans to ensure the sustainability of
completed SIF subprojects, including non-infrastructure subprojects and the required training
components to infiastructure subprojects; (iv) complete the impact evaluation; and (v) undertake
improvements in SIF's financial and information management systems.



9
Key Lessons Learned
30.    The key lessons learned from SIF's experience may be summarized as follows:
*    the absence of strong sector policies in education, health and basic sanitation affected SIF
operations, as has the lack of a defined role for SIF within more defined policies; it is
important to develop and maintain strong links to sector policy, to other related projects
(e.g., PROISS, PROSABAR), and define SIF's role within this framework;
*    SIF experience has demonstrated that a high level of community participation in all steps
of subproject preparation increases the chance of subproject success and sustainability; it
is vital to provide mechanisms for real community participation throughout the subproject
cycle, as well as the appropriate training;
*    by making SIF's design flexible, it has been possible to experiment and undertake
innovative approaches, adjusting operations over time, shifting program focus, responding
to new demands, and reevaluating SIF's ability to assume greater responsibilities; future
SIF operations should similarly allow for flexibility, creativity, and learning within the
institution;
*    the process-based nature of SIF's design requires a high level of consultation between the
Borrower and IDA; given the level and cost of these supervision requirements, IDA should
include with social funds an arrangement for the project to contract consultant specialists
to carry out review on all but a small fraction of contracts;
*    while SIF has been considering ways to reduce its administrative costs, it is vital to find a
proper measure of administrative efficiency that does not discourage the institution from
undertaking innovative projects, attempting more complex interventions, emphasizing
social participation in subprojects, and devoting the resources necessary to ensure the
quality and sustainability of the project;
*     SIF's information system, adapted from the ESF, was not, in hindsight, the most
appropriate type of system for the SIF, nor was it able to successfully expand to keep pace
with SIF's type or level of investment; it is vital to ensure that the accounting and
information systems have the capacity to expand to meet projected investment levels, to
provide extensive training in the use of the systems, and to regularly review the
performance of the systems and make adjustments accordingly.
*    recent SIF experience has shown that the institution is able to effectively assist in the
implementation of central government policies, channel investment in an integrated way,
and provide support to local authorities in assuming their roles under decentralization; in
the context of the recently-introduced PPL and LD, along with the Education Reform and
the future Health Reform, it is vital to assure that there is an institution sustainable over
the long term that can carry out the functions necessary to promote the proper
implementation of the policies.



10
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.   Achievement of objectives      Substantial      Partial    Negligible   Not Applicabl
Macro policies                    O0                                         0
Sector policies                                  0 0         0               0
Financial objectives              0              0           0               0
Institutional development         0              0           O               O
Physical objectives               0              0           0               0
Poverty reduction                 0              0           0               0
Gender issues                     0              0           0               0
Other social objectives          0               0           0               0
Environmental objectives          0              0           0               0
Public sector management          0              0           0               o
Private sector development        0              0           E               0
Other (specify)                  0               0           0               0



11
B.   Project sustainability                Likely        Unlikely      Uncertain
(v')           (/)           (/)
Institutional sustainability           0              0              0
Subproject sustainability              0              0             O
Highly
C.  Bank performance                      satisfactory    Satisfictoy    Deficient
(/)            (/)           (/)
Identification                         0              0              0
Preparation assistance                 0              0              0
Appraisal                              0                              3 0
Supervision                            0              0              0
Hivghy
D.  Borrower performance                   satisfactory    Satisfactorv    Deficient
,(/)           (1)           (v")
Identification                         0              0             0
Preparation assistance                 0              0              0
Appraisal                              0              0             0
Supervision                            0              0             0
Highly                                 Highly
E.   Assessment of outcome         satisfactov      Satisfactoy  Deficient   unsatsfactor
(0)            (0)        (0)             (/)
0              0          0               0



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
1..   .....   ....  ..   .....  ................         ,: , ,... ,   .  .   .,             .......,....  .        .......     .....   .     .   ...............   .... . ...... ............. .:
M   ftdRlI-i                    Puo.                   Yaro Ap          ..va     Stt
M:::    ! .   .  _.  -                               ..7     .  7   _  .
Preceding Operations
in lending program:
Cr. 1829-BO             Emergency Social Fund                   1987                Closed
Cr. 1882-BO             Second Emergency Social Fund            1988                Closed
Cr. 2092-BO             Integrated Health Services              1990             In operation
Project (PROISS)
Following operations
in lending program:
Cr. 2532-BO             Second Social Investment Fund           1993             In operation
Cr. 2650-BO             Education Reform Project                1994             In operation
Cr. 2806-BO             Rural Sanitation Project                1995             In operation
(PROSABAR)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification (Executive Project Summary)              X                 Jan. 1989
Preparation                                            July 1989          July 1989
Appraisal                                             Nov. 1989          Nov. 1989
Negotiations                                           Feb. 1990          Feb. 1990
Board Presentation                                                       Apr. 1990
Signing                                                                  May 1990
Effectiveness                                         June 1990          Dec. 1990
Midtenn Assessment                                                       May 1993
Project Completion                                    June 1993          April 1996
Credit Closing                                        June 1994          June 1995
Final Disbursement                                                       Sept. 1995
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY91  FY92          ltY~~~~93    FY 94       F9
Appraisal estimate                   3,700         11,700        18,200       20,000       nJa
Actual                                 0            3,052        14,833       18,230      21,383
Actual as percent of estimnate                   26.1 percent     81.S         91.2
percent     percent  _____
Date of final disbursement: Septemb er, 1995 



13
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Milzetst  ind;c-or- i
SAW P dI  t'm                         d                  - -         Comments
1. Actions to be Taken by the
Government and SIF
(a) Take all action necessary to   September       August 1990
assure that financing          30, 1990
agreements in an aggregate
amount not less than US$10
million become effective by
September 30, 1990, unless the
Govemment and SIF had made
alternative arrangements,
satisfactory to IDA, to secure
financing required for SIF's
planned commitments for
financing of subprojects.
(b) Take all action necessary to   March 31,       December
assure that financing          1991            1990
agreements in an aggregate
amount not less than US$25
million become effective by
March 31, 1991, unless the
Government and SIF had made
alternative arrangements,
satisfactory to IDA, to secure
financing required for SIF's
planned commitments for
financing of subprojects.
(c) Review of sector strategies and  November      December
expenditure/ investment plans;  30, each year    each year
confirn continued consistency
of SIF's program or
recommend changes for
following year's program and
budget.
(d) Review of SIF's budget and    March 31,       March 31,
annual program.                each year       each year
(e) Confirrn budgeting of operating    November   November
expenditures for projects for  30, each year    30, each year
which Govenmment is
responsible.
2. Actions to be Taken by SIF
(a) Technical Assistance:



14
SARI   ....dent.s ..... .      Estimated         Actual               Commnts
Furnish to IDA terms of
reference for the following
tasks:
(i)Poverty and Demography       September       December
30, 1990        1990
(ii) Institutional Evaluation   May 31,         May 31,
1990            1990
(iii) Subproject evaluation and
supervision methodologies
- Education(Practicaltraining)  April9, 1990     April 1990
- Health                        July 31, 1990   Dec. 1990
- Basic Sanitation              3/16/1990       June 1990
t Nutritional development       3/16/1990       March 1992
= Subproject supervision        April 2, 1990    July 1990
(iv) Annual monitoring          December        December
31, each year    31, each year
(b) Fumish to IDA revised          April 16,       December
Evaluation Manual modified to  1990            1990
include evaluation guidelines
fior sub- projects under
categories described in para.
4.05 (a) (iii) and (vi), (b) (iii),
and (c) of the SAR.
(c) Long-term monitoring:
(i)Definemethodologyfor         July 31, 1990   October 1992
baseline indicators and
submit to the Association
draft terms of reference for
baseline survey of
Beneficiary Communities;
(ii) Finalize arrangements for  September      January 1993
the establishment of baseline  30, 1990
indicators and subsequent
impact surveys of
Beneficiary Communities;
(iii) Submit to the Association   October 31,   Annually
annual reports on the       each year
progress made by SIF in its
monitoring program;



15
1 X* o i -- ~~~. . . . . . . . . .............  -  -:,- , -.,--  -  
'inicAtos h 
SAf?...iden id   keport-          Estimated-:    -:A it  C-mments                         -:
(iv) Submit to the Association a   March 31,       April 15, 1994       Survey to verify benefits
report on the first impact      1993                               under SIF projects is in
survey of Beneficiary                                              process.
Communities;
(d) Furnish to IDA the following
reports:
(i)summaries of all subprojects    the 15th day                        After first three years of
approved by SIF, source of     of each                             project execution, IDA and
financing, status of           month                               SIF agreed that these
processing or execution and                                        reports would be reviewed
key monitoring indicators;                                         on a random basis during
supervision.
(ii) quarterly progress reports    Every July 1,                        Compliance with this
reviewing sources and uses     October 1,                          provision became erratic in
of funds, and highlighting     January 1,                           1992-3. Compliance has
problems identified by SIF;    and April 1,                        improved in 1995.
beginning
July 1, 1990
(iii) quarterly reviews of         Every July 1,                        SIF has carried out periodic
Procurement under              October 1,                          evaluations of procurement.
subcontracts                   January 1,
and April 1,
beginning
July 1, 1990
(iv) reports presenting the         1 month after                      SIF has undergone a major
results of annual              the review                          self-evaluation and
performance reviews                                                restructuring following the
referred to in II (a)(iv), and                                     midterm review.
I(b) and (c) above; and
(v) a final report on              June 30,          May 16,
implementation experience      1993              1993
and the outcome of the first
three years of the SIF
program.
(e) Submit SIF's yearly budget as     November          November
agreed with corresponding         30, each year     30, each year
ministries (including Finance
and Planning, where
applicable)
(f) Audits of its accounts, the       April 30,         Annually          SIF has had difficulty in
Special Account, and all          each year                           having its audits carried out
disbursements made against                                            according to the agreed



16
SAW:   |.  idr'sidet R    ifr      Estiate           Actual:               Comment
SOEs in accordance with                                          schedule.
Bank/IDA guidelines.
III. Actions to be Taken by the
Government and ESF
(a) Tenminate ESF's operations                                      Complete
according to an agreed
timetable
IV. Actions to be Taken by ESF                                       Complete
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key operation indicators in SAR: None



17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
-    Purpose as derined t
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~-.- .---.- -,-       .      - , . ..- .-     ,--.-.-..
1. Povery Targeting                                         Completed          The results and
Methodology Evaluation                                   (December, 1990)  findings applied within
______________________________                              ~~~~ ~~~~~SIF.
2. Information Systems        Assistance to ensure smooth   Completed          The results were
transition from ESF system, and                  applied within SIF;
to ensure continuing                             transition of systems
coordination of systems                          successfully made.
3. Monitoring (Short- and     a) to perform yearly          a) Completed       Analysis of Baseline
Long-term)                performance reviews to analyze   annually        Data for Impact
coverage, the adequacy of                        Evaluation
project and supervision
procedures
b) to carry out medium- to long-  b) Methodology    b) Proposal received
term evaluation               defined October,   from UDAPSO to carry
1992; Baseline    out impact evaluation
indicators        using methodology
January, 1996     developed.
4.  Study of Yachay Wasi      Carry out systematic study of  Concluded         The analysis of this
Model                     existing rural education model                   model was developed
to allow SIF to evaluate and                    into the design of SIF's
support its operation in order to                Rural Boarding School
reinforce rural primary                         facility program
education                                        ('Internados Rurales"),
was carried out, and
has been incorporated
into the Education
Reform.
5. Study of Arakuarenda       Carry out an historical and   Concluded          The model was adapted
model (an intercultural   operational study of the                         and has been used
training center)          methodologies, fundamental                       throughout the country.
concepts, and educational
experiences developed within
this model, along with an
analysis of the economic
viability and replicability of the
model.
6. Urban and Rural            Evaluate and classify provinces   Concluded      Incorporated into SIF's
Prioritization Studies    and urban areas according to                     targeting criteria (up to
their level of poverty                           1993)
7. SIF Reorganization Study   Define the type of organization    Concluded     On the basis of this
necessary to improve the quality                study, SIF carried out a
of service, achieve project                      reorganization of staff,
sustainability and a high level of               procedures, and
participation; increase                          functions.
I administrative productivity                  ..     _ _  _



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
......   .   . .....  .  ..    .  ... .......A.ppraisal  estim af te:  .......
_________  __                     _ :; (USS million)  te__   J S     million
Local      Foreign                   Local    Foreign
Item               costs       costs        Total       costs      Costs      Total
1.SIF Subprojects
Health                     51.2            6.7       57.9      34.82                 34.82
Education                  26.8            2.0       28.8      24.88                 24.88
Institutional
Support to RAs              0.6            0.0        0.6       0.34                  0.34
Subtotal                   78.6            8.7       87.3      62.65                 62.65
2. SIF Institutional
Development
Administration              4.8            0.2        5.0      12.18                 12.18
Equipment,
vehicles,
maintenance                 0.6            1.8        2.4       2.76                  2.76
Technical
Assistance                  0.4            0.3        0.7       0.44        0.02      0.46
Subtotal                    5.8            2.3        8.1      15.38        0.02     15.40
3. ESF Program                  0.0            0.2        0.2       0.02                  0.02
TOTAL*                         84.4           11.2       95.6      78.05        0.02     78.07
*Note: The key difference between the appraisal estimate and the actual costs of the project is that funds
from cofinancing did not materialize as rapidly as projected.
Table 8B: Project Financing
i:::.. ...... 0-l:.;. 0.0... :j:.                                               A r-et:til!:.       ::h:, :   ;0    ;:     0;2; - g S il  n -:  .   .. ..i :   t7   ;: :;:::iA0    :         :  .  .mili
..... . .    ...... ..... Appraisa  si ae.A                   ta
....  . . .....   ... .  . .........    ......5.$ Mo m ilJ  ).   _____ (U SM ilo s)
Local   Foreign                   Local    Foreign        Total
costs     costs       Total       cost       cost
Source
IDA 2127 - BO                                           20.0       21.36      0.02         21.38
IDA 2092 - BO                                           5.3         3.03                   3.03
Cofinancing institutions                                43.6       12.48                   12.48
Other external financing'                                          26.77                   26.77
Requesting agencies                                     6.9
Beneficiary communities                                 10.2        1.88                   1.882
Government                                              9.6        12.53                   12.53
TOTAL                                              .    95.6       78.08      0.02         78.08
'Other institutions included are: Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom.
2Requesting agency and Beneficiary Community contributions are combined to compose the Local
Counterpart, which is approximately 3 percent of total subproject cost.



19
TABLE 8C: FINANCING BY FINANCIER
(US$)
F     .                            [ ....                                           J g   l   |   |   OTHER    |   |    ENE          TOTA
._____________           1VA        NETHER-         OPEC        SWEDEN        SWffZER-         IDA        EXTERNAL        BOLIVlAN    FICIARIES/        TOTAL
| : ._________              2127         LANDS                                      LAND          2092       FINANCIERS         GOV'T          RAs
PROJECTS
Primary Health          3,562,830.57    414,177.22   2,128,580.67   650,483.00    762,482.91    3,025,917.70    2,999,934.46    2.044,833.71    482,141.45   16,071,381.6
Health & Nutrition       1,128,187.48    45,124.14                  118,983.33    180,625.12             |      -10670.41      184,886.55    50,942.36    1,698,078.57
Basic Sanitation        5,468,939.79    528,412.24                  965,961.23   1,081,066.52                 6,548,757.75    1.950,896.28    511,664.96   17,055,698.7
Formal Education        4,376,971.60    438,338.29    817,433.15    959,883.64    884,589.03                  7,000,352.09    2,010,363.25    509,936.01    16,997,867.0
Non-format Education    2,521,429.46    267,t14.07                  438,666.06|   486,605.99|            |   3,010,386.74      914,656.07    236,253.35    7,875,111.74
Institutional Support      29,829.36         0.00                        0.00          0.0 l                225,739.201      73,929.39j    10,190.66     339,688.61
Special Projects    j _             _                                                                    |   2,242,898.081    286,640.981    78,233.17    2,607,772.23
SUBTOTAL            |  17,088,188.26   1.693,165.96   2,946,013.82   3,133,977.26   3,395,369.571  3,025,917.701  22,017,397.911   7,466,206.231 1,879,361.96   62,645,598.67
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                                         _    |
Personnel Services      3,584,924.901   261,351.111        0.00     560,289.05    357,706.04                  1,665,193.94|   2,101,385.59    8,530,850.63|
Non-Personnel Serv.        76,769.38        93.571             |       -121.84      1,029.60             |   2,372,99506|   1,692,172.42                  4,142,938.1
Supplies                  633,782.40|        0.001                       0.00    127,675.40                    722,217.941   1,273,747.62|    2,757,423.36
SUBTOTAL                4,295,476.68    261,444.68             |    560,167.21    486,411.04             |   4,760,406.94    5,067,305.63                15,431,212.1
TOTAL                  |  21,383,664.94|  1,954,610.641  2,946,013.82   3,694,144.47   3,881,780.61   3,025,917.70   26,777,804.85   12,533,511.86  1,879,361.96   78,076,810.85



20
Table SD: IDA Credit Allocation
(Amounts in SDRs)
l    Credit        Amendment        Amendment  [Amendment   Amendment             Actual
Icategories                                Agreement        April, 1993    November, 1993  January, 1994   June, 1994   October, 1995|
SA  Initial Deposit to Special Account*                                                                                     19,020
1 HEALTH
IA  Primary Care                              1,860,000        1,860,000       2,290,000     2,484,790     2,484,790     2,539,006
I B  Nutrition                                2,190,000       2,190,000        1,145,000     1,145,000       817,562       785,435
IC  Basic Sanitation                          2,190,000       2,190,000        3,893,000     3,893,000     3,893,000      3,900,173
UBTOTAL HEALTH                                6,240,000        6,240,000       7,328,000     7,522,790      7,195,352     7,224,614
2 EDUCATION
2A  Formal Education                          4,100,000        4,100,000       2,290,000     2,744,510      3,030,441     3,070,901
2B  Non-formal Education                       970,000          970,000        1,717,500      1,717,500     1,840,042     1,780,898
UBTOTAL EDUCATION                             5,070,000        5,070,000       4,007,500     4,462,010      4,870,483     4,851,799
3  INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                       140,000         140,000          114,500       114,500        33,465         21,050
SUBTOTAL SUB-PROJECTS                         11,450,000       11,450,000      11,450,000     12,099,300    12,099,300    12,097,463
4  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
4A  Salaries, Travel, and Training            1,000,000        1,860,700       1,860,700      1,860,700     2,269,169     2,235,904
4B  Equipment, Supplies, Vehicles              540,000          540,000          540,000       540,000       431,893       447,742
4C  Consultant Services                        470,000          470,000          470,000       470,000       291,208       291,440
SUBTOTAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVEL.                  2,010,000        2,870,700       2,870,700     2,870,700      2,992,270     2,975,086
5  ESF TRAINING                                130,000         130,000          130,000       130,000         8,430          8,430
UNALLOCATED                               1,510,000         649,300         649,300             0             0              0
|TOTAL                                         15,100,000      15,100,000       15,100,000    15,100,000    15,100,000    15,099,999
*Note: The Special Account was fully documented in the currency of the Special Account. The amount of SDRs 19,020, indicated
under the SA category, represents the exchange rate fluctuation between the SDR and the currency of the Special Account
from the time of advances to the Special Account to the time of documentation of the account.



21
Table 8D: Netherlands Grant (Cofinancing)
(Amounts in Netherlands Guilders (NLG))
Grant         Amendment        Amendment        Amendment          Actual
ategories                                 Agreement        June, 1993    November, 1993    June, 1994       October, 1995
1 HEALTH
IA  Primary Care                                420,000          532,000          637,000          747,000         744,46
l B  Nutrition                                  525,000          266,000         266,000           81,600           82,16
IC  Basic Sanitation                            525,000          904,400          904,400         904,400          949,44
UBTOTAL HEALTH                                 1,470,000        1,702,400       1,807,400        1,733,000        1,776,071
2 EDUCATION
2A  Formal Education                            945,000          532,000          777,000          797,000          786,55
2B  Non-formal Education                        210,000          399,000          399,000          480,000         483,29
SUBTOTAL EDUCATION                              1,155,000         931,000         1,176,000       1,277,000        1,269,85
3  INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                        35,000           26,600           26,600                0
SUBTOTAL SUB-PROJECTS                           2,660,000        2,660,000       3,010,000        3,010,000        3,045,92
4  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                   490,000          490,000          490,000          490,000          454,07
UNALLOCATED                                 350,000          350,000               0                0
OTAL                                          3,500,000        3,500,000        3,500,000        3,500,000        3,500,00



22
Table SD: Swedish Grant (Cofinancing)
(Amounts in Swedish Kroner (SEK))
|    Grant    |  Amendment     Amendment  |  Amendment                Actual
ategories                            |  Agreement        June, 1993    November, 1993    June, 1994     October, 1995
I HEALTH
1A  Primary Care                             3,120,000       3,952,000       4,732,000       4,732,000       4,708,32
1 B  Nutrition                              3,900,000        1,976,000       1,976,000         926,000         909,281
I C  Basic Sanitation                       3,900,000        6,718,400       6,718,400       6,718,400       6,727,82
UBTOTAL HEALTH                              10,920,000      12,646,400      13,426,400       12,376,400      12,345,42
2 EDUCATION
2A  Fonnal Education                         7,020,000       3,952,000       5,772,000        6,822,000       6,824,24
2B  Non-fornal Education                     1,560,000       2,964,000       2,964,000       3,161,600        3,124,76
UBTOTAL EDUCATION                            8,580,000       6,916,000       8,736,000        9,983,600       9,949,01
3  INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                     260,000          197,600         197,600               0
UBTOTAL SUB-PROJECTS                        19,760,000      19,760,000      22,360,000       22,360,000      22,294,44
4  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                3,640,000       3,640,000        3,640,000       3,640,000       3,705,55
UNALLOCATED                              2,600,000       2,600,000              0               0
OTAL                                        26,000,000      26,000,000      26,000,000      26,000,000       26,000,



23
Table SD: Swiss Grant (Cofiancing)
(Amounts in Swiss Francs (CHF))
Grant         Amendment       Amendment          Actual        Undisbursed
ategories                                Agreement        June, 1993    November, 1993   October, 1995       Amount*
I HEALTH
IA  Primary Care                               721,500          888,260        1,063,970        1,024,821          39,149
I B  Nutrition                                 849,500          444,130          444,130         188,080          256,05
I C  Basic Sanitation                          849,500        1,510,042        1,510,042        1,522,460
UBTOTAL HEALTH                                2,420,500        2,842,432       3,018,142        2,735,361         295,1
2 EDUCATION
2A  Formal Education                          1,590,300         888,260        1,298,250        1,258,285          39,965
2B  Non-formal Education                       376,200          666,195          666,195         672,374
UBTOTAL EDUCATION                             1,966,500        1,554,455       1,964,445        1,930,659          39,96
3  INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                        54,300          44,413           44,413               0
SUBTOTAL SUB-PROJECTS                          4,441,300        4,441,300       5,027,000        4,666,020         360,98
4  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                   830,000         830,000          830,000          583,593         246,407
UNALLOCATED                                585,700          585,700               0                0
TOTAL                                          5,857,000        5,857,000       5,857,000        5,249,613         607,387
*Several disbursement matters remain pending; the full amount has already been committed.



24
Table 8E: Investment Subprojects Directed at Women
(Cr. 2127-BO and Cofinanciers)
(as of September 30, 1995)
......................                                .Amount                                   COSt :per
Ty4pe ofl$uprogranmi |tStats0    Numbrof   Dsured   00Nsumber oft0  Beeicaw
Infant Nutrition Centers         Concluded                3114,238                               480
_______________ In execution                     12                  558,233            2,860
TO      L::  In          u      ..t... .15                                   62,71                   0  .  .         ...
Training Programns for           Concluded               11                  499,401           11,710
Women                            In execution            15                1,688,524           45,523
TOTAL~~~~~~~als000;Et700: Trinn   Programs       ;26:;0 ;0    :t2,187,925;             57,233       0 i00:000 $3800i0
Program  for Pregnant             In execution            81,069,389                           20,045
and Nursing Mothers              ___________ ____ ___                                      ______
W.; : iE, t~.      .....  ....    ..    ..-  .... . . . .   . 0   . .. . . . . .  . .   .,  .   ....   .   : :.  :   - .   ::   :   7  :   h:   : ....7:::T:::
.TOTA:. .Progra   for: Mothers>:-e0f::;: :0 ::8: ;:                        1,069,389; ;E    20,045   :E    E- :X--$53:E:. .::
Literacy Programs                Concluded                4                  262,781            2,352
_____________In execution                         5                  390,658            4,122
T a ' Liter.ac Programs                         9                   653.439....        6,                    11..  b
TOTAL BY STATUS:  Concluded                              18                 876,420            14,542
_______________In execution                      43                3,706,804           72,550______
:::,::::    _________ _   TOTAL 5.                         8 .  :4,8322                        87:2  $:   : . .: 
::   :S  ::  :    7---:-::A:03 ::   Sj   ::  :-:      -t;  t  --T....   .....  : ..   ....; $; :S:: :::S



25
Table 8F: NGO Participation in Subprojects
(as of October 1995)
Number of         Number of
. -  .   Type of Subprogram             Projects        Participating
-_______________________________________          Approved            NGOs
HEALTH:               Primary Health Care                26                 9
Health Training                    4                  4
Epidemiology                       2                  2
Infant Nutrition Centers           9                  8
BASIC SANITATION: Potable Water                           7                 3
Waste Disposal                      2                 1
EDUCATION:            Formnal:
Schools                            29                 8
Multigrade Schools                 44                 9
Non-Formal:
Trailiing for Women                14                12
Tcacher/Community Training          1                 1
Productive Training                34                29
Rural Boarding Schools             13                 4
Multiservice Schools               5                  5
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                                     5                 4
OTHER:                Special Projects                    2                 2
TOTAL                             197               101



26
Table 8G: Subproject Financing by Subproject Type
(as of September 30, 1995)
i  |      ;::   7    | Number of Number of              Amount Disbursed (US$)              Number of Beneficiaries J  Costper
: 1    Subprogram       Projects    Projects    Projects.in| Concluded          Total       Concluded      Total     Beneficiaryl
Sector      Subprogram        Approved  Concluded    Execution         Projects    _    _    _      Projects     Number        (US$)
Health
Child Nutrition Centers       1 5          3        445,110        114,238        559,347         480         3,340       167.47
Primary Health Care          414          78       9,793,316     3,083,823      12,877,139     955,359    2,413,099         5.34
Epidemiology                  16          0        2,844,666             0       2,844,666    none          114,776        24.78
Gestantes y Nodrizas           8           0       1,069,389             0       1,069,389    none           20,045        53.35
Health Training                7          4         126,040        432,982        559,023       43,292       63,886         8.75
Subtotal Health                        460         85       14,278,521     3,631,043      17,909,565     999,131    2,615,146         6.85
Basic Sanitation
Potable Water                222         108       7,283,146     6,210,993      13,494,139     169,164      348,332        38.74
1|U  te Disposal               54         30       3,115,524      2,188,938      5,304,462       66,347      104,968       50.53
Subtotal Basic Sanitation              276        138       10,398,669     8,399,931      18,798,600     235,511      453,300        41.47
COMBINED SUBTOTAL                      736        223       24,677,191    12,030,974      36,708,165    1,234,642    3,068,446       11.96
Education
Formal  Multigrade Schools            292         75       3,665,851       1,686,507      5,352,359       3,786      167,087       32.03
Schools                      298         60       10,351,676     2,666,136      13,017,812      16,555       89,512       145.43
Subtotal Formal Education              590        135       14,017,527     4,352,643      18,370,171      20,341      256,599        71.59
Non-    Multiservice Centers            5          0         357,796              0        357,796    none           120,547         2.97
formal  Training for Women             26          1 1      1,688,524       499,401       2,187,925      11,710       57,233        38.23
Productive Training           54          18       1,966,783      1,180,793      3,147,576      37,879    1,228,747         2.56
Rural Boarding Schools        21           0       1,244,867             0       1,244,867    none            4,263       292.02
Special Projects               4           1        219,824         60,041        279,865        1,804        5,824        48.05
Teacher/Community
Training                      I          0           7,066              0          7,066    none             2,831         2.50
Subtotal Non-formal Education          111         30        5,484,860     1,740,234       7,225,094      51,393    1,419,445         5.09
SUBTOTAL Education                     701        165       19,502,388     6,092,878      25,595,265      71,734    1,676,044        15.27
Institutional Support
Education                     lI           3        336,369          1,506        337,875    none             4,249        79.52
Health                         1          0           4,094              0          4,094    none             1,000         4.09
SUBTOTAL Institutional Support          12          3         340,463          1,506        341,968    none             5,2491       65.15
TOTALS* *                            1,449        391      44,520,0411    18,125,358      62,645,399                                 58.61
*NOTE: T'otal number of beneficiaries not available; a total of beneficiaries per subproject type would include double-counting due to
different SIF subprojects serving the same populations
**NOTE: Total for Cost/Beneficiary is an average of the costs of each type of subprogram.



27
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Bolivia: Social Investment Fund Project
Cr. 2127-BO
Original      Revised
Covenant             Fufllmnent   FulifliUent
Section   .eyp        Status   date           date         Description of covenant  Comments
2.01                                                       Credit Amount: SDR
15.1 million
2.02(b)                  C                                 Special Account (No.    See Schedule 5. Special
0401-363979-000, Swiss  Account opened
Bank Corp., NY, NY)     12/19/90.
2.03                     C      06/30/94      12/31/94     Closing Date
06/30/95
2.06                   NYD    04/01 and                    Payment dates
10/01 each                 (commitment charges
year                       and service charges)
3.01(a)       3          C                                 Government shall (i) &
(ii) cause SIF and ESF
to carry out their
respective parts of the
Project; and (iii)
provide, and cause SIF
to provide, promptly as
needed, the funds,
facilities, etc., required
for the Project.
4.01(b)       9         CD      04/30 each                 Furnish to IDA certified   SIF's compliance with
(ii)                           year                        copies of financial     auditing deadlines has
statements (4.01(a)) and   consistently been
reports of auditors    delayed.
(4.01(b)i)).
4.01(c)       9          C      All times                  Maintain records and
accounts reflecting
expenditures; retain all
records on such
expenditure until one
year after IDA has
received audit reports
for fiscal year in which
last disbursement was
made; and ensure that
audit report contains
opinion on reliability of
accounts, statements of
procedures, and internal



28
controls in support of
withdrawals.
6.01(f)         3           C      03/31/91                       Continuation by ESF of
any disbursements on
subprojects after March
31, 1991.
6.01(g)         4           C      09/30/90         12/31/90      Failure of cofinancing     Revised in First
agreements covering at    Amendment to the
least US510 million to    Development Credit
become effective by due   Agreement, 11/28/90.
date.
6.01(g)         4           C      03/31/91                       Failure of cofinancing
agreements covering an
additional US$15
million to become
effective by due date.
7.03            10          C      08/07/90         11/07/90      Deadline for               Credit became effective
02/07/91      effectiveness.             12/21/90.
Key
Covenant types:
I Account/audit                      S Indigenous people               C      covenant compii with
2 Financial perfornance/revenue       9 Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD  = complied with afr delay
generation from beneficiaries         10 Project implementation not covered   CP  complied with artdely
3 Flow and utilization of projed funds  by categories 1-9               CP   =  omplied with partially
4 Counterpart funding                 11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary   NCY    not compled wd
5 Management aspects of the project or  or other resource allocation    NYD  = nd yet due
executing agency                      12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral
6 Environmental covenants             policy/regulatory/institutional action
7 Involuntary resettlement            13 Other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Fully Complied With
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Weeks
Stage of                   APlanned|   W ee s                                           ctual
oItJcC cycle :  : X ;i0Weeks ::XAiUS$   < Weeks. :    SSt :     :WeOks: j0 ;USs.:: 
Through appraisal                                                                        8.2         20,000
Appraisal - Board
Board - Effectiveness                                                _
Supervision                                                                             188.3        400,950
Completion                                                                               8.0          7,300
TOTAL                                                                                  204.5*        428,250
*Total includes 29.8 staff weeks used for administration and supervision of cofinancing



29
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Number_                                    ---Performance Rating    >
Montht       of      Deys in     Spechlized Staff    -Impleenteaton   Development
Stage of Project Cycle    Year      Persons    Field      Skills Represented_      Status2         Objective              Type of Problems
Tbrough Apprual-v
Identification/Preparationl
Pr-prisal
Appraisal through Board     Nov-89        3         12     Economists (1 C)
Approval
Negotiations
Board Approval through      May-90        4         12    Economists (2 C)               1               I
Effectiveness               Aug-90        3         8     Economists (2 C)               I               I
Dec-90       3         12     Economists (2 C)              I                I
Supervision I               May-91        3               2 Economists (I C)             I               I
Education Spec. (C)
Supervision 2               Oct-91        3         10    Econonmists (2 C)              3               2         Management and leadership problems
Supervision 3               Mar-92       2          14    Economnists (I C)             2                2
Supervision 4               Mar-93        6               Operations Specialist         2                2
(Midterm Review)                                           Health Specialist
HR Economist
Education Specialist
Sanitary Engineer
Economist (C)
Supervision 5               Feb-94       4          8     Economists (2 C)              HS              HS
HR Economist
Supervision 6               Feb-95        3               Economists                    S               HS         Audit report delays
Operation Spec. (C)
3Consultant participation is represented by a "C"
2 Performance ratings were altered from numerical to alphabetical ratings in FY'94



30
APPENDICES
A.    Borrower Contribution.
B.    There are no contributions by cofinanciers.
C.    Miscellaneous Appendices. None.
D.    Map.



~~~l o
INFORME DE CIERRE
CONVENIO DE CREDITO
BANCO MUNDIAL AIF 2127-BO
MAYO, 1996






LNDICE
INFORME DE CIERRE
1. -   EVOLUCION  INSTITUCIONAL DEL FIS.-
1.1.- El Fondo Social de Emergencia
1.2.- El Fondo de Inversi6n Social
1.3.- Evoluci6n de las modalidades de acci6n del FIS: De la Emergencia
al Alivio de la Pobreza.
2.-  FACTORES PREPONDERANTES EN LA IMPLEMENTACION
DEL PROYECTO.-
2.1.-  Refuerzo a las politicas de los Sectores (Salud, Saneamiento Basico
y Educaci6n)
2.2.-  Estabilidad del equipo profesional y tecnico
2.3.-  Asistencia tecnica otorgada a las instituciones (publicas y privadas)
que trabajan en el FIS.
2.4.-  Transparencia en sus operaciones
2.5.-  Criterios de Focalizaci6n e Intervenci6n
Priorizaci6n urbana
Priorizaci6n rural
3.-  RELACION CON LOS FINANCIADORES.-
4.-   PRINCIPALES BENEFICIOS DEL PROYECTO.-
4.1.- Dotaci6n de servicios basicos a la poblaci6n mds necesitada de Bolivia
4.2.- Presencia Institucional FIS en todo el territorio nacional
4.3.- Participaci6n comunitaria progresiva en los proyectos financiados
5.-   RIESGOS DEL PROYECTO.-
5. 1.- Continuidad de los proyectos de inversi6n financiados por el FIS
5.2.- Continuidad Institucional
6.-   IMPACTO  DEL PROYECTO.-
7.-   CONCLUSIONES.-






INFORME DE CIERRE
CONVENlO DE CREDITO BANCO MUNDIAL AIF 2127-BO
1.    EVOLUCION INSTITUCIONAL DEL FIS
1.1. El Fondo Social de Emergencia.-
El Fondo Social de Emergencia (FSE), naci6 como una respuesta del Gobiemo
frente a la situaci6n ca6tica del sector social como consecuencia de las medidas de
ajuste estructural, implementado para equilibrar las variables macroecon6micas. Su
principal objetivo fue el de redistribuir ingresos a traves de la utilizaci6n de mano de
obra entre la poblaci6n desempleada del pais. En su duraci6n aproximada de 3 ainos el
FSE actu6 como un instrumento de alivio social hasta que la reactivaci6n gener6
condiciones econ6micas mas estables. Cre6 cerca de 60,000 empleos, financi6 un
total de 3,269 obras en programas de Asistencia T6cnica, Infraestructura Social y
Econ6mica y Apoyo a la Producci6n.
Seg6n estudios realizados sobre el impacto macroecon6mico del FSE, sus
inversiones en el periodo 87-89 habrian representado el 51% de los recursos
suministrados al sector social; ademas se demostr6 que el efecto aislado de los
programas del FSE contribuy6 a mejorar los ingresos de los grupos sociales mas
afectados (asalariados y campesinos principalmente) por el Ajuste Estructural de la
economifa boliviana.
1.2. El Fondo de Inversi6n Social.-
Creado por Decreto Supremo Ng 22407 del 11 de enero de 1990 con el mandato de
alivio a la pobreza, a traves de inversiones en Salud, Educaci6n y Saneamiento
Basico.
La primera fase del FIS, enmarcada en el Convenio de Credito AIF 2127/BO del
Banco Mundial, tenfa como principal objetivo el de asistir al Gobiemo en su esfuerzo
de mejorar la cobertura y calidad de los servicios en salud y educaci6n, a traves de: a)
Incremento de las responsabilidades de los gobiemos locales y ONGs; b) Cambiar las
prioridades hacia la atenci6n primaria bdsica y preventiva en salud y en educaci6n
primaria.; c) desarrollar mecanismos para mejorar la focalizaci6n de programas
sociales con destino a los pobres; y d) introducir procedimientos que faciliten la
coordinaci6n entre los actores sociales.
1



1.3. Evoluci6n  de  las  modalidades  de  accion  del FIS: De  la
Emergencia al Alivio de la Pobreza.
Una vez que concluy6 el rol del Fondo Social de Emergencia, las condiciones
sociales imponfan la creaci6n de un otro instrumento, que a partir de la experiencia
obtenida, se proyecte como un mecanismo financiero de mediano y largo plazo
orientado ya no a un simple paliativo, sino a sostener polifticas sectoriales de alivio a
la pobreza en los sectores menos favorecidos de la sociedad boliviana, a traves de
acciones que permitan mejorar las coberturas en servicios en los sectores de
educaci6n, salud y saneamiento basico. El FIS en su propia prdctica, fue
proyectandose hacia una intervenci6n integral que considere como espacios de
intervenci6n ya no la comunidad aislada de su entorno, sino espacios territoriales
mds coherentes como los Distritos de Salud.
Una importante diferencia entre el FSE y el FIS es el instrumento de financiamiento
utilizado. El FSE trabajaba principalmente con solicitudes de financiamiento que se
traducfan en perfiles de proyecto; el FIS en cambio incorpora el proyecto con todos
sus componentes, como por ejemplo: Infraestructura, Equipamiento, Capacitaci6n, y
Supervisi6n.
La evoluci6n institucional desde el punto de vista de sus mandatos, objetivos,
criterios de focalizaci6n e intervenci6n y el grado de participaci6n comunitaria se
resume en los cuadros siguientes:
FSE (86-90)                           FIS(91-93)
:*  PAL ATISIS  tt00t000000i ;000;0 t*  iALIVIO   A  LA   POBREZA
.A LACRISIS.
'INSTRUMENTO::                       * ISTRUMENTO:
PERFIL DE PROYECTO.M
.PROYECTO
E INVERSION EN SERVICIOS
*:INVERSION GLOBAL ... .
.EN EL SECTOR PRO                   BSIS
(Salud, Saneamlento Basico
DUCTIVO Y SOCIAL:.Edccin
* GENERAR EMPLEO                    * INCREMENTO EN
EMPLEO   SSS:                          :COBERTURAS:
(Satud, Saneamlento Basko
____________________________:__:      y  Educacl6n)
* FOCALIZACION                       FOCALIZACION CON:
POR DEMANDA                         CRITERIOS DE INTER-
______________________ : : :: : 7 :VENCION
*INTERVENCION       .-0 0            INICIO DE LA:
TPUNTUAL                             INTERVENCION
____________._____:_:_____    ;      INTEGRAL
'SIN PARTICIPACION                  * CON INICIO DE
.COMUNITARIA                        PARTICIPACION
COML2NITARIA
2



2.  FACTORES PREPONDERANTES EN LA IMPLEMENTACION DEL
PROYECTO
2.1. Refuerzo a las politicas de los Sectores ( Salud, Saneamiento
Bdsico, Educaci6n)
A objeto de que las inversiones del FIS sean consistentes con las poifticas nacionales
para salud, saneamiento bdsico y educaci6n, asi como para mejorar la eficiencia en el
uso de los recursos, se desarrollaron mecanismos de coordinaci6n, tales como el
derecho de los Ministerios a objetar proyectos FIS y la necesidad de contar con el
apoyo de ftems ( maestros, medicos, auxiliares de enfermerfa, etc. ) como condici6n
previa para la aprobaci6n de proyectos.  Estos mecanismos de coordinaci6n se
establecieron -n convenios interinstitucionales con los respectivos ministerios
sectoriales; evolucionando los mismos, en funci6n al fortalecimiento de las instancias
normativas.
Por otra parte el rol del FIS ha sido muy importante para retroalimentar, a traves de su
experiencia, ciertas iniciativas que colaboraron al fortalecimiento de los sectores,
como son las normas estandardizadas de construcci6n en centros de salud y escuelas.
2.2. Estabilidad del equipo profesional y tecnico
Uno de los principales problemas que enfrenta el sector publico en Bolivia es la falta
de continuidad de sus equipos profesionales y tecnicos a causa de los cambios
gubemamentales que afectan la eficiencia de las Instituciones.
El FIS es una instituci6n financiera dependiente del sector publico, por tanto los
cambios de gobierno podfan haber influido negativamente en constantes sustituciones
de sus equipos tecnicos, sin embargo se ha logrado mantener aproximadamente un
50% de su personal que inici6 sus labores en el FSE, factor que ha contribuido a
hacer del FIS una instituci6n que lideriza el financiamiento de la inversi6n social en
Bolivia
El rol desempenlado por el Banco Mundial en coadyuvar al mantenimiento de un
equipo tecnico estable, ha sido muy importante , tanto en la evaluaci6n como en el
control de calidad de las contrataciones de personal.
2.3. Asistencia tecnica otorgada a las instituciones (puiblicas y
privadas) que trabajan con el FIS.
En lo que se refiere a la asistencia tecnica otorgada por el FIS a instituciones con las
que esta relacionado (Ex-Corporaciones de Desarrollo, Alcaldfas, ONGs,
Consultores y otras ) con objeto de fortalecer capacidades locales ha sido poco
satisfactoria, debido a que no estaban dadas las condiciones para realizar un proceso
de transferencia de la tecnologfa FIS, sin embargo este factor se convierte en
prioridad bajo el marco de la Ley de Participaci6n Popular que fortalece las
estructuras de los gobiemos locales.
Sin embargo se debe resaltar el proceso de transferencia tecnol6gica a las
Corporaciones de Desarrollo de Santa Cruz y Tarija, en las que se evidenci6 una
experiencia interesante, cuyo resultado principal fue la capacitaci6n de su personal
tecnico, que ha permitido lograr financiamientos importantes del FIS para estos
departamentos.
3



Tambien debe ponderarse la capacitaci6n otorgada por los t6cnicos del FIS a
consultores, ONGs y supervisores, en la elaboracion y supervisi6n de proyectos,
cuyo resultado principal ha sido el de contar con proyectos de calidad aceptable y
buena.
2.4. Transparencia en sus operaciones
Una preocupaci6n constante del FIS ha sido el de mostrar transparencia en sus
operaciones. Para lograr 6ste prop6sito se enfrent6 el problema de no contar con un
sistema de informaci6n eficaz e integrado que permita tener los controles internos
pertinentes. Esta situaci6n se agudiz6 con el incremento de operaciones que satur6 la
capacidad del sistema VAX de informaciones, por tanto se iniciaron gestiones para
realizar inversiones tanto en Hardware como en Software.
El FIS recibe consecutivas supervisiones tanto de los financiadores externos como de
auditorias externas e internas y de la Contralorfa General de la Naci6n. Los resultados
de estas supervisiones, en terminos generales, son satisfactorios, sin embargo es
prop6sito del FIS mejorar los sistemas de control intemo, tal como lo recomiendan
los informes de supervisi6n.
2.5. Criterios de Focalizaci6n e Intervencion
El FIS desarroll6 metodologias de identificaci6n de zonas que le permiti6 "priorizar"
las poblaciones de mayor carencia del pais, donde puso su atenci6n y esfuerzo. Es
asf que nace el concepto de focalizaci6n fundamentado en dos premisas: a quienes
se desea Ilegar y en que orden.
El FIS es la instituci6n pionera en Bolivia en implementar un sistema de focalizaci6n
basado en una metodologia simple. Para las areas rurales y ciudades menores a
10.000 habitantes se realiz6 la "priorizaci6n rural" y para las ciudades de mas de
10.000 habitantes se aplic6 la "priorizaci6n urbana".
En ambos casos, se defini6 cuatro grupos de prioridad (cuartiles), siendo los grupos
de prioridad 2 y 3 los que el FIS atendi6 prioritariamente.
Priorizaci6n urbana
La metodologia de priorizaci6n consideraba acceso a agua potable, alcantarillado,
electricidad y la magnitud de la poblaci6n para cada zona censal.
Priorizacion rural
La unidad de analisis de prioridad en estos lugares fue el "cant6n"
Los parametros utilizados fueron:
Poblaci6n, Mortalidad infantil (para Salud) y Analfabetismo (para educaci6n)
En un afan de optimizar la eficiencia del FIS, a partir de 1992, se opta por una nueva
"estrategia de intervenci6n" en el area rural. Una de las caracteristicas de esta nueva
estrategia fue que la poblaci6n objetivo sea beneficiada integralmente a traves de
proyectos en servicios basicos ( salud, educaci6n y saneamiento bdsico).
4



Para operativizar la intervenci6n simultanea en los sectores de salud y educaci6n, se
identificaron 33 Distritos de Salud a nivel nacional que contaban con el respaldo del
Ministerio de Previsi6n Social y Salud Publica y de la OPS, mediante convenio
suscrito. Es dentro de cada uno de estos distritos de salud, que el FIS focaliza la
inversi6n social, favoreciendo de manera integral a la poblaci6n objetivo.
El principal impacto de la focalizaci6n fue el de llegar, a traves del financiamiento de
proyectos de inversi6n social, a las poblaciones mas necesitadas del pais, evitando
tomar en cuenta criterios polfticos para la aprobaci6n de proyectos, utilizando en
contrapartida criterios tecnicos y transparentes que respondieron a la metodologfa
establecida.
3.   RELACION CON LOS FINANCIADORES
Las misiones de supervisi6n con la participaci6n de los donantes han sido muy
productivas, en el entendido que las recomendaciones realizadas han merecido una
reflexi6n compartida que ha originado la implantaci6n, en muchos casos, de cambios
estructurales beneficiosos para la Instituci6n.
Una de las Misiones mas importantes fue la Evaluaci6n de Medio Termino del Credito
AIF 2127/B0 (Febrero,1993), que cont6 con representantes del Banco Mundial y co-
financiadores, marcando el inicio para estructurar una segunda fase del FIS con
cambios importantes que recomendaban principalmente: a) profundizar la integralidad
de las intervenciones; b) mejorar el sistema de focalizaci6n y c) lograr el
autofinanciamiento de los gastos adniinistrativos.
Por ultimo, respecto a las solicitudes de no objeciones se enfrentaron demoras que
afectaban los planes operativos del FIS, como consecuencia que las consultas se
realizaban a Washington y obviamente por motivos de comunicaci6n y distancia, las
respuestas no se obtenian oportunamente.
4.   PRINCIPALES BENEFICIOS DEL PROYECTO
4. 1. Dotacion de servicios bdsicos a la poblacion mas necesitada de
Bolivia
A trav6s del financiamiento de proyectos de inversi6n social se ha beneficiado a la
poblaci6n ubicada principalmente en el area rural ( 80% ) y peri-urbana (20%) , que
es donde esta concentrada la pobreza extrema en Bolivia.
Sin embargo se han confrontado problemas para poder Ilegar a la extrema pobreza,
principalmente con el programa de saneamiento basico, debido a que la relaci6n costo-
beneficiario es muy alta para poblaciones dispersas en el area rural, lo que ha
originado que se financien proyectos de saneamiento en poblaciones mas
concentradas.
5



4.2. Presencia Institucional FIS en todo el territorio nacional
El FIS con una oficina central en la ciudad de La Paz y 8 oficinas en cada uno de los
departamentos de Bolivia ha logrado establecer una presencia institucional muy
importante, a traves del financiamiento de proyectos de inversi6n en los sectores de
salud, saneamiento basico y educaci6n.
Las oficinas departamentales, le han permitido lograr una coordinaci6n con las
Corporaciones Regionales, Prefecturas, Cooperativas de agua y alcantarillado,
Municipios, etc. De esta manera el FIS ha sentado presencia y se ha constituido en
una de las Instituciones de referencia locales mas importantes.
Asimismo las oficinas departamentales del FIS, han permitido prestar un mejor
servicio a sus clientes ( solicitantes y beneficiarios ), en lo que se refiere a
proporcionar informaci6n sobre proyectos, contratos y desembolsos, situaci6n que
mejorard con el proceso de desconcentraci6n de funciones y transferencia de
responsabilidades.
4.3. Participaci6n   comunitaria  progresiva   en  los  proyectos
financiados
La incipiente participaci6n comunitaria en los proyectos del FIS era uno de los
factores mds preocupantes debido a que afectaban la sostenibilidad de los proyectos.
Esta participaci6n ha sido escasamente mejorada a trav6s de la promoci6n de
proyectos FIS y principalmente a trav6s de la ejecuci6n de proyectos, modalidad de
autoconstrucci6n, en la cual la comunidad se organiza para la ejecuci6n de su
proyecto, por tanto se da un mayor involucramiento de los beneficiarios.
Sin embargo debe mencionarse que a consecuencia de la aplicaci6n de la Ley de
Participaci6n Popular, la participaci6n de los beneficiarios en los proyectos FIS ha
tenido un efecto extraordinario, que se ird perfeccionando a traves de la capacitaci6n y
del uso de metodologias para la identificaci6n de proyectos (Planificaci6n
Participativa ) y supervisi6n de los mismos ( Comites de Vigilancia).
5   RIESGOS DEL PROYECTO
5.1. Continuidad de los proyectos de inversidn financiados por el FIS
Considerando que en la primera fase del FIS los proyectos contaban con poca
participaci6n comunitaria, el mayor riesgo era la continuidad; sin embargo con las
reformas sociales ha cambiado el escenario y los proyectos aprobados desde la
gesti6n 1994 cuentan con una mayor participaci6n de los comunarios en la
identificaci6n y priorizaci6n de sus proyectos.
El FIS complementard estd participaci6n con un programa de fortalecimiento
(institucional y comunal) en temas relacionados con la operaci6n y mantenimiento de
los proyectos que permitird coadyuvar a la sostenibilidad de los mismos.
6



5.2. Continuidad Institucional del FIS
Otro de los temas que ha sido cuestionado constantemente por los financiadores, es el
horizonte de vida del FIS relacionado con su sostenibilidad financiera como
instituci6n.
En este sentido el FIS ha tenido una propuesta importante, que se implementara a
partir de 1997 , mediante la cual se destinara el 100% de los recursos captados de
fuentes multilaterales y bilaterales a la inversi6n en proyectos sociales y los gastos
recurrentes se financiaran con recursos de contraparte local.
Sin embargo esta situaci6n soluciona parcialmente el tema de la sostenibilidad
financiera que en un futuro pr6ximo debera definirse, como por ejemplo el aspecto
normativo y el financiamiento de la inversi6n con recursos locales.
5.3. Contraparte Local
La contraparte local financiada con recursos del Tesoro General de la Naci6n puso en
riesgo la normal ejecuci6n del proyecto, debido a los constantes retrasos que
afectaron los planes de ejecuci6n del FIS, cuyas consecuencias se reflejaron en
demoras en los pagos a los ejecutores de los proyectos.
Esta situaci6n fue superada con la implementaci6n de la Ley de Participaci6n Popular,
mediante la cual la contraparte local ahora proviene de los recursos co-participaci6n
tributaria administrada por los municipios.
6.  IMPACTO DEL PROYECTO
La evaluaci6n del efecto que los proyectos financiados por el FIS han tenido sobre el
nivel de vida de la poblaci6n beneficiaria, es conocida como evaluaci6n de impacto.
Con asesoramiento del Banco Mundial , en 1993 se inici6 la primera fase con la
recolecci6n de informaci6n en un grupo de provincias rurales del Chaco y otras
provincias seleccionadas, donde el FIS tenia proyectado intervenir; conformando
estos datos la linea de base, es decir la situaci6n ex-ante. En 1997 se procedera con la
segunda fase que concluira con el informe de la evaluaci6n del impacto de los
proyectos FIS en las provincias intervenidas.
Complementando a la evaluaci6n de impacto, el FIS tambien lleva a cabo
evaluaciones internas. Estas evaluaciones tienen metodologias mas sencillas que
privilegian un enfoque de tipo cualitativo, ademas de trabajar con muestras de
pequenio tamanio. El prop6sito de tales evaluaciones es el de determinar las tendencias
de exito o fracaso de los proyectos en relaci6n a los objetivos especificos de los
diversos Programas del FIS, ademas de proporcionar elementos que permitan mejorar
y corregir los procesos internos de la Instituci6n. Se cuenta con dos evaluaciones
concluidas, una para el Programa Agua Potable y otra para el Programa Atenci6n
Primaria en Salud, ademas de una tercera en proceso de elaboraci6n que se referira al
Prograrna de Educaci6n Formal.
7



7.  CONCLUSIONES
Efectuando un analisis de los objetivos planteados en el credito AIF 2127/BO
correspondiente a la primera fase del FIS y su grado de cumplimiento, tenemos los
siguientes resultados:
OBJETIVO GENERAL:
Mejorar la cobertura y calidad de los servicios en salud y educaci6n
Se ha cumplido con el objetivo general a traves del financiamiento de 1,449 proyectos
con recursos provenientes del credito AfF 2127 y co-financiadores. En el programa
de saneamiento basico se financiaron 276 proyectos beneficiando aproximadamente a
453,000 personas, en el programa de salud 453 proyectos, beneficiando
aproximadamente a 2,5 millones de personas, en el programa de educaci6n 708
proyectos beneficiando a aproximadamente 1,7 millones de personas y en apoyo
institucional se financi6 un total de 12 proyectos.
Los principales resultados encontrados en las evaluaciones internas (tendencias exito -
fracaso), indican que hay un incremento en las coberturas con agua segura y que se
satisface la necesidad sentida de la poblaci6n, especialmente mujeres, en disponer de
agua de buena calidad en su propio hogar o muy pr6xima a el. Por otra parte en lo
que respecta al Programa de Atenci6n Primaria en Salud se evidenci6 un incremento
significativo de consultas extemas en los Centros de Salud donde el FIS intervino.
OBJETIVOS ESPECIFICOS:
Transferir una mayor responsabilidad a los gobiernos locales y ONGs.
Este objetivo ha sido escasamente cumplido. En lo que se refiere a la transferencia de
tecnologIa se tuvieron experiencias con CORDECRUZ y CODETAR con resultados
parciales pero satisfactorios, traducidos en proyectos de mejor calidad presentados al
FIS; sin embargo en lo concerniente a los gobiermos locales (municipios) no estaban
dadas las condiciones para una transferencia e incremento de responsabilidades
debido a su extrema debilidad tecnica y ante todo financiera. Esta situaci6n ha
cambiado radicalmente como consecuencia de la aplicaci6n de la Ley de Participaci6n
Popular.
Respecto a las ONGs, a traves de los financiamientos del FIS, se ha logrado mejorar
su potencial de ejecuci6n de proyectos y por otra parte el FIS aprovech6 la tecnologia
de las ONGs en favor de los beneficiarios, alcanzando resultados exitosos,
financiando un total de US$ 17.06 millones a trav6s de ONGs. Un ejemplo para
resaltar es el caso de Mizque en Cochabamba.
Cambiar las prioridades hacia la atencion primaria bdsica y preventiva
en salud y en educacion primaria.
Este objetivo ha sido satisfactoriamente cumplido. El total de las inversiones
establecidas en las categorfas Salud (1) y Educaci6n (2) han sido utilizadas para el
financiamiento de proyectos, en funci6n a lo establecido en el Convenio de Cr6dito.
8



Desarrollar mecanismos que mejoren la focalizacidn de programas
sociales para los pobres
Este objetivo ha sido satisfactoriamente cumplido a traves de la metodologfa de
focalizaci6n diseinada e implementada por el FIS y que fue explicada en el punto 2.5.
Introducir procedimientos que faciliten  la  coordinaci6n  entre los
diferentes actores sociales.
Este objetivo ha sido parcialmente cumplido. En lo referente al relacionamiento con
los ministerios sectoriales se establecieron instrumentos de coordinaci6n tales como el
derecho a las objeciones de proyectos FIS y la otorgamiento de items para el personal
requerido en los proyectos.
Con referencia al relacionamiento con el sector privado (ONGs, Iglesia,etc.) se
establecieron mecanismos de coordinaci6n que implicaron una intervenci6n conjunta
(FIS - ONGs) en proyectos de inversi6n por un monto de US$ 17 millones.
Con los beneficiarios se trat6 de conseguir una mayor participaci6n de estos en los
proyectos FIS, desde la elaboraci6n del proyecto hasta su ejecuci6n. Al respecto, hay
que resaltar la modalidad de ejecuci6n autoconstrucci6n que permiti6 una mayor
participaci6n comunitaria en los proyectos alcanzando una implicaci6n positiva en la
sostenibilidad de los rnismos.
9






IBRD 20516
60~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~62
B R A Z I L                                                                    B O L I V I A
6 (a            i i |                                                                ROADS:
T. R. o  o-s                                  sx- d    }                                                                    M
TRBoc\             /t  9TSortRoso      Eusofl,za     rb4ri                                                    -----Tracks
&,0ar Main
cm                                                                                                                     F- Rbro  j  Perry Lines
~~~~~~-'t                                                                                                                     - Rivers
-~~~~-------2y7jwrt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sIN ~~~~~0                                              Towns
Notioncl Capitol
-ir            \/' '       >   @           18             '     ^<ts                                                              Deportment Boondarier
,'i > o>-     -     International Boundaries
Altiplono
3 -t .. .......... >, ,                               S..n2 'ionJ Vo11eys
/   /      jq   ,., axe         iaao-             -           ''.       -0@                              Valleys
P  E  R  U   t                - uom     i-            SnoAr-
Sol.       S n                B   E    N    I S,                                 ,z       /            50   too   cSO  20oo  250
B enowtUhor  W'eQt                                                 '       / 7     /K//   /                        tILOMETEPS
(1  A,'  P  A   Z             oso. BpoT              RINoSTR'N'tb/D                                                                ILEx
*-'-x.      ch.,Vo~o               So  Ira; *.  .So     >  i        co   1   g           z  S ,/.s           P A  R  A   G  U  A                        2RI
ivLT PAN toA0    c.I    Ri.                              - ,y           /                         I
VIF                                    xO                                                                                  $BLVA
PA~~~ ~   ~     ~      ~~~~~ r~afPy                Or  .TO S        "c7  3nrore R 5.,T. R A Ros  "f    _ O ' 
stoaso     Can ol Aoaoldaft 'poop,.             SANTA CRU      W, 4 ,        __HIP9A..
0~~~~~~~~~~~
20-    ~ ~ ~      ~ ~ ~ ~                                                             7,          PARAGUAY   P..                            conn
02/A S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ A             
ToAmohn   l_  _ /    A Rk G E  N-TJ I N  A    \ .__  _                                           (                 s AH ANTiC
W                                        jrain. SneranO   yErnbarcacd                                  -r ,                                              Ceo .









I M AGING
Report No:         15721
Type: ICR



