Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
SWEDISH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2127-BO
in respect of the
Social Investment Fund Project
(Credit Number 2127-BO)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
Dated July 26, 1991
SWEDISH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2127-BO
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Administrator), acting as Administrator of 
a Grant provided by the GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN (Sweden).
WHEREAS the Recipient has requested the assistance of Sweden in the financing of 
the Social Investment Fund Project (the Project) described in the Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement dated May 7, 1990 for Credit No. 2127-BO (the Development 
Credit Agreement), between the Recipient and the International Development 
Association, acting in its own capacity (the Association);
WHEREAS in consideration of the above-mentioned request, Sweden intends to open 
an account (the Trust Account) and intends to deposit therein an amount of twenty-six 
million Swedish Kronor (SKr 26,000,000) (the Grant) and has, pursuant to an agreement 
of even date herewith between Sweden and the Association, (the Administration 
Agreement), appointed the Association as Administrator of the said Trust Account for 
the purpose of providing assistance to the Recipient;
WHEREAS, the Recipient acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to 
the Recipient under this Agreement shall be considered as part of the bilateral 
development aid extended by Sweden to the Recipient; and
WHEREAS, the Association, as Administrator, has agreed on the basis, inter alia, 
of the foregoing to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions 
Page  2
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the 
"General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" (the General 
Conditions) of the Administrator, dated January 1, 1985, with the same force and 
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following 
modifications thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Grant 
pursuant to the provisions of the Administration Agreement, except that in Sections 
2.01 and 6.02 thereof, the term "Association" shall also include the Association 
acting in its own capacity or as Administrator as the case may be;
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant hereunder;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant Account as defined hereunder; and
(e)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 
7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.01, 12.02 and 12.05 of the General Conditions are deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and 
the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Kronor" and the symbol "SKr" mean the currency of the Kingdom of Sweden;
 
(b)
"Grant Account" means the account to be opened by the Administrator in 
its books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is to be 
credited;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account to be opened by the Recipient 
pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and 
(d)
"SIF" or "Social Investment Fund" means the Social Investment Fund (Fondo 
de Inversion Social), established by the President of the Republic of Bolivia as a 
public entity with juridical personality pursuant to Decreto Supremo No. 22407 of 
January 11, 1990, published in the Official Gazette No. 1634, dated February 19, 1990, 
as amended by Decreto Supremo No. 22452 of March 8, 1990, published in the Official 
Gazette No. 1640, dated March 26, 1990.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of twenty-six 
million Swedish Kronor (SKr 26,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such 
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement among the parties, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.
(b)
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in the respective 
currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
have been paid or are payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in Kronor.
(c)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Grant, open and maintain in 
Page  3
Kronor a Special Account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this  Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, Articles III 
and IV of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement 
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being 
understood that all references therein to the "Association" shall be deemed to be 
references to the Administrator under this Agreement, all references therein to the 
"Credit" shall be deemed to be references to the Grant, and all references therein to 
the "Borrower" shall be deemed to be references to the Recipient.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination; Representation
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective when the Development Credit 
Agreement shall be declared effective by the Association.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Recipient and the 
Administrator hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. The representative designated in Section 8.01 of the Development 
Credit Agreement shall be the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.04. The addresses specified in Section 8.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.05. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit 
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Administration Agreement, the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to Sweden. 
The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the 
Recipient to that effect, Sweden shall ipso facto, from the date specified in such 
notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the
Administrator under this Agreement as if Sweden had been an original party to this 
Agreement, without any further action or formality required on the part of any party, 
and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as 
a party under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jorge Crespo
Authorized Representative
Page  4
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
as ADMINISTRATOR on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Grant Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               Swedish kronor)     to be Financed
(1) Investment                                  90% of amounts
    Subprojects                                 disbursed by SIF
    for health                                  for each Sub-
    under Part A.1                              project for which
    of the Project:                             a Subproject
                                                agreement has
    (a)  Primary Care          3,120,000        been signed
                                                before Decem-
    (b)  Nutrition             3,900,000        ber 31, 1991
    (c)  Basic                 3,900,000
         Sanitation
(2) Investment                                  90% of amounts
    Subprojects                                 disbursed by SIF
    for education                               for each Sub-
    under Part A.1                              project for which
    of the Project:                             a Subproject con-
                                                tract has been
    (a)  Construction          7,020,000        signed before
         of classrooms                          December 31, 1991
         and libraries
    (b)  Equipment,              780,000
         furniture and
         text distribu-
         tion
    (c)  Training                780,000
         programs
(3) IS Subprojects               260,000        90% of amounts
    under Part A.2                              for Subprojects
    of the Project                              disbursed by SIF
                                                for each Sub-
                                                project for which
                                                a Subproject con-
                                                tract has been
                                                signed before
                                                December 31, 1991
(4) Institutional              3,640,000        100% of expendi-
    Development of                              tures made by SIF
Page  5
    SIF                                         before Decem-
                                                ber 31, 1991
(5) Unallocated                2,600,000
         TOTAL           SKr  26,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Institutional Development of SIF" means the salaries, travel, 
and training expenses for SIF managers, excluding its executive director, and 
fixed-term technical staff; equipment, supplies and vehicles; and consultants' 
services, including travel and subsistence of consultants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, and unless otherwise agreed 
by the Association, no withdrawal shall be made in respect of:
(a)
a Subproject unless the Subproject is in accordance with the provisions 
set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to the IDA Development Credit Agreement; and
(b)
expenditures for any Subproject of each of the groups of Subprojects 
identified in paragraphs 1 (a) (iii) and (vi), (b) (iii) and 2 of the Annex to 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement unless: (i) a methodology for selection 
and appraisal of such types of Subprojects and criteria to be met by a Requesting 
Entity to be eligible for the carrying out of an IS Subproject or a Special Subproject 
encompassing the same type of services or activities as an IS Subproject, both 
acceptable to the Association, have been developed by SIF; and (ii) SIF's Evaluation 
Manual has been amended to incorporate such methodology and criteria.
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required during the execution of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of SKr 2,600,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account.
2.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been made out of the Special Account for eligible 
Page  6
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Administrator from the Grant Account in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made to the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant, less the amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal twice the 
equivalent of the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(c)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Administrator 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
theportion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
