Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2127 BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Social Investment Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 7, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2127 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 7, 1990, between the REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from bilateral and multi-lateral aid and 
development organizations (hereinafter "Additional Financiers") loans and grants 
(hereinafter "Additional Funding") to assist in expanding the activities of the Social 
Investment Fund (as hereinafter defined) on the terms and conditions to be set forth 
in agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each of the Additional 
Financiers (the Additional Funding Agreements);
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement, with the modification that the last 
sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"SIF" or "Social Investment Fund" means the Social Investment Fund (Fondo 
de Inversion Social), established by the President of the Republic of Bolivia as a 
public entity with juridical personality pursuant to Decreto Supremo No. 22407 of 
January 11, 1990 as amended by Decreto Supremo No. 22452 of March 8, 1990, published 
in the Official Gazzette on March 26, 1990;
(b)
"ESF" or "Emergency Social Fund" means the Emergency Social Fund (Fondo 
Social de Emergencia) established by the President of the Republic of Bolivia as a 
public entity with juridical personality under Chapter I of Decreto Supremo No. 21137 
of November 30, 1985 and revised by Decreto Supremo No. 21456 of November 28, 1986;
(c)
"SIF Contractual Arrangement" means the contractual arrangement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and SIF pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to such contractual arrangement;
(d)
"ESF Contractual Arrangement" means the contractual arrangement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and ESF pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to such contractual arrangement;
(e)
"Investment Subproject" means a subproject in health or education 
specified in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement selected in accordance with the 
Evaluation Manual (as hereinafter defined) which is to be carried out by a Requesting 
Entity (as hereinafter defined) and to be financed in part out of the proceeds of the 
Credit;
(f)
"IS Subproject" means an eligible subproject for the institutional 
support of Requesting Entities (as defined hereinafter), as specified in the Annex to 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which are implementing Investment Subprojects, and to be 
financed in part out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(g)
"Subprojects" means collectively, Investment Sub-projects, Subprojects, 
IS Subprojects and SIF Subprojects; and the term "Subproject" means any one of such 
Subprojects;
(h)
"Beneficiary Community" means a community, selected in accordance with 
SIF's Promotion Manual (as hereinafter defined), in which a Subproject will be carried 
out;
(i)
"Requesting Entities" means the governmental or non-governmental entities 
involved in health or education activities, and/or the governmental or 
non-governmental entities which meet the eligibility criteria to be included in the 
Evaluation Manual pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, which 
propose to carry out, or are carrying out Investment Subprojects; "Requesting Entity" 
means any one of such Requesting Entities;
(j)
"Supervising Entities" means the governmental or non-governmental 
entities which propose to supervise, or are supervising, the carrying out of 
Subprojects; "Supervising Entity" means any one of such Supervising Entities;
(k)
"Subproject Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between SIF 
and a Requesting Entity and, where applicable, a contractor or supplier, for purposes 
of carrying out a Subproject, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to the Subproject Agreement;
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
"Promotion Manual" means the manual for pre-appraisal of Subprojects, 
including the poverty targeting of such Subprojects, to be adopted by SIF pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 7.01 (c) of this Agreement;
Page  3
(n)
"Evaluation Manual" means the manual for appraisal of Subprojects, to be 
adopted by SIF pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(o)
"MPSSP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Social Welfare and Public 
Health;
(p)
"MEC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education and Culture;
 
(q)
"Coordination Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into between 
the Borrower, through MPSSP and MEC, respectively, and SIF pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement; and
(r)
"SIF Subproject" means (i) an eligible subproject in health or education 
as specified in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 of the Annex to Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, respectively; or a Subproject for restoring or preserving the 
Borrower's cultural patrimony, or (ii) an eligible subproject covering the services or 
activities mentioned in paragraph 2 of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement for 
the institutional support of Requesting Entities which are implementing subprojects of 
the type mentioned in (i) above, and in both cases to be financed from financial 
sources other than the proceeds of the Credit; and the term "Special SIF Subproject" 
means a SIF Subproject, as so defined, to be financed under any of the Additional 
Funding Agreements.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to fifteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
15,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or  such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The  Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Page  4
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2000 and ending April 1, 2030. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2010 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.09. SIF and ESF are respectively designated as representatives of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions in respect of Parts A and B of the Project and in respect of Part C of the 
Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, shall: (i) 
cause SIF to carry out Parts A and B of the Project; (ii) cause ESF to carry out Part 
C of the Project; all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative, health, education and managerial practices; and 
(iii) provide, and cause SIF and ESF respectively to provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A and B, and C of 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into a contractual arrangement, satisfactory to 
the Association, with SIF providing, inter alia, for:
(i)
the transfer of part of the proceeds of the Credit on a grant 
basis to SIF for purposes of carrying out Parts A and B of the 
Project; and
(ii)
the obligation of SIF to carry out Parts A and B of the Project in 
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, including, without limitation, carrying out Parts A and 
B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Procedures 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the Implementation 
Program set forth in Part I of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall, through MPSSP and MEC, respectively, enter into two 
agreements with SIF (the Coordination Agreements), under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Association which shall include the responsibilities 
of MPSSP, MEC and SIF in carrying out and coordinating Part A of the Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall enter into a contractual arrangement, satisfactory to 
the Association, with ESF providing, inter alia, for:
(i)
the transfer of part of the proceeds of the Credit on a grant 
basis to ESF for purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project; 
and
Page  5
(ii)
the obligation of ESF to carry out Part C of the Project in 
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, including, without limitation, carrying out Part C of 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Part II of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the SIF Contractual 
Arrangement, the ESF Contractual Arrangement and the Coordination Agreements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not change, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the SIF 
Contractual Arrangement, the ESF Contractual Arrangement or the Coordination 
Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause SIF, until Project completion, and ESF 
during the period of implementation of Part C of the Project:
(a)
to keep all of the key personnel positions detailed on its organizational 
chart, including those at the director through the executive director level, filled 
with employees possessing experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association, 
and to consult with the Association with respect to replacement of any such key 
personnel prior to any such replacement;
(b)
to employ any fixed-term staff financed in whole or in part out of the 
proceeds of the Credit with persons having qualifications and experience, and on terms 
and conditions of employment, satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)
to establish, and thereafter maintain, a technical control unit 
(Fiscalia), with powers and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to or restriction upon its other reporting 
requirements under the General Conditions and this Agreement, the Borrower shall, and 
shall cause SIF and ESF in respect of their respective Parts of the Project, to 
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes, or threatens to 
interfere, with the progress of the Project or the Subprojects, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance of SIF and ESF of their obligations 
under the SIF Contractual Arrangement and the ESF Contractual Arrangement, or the 
performance of SIF and the Requesting Entities under Subproject Agreements.
Section 3.05. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, Subprojects will be identified, appraised and carried out in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause: (i) SIF to maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of SIF, including separate records and accounts to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A and B of the 
Project and each Subproject; and (ii) ESF to maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations and financial 
condition of ESF, including separate records and accounts to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, and shall cause SIF and ESF to:
 
(i)
have the records, accounts, and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
of SIF and ESF referred to in (a) (i) and (ii) above, 
respectively, including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
Page  6
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements mentioned in (i) 
above for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof as 
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall, and 
shall cause SIF and ESF to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until one year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last disbursement 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause SIF and ESF:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on their respective operations and conduct their affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and managerial practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain their offices, machinery, 
equipment, vehicles, and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and managerial practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Decreto Supremo No. 22407 of January 11, 1990 of the Borrower as amended 
by Decreto Supremo No. 22452 of March 8, 1990, or Decreto Supremo No. 22452 of March 
8, 1990 or the regulatory decree to be enacted pursuant to the provisions of Section 
7.01 (b) of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SIF to perform any of 
its obligations under the SIF Contractual Arrangement or the Coordination Agreements 
or any Subproject Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Page  7
Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that SIF will 
be able to perform its obligations under the SIF Contractual Arrangement or under any 
Subproject Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SIF, or for the suspension of 
its operations;
(d)
Decreto Supremo No. 21456 of November 28, 1986 of the Borrower shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of ESF to perform any of its obligations under the ESF 
Contractual Arrangement;
(e)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ESF, or for the suspension of 
its operations before March 31, 1991;
(f)
ESF shall continue to operate and make any disbursements on subprojects 
being financed by ESF after March 31, 1991.
(g)
Additional Funding Agreements covering an amount of not less than 
$10,000,000 equivalent shall have failed to become effective by September 30, 1990, or 
such later date as the Association may agree or Additional Funding Agreements covering 
an amount of not less than $25,000,000 equivalent shall have failed to become 
effective by March 31, 1991, or such later date as the Association may agree; 
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;
(h)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: (i) the event specified in paragraph (g) of 
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and continue for a period of sixty days; 
(ii) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) or (d) or (e) or (f) of Section 6.01 
of this Agreement shall occur; and (iii) the event specified in paragraph (h) (i) (B) 
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph 
(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the SIF Contractual Arrangement has been entered into between the 
Borrower and SIF;
(b)
that the regulatory decree (Decreto Reglamentario) specifying SIF's 
Page  8
organizational and operational structure has been enacted by the Borrower in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
that the Promotion Manual and the Evaluation Manual have been approved by 
SIF's administrative council in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(d)
that the Coordination Agreements have been entered into in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; and 
(e)
that Additional Funding Agreements have been entered nto in amounts of at 
least $10,000,000 equivalent and commitments, satisfactory to the Association, have 
been received by the Borrower and/or SIF from Additional Financiers in amounts of at 
least $15,000,000 equivalent to cover the Additional Funding needs of the Project; or 
alternative arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, have been made by the 
Borrower and/or SIF to cover such Additional Funding needs.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the SIF Contractual Arrangement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and is legally binding upon SIF and the Borrower in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Coordination Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and are legally binding upon SIF and the Borrower in accordance with their 
respective terms.
Section 7.03. The date of August 7, 1990 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III, IV and V of 
this Agreement and the provisions of Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Planning and Coordination of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Planning and Coordination
Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinacion
Avda. Arce 2147
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINCORD
3280
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  9
With a copy to:
Executive Director
Fondo de Inversion Social
Edificio Banco Central
Piso 12, Casilla 17103
La Paz, Bolivia
Telex:
3528
FSETEL BV
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day, month and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Enrique Garcia Rodriguez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)   Investment Sub-                  )
      projects for                     )
      health under                     )
      Part A.1 of                      )
      the Project:                     )
                                       )
      (a)   Primary Care      1,860,000)
                                       )        90% of amounts
      (b)   Nutrition         2,190,000)        disbursed by SIF
                                       )        for each Sub-
      (c)   Basic Sani-       2,190,000)        project for which
            tation                     )        a Subproject
                                       )        Agreement has been
(2)   Investment Sub-                  )        signed before
      projects for                     )        December 31, 1991
      education under                  )
      Part A.1 of                      )
      the Project:                     )
                                       )
      (a)   Construction      4,100,000)
            of classrooms              )
Page  10
            and libraries              )
   ) 
      (b)   Equipment,          450,000)
            furniture                  )
            and text                   )         90% of amounts
            distribu-                  )         disbursed by SIF
            tion                       )         for each Sub-
                                       )         project for which
      (c)   Training            520,000)         a Subproject
            programs                   )         Agreement has
                                       )         been signed
(3)   IS Subprojects            140,000)         before Decem-
      under Part A.2                   )         ber 31, 1991
      of the Project                   )
(4)   Institutional
      Development of
      SIF:
      (a)   Salaries,         1,000,000         100% of expendi-
            Travel, and                         tures made by
            Training for                        SIF before
            SIF Staff                           December 31, 1993
      (b)   Equipment,          540,000         100% of foreign
            supplies and                        expenditures and
            vehicles                            80% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost)
      (c)   Consultants'        470,000         100%
            services,
            including
            travel and
            subsistence
            of consul-
            tants
(5)   Training under            130,000         100% of expen-
      Part C of                                 ditures made
      the Project                               on or before
                                                March 31, 1991
(6)   Unallocated             1,510,000
      TOTAL                  15,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
"Salaries, Travel, and Training for SIF Staff" means the salaries, travel 
and training expenses for SIF managers, excluding its executive director, and fixed 
term technical staff, in amounts and type of expenditures satisfactory to the 
Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above and unless otherwise agreed 
by the Association, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
1,510,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after January 1, 1990;
(b)
in respect of a Subproject unless the Subproject is  in accordance with 
the provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
Page  11
(c)
expenditures for any Subproject of each of the groups of Subprojects 
identified in paragraphs 1 (a) (iii) and (vi), (b) (iii) and 2 of the Annex to 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement unless: (i) a methodology for selection 
and appraisal of such types of Subprojects and criteria to be met by a Requesting 
Entity to be eligible for the carrying out of an IS  Subproject or a Special 
Subproject encompassing the same type of services or activities as an IS Subproject, 
both acceptable to the Association, have been developed by SIF; and (ii) SIF's 
Evaluation Manual has been amended to incorporate such methodology and criteria; and
(d)
expenditures for Category (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule unless: (i) the ESF Contractual Arrangement has been entered into between the 
Borrower and ESF; (ii) a legal opinion, acceptable to the Association, has been 
furnished to the Association, concluding that the ESF Contractual Arrangement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by and is legally binding upon ESF and the Borrower in 
accordance with its terms; and (iii) the Association shall have approved the course 
outlines, teaching materials, criteria for selection of agencies and the  budgets 
referred to in Part III.2 of Schedule 6 to the Development Credit Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) strengthening 
the basic and preventive health care and primary education services directed towards 
the poorest of its population; and (b) strengthening the capabilities of agencies 
executing infrastructure projects in the identification, appraisal and supervision of 
such projects.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects
 
1.
Investment Subprojects
 
Financing and carrying out of Investment Subprojects within Beneficiary 
Communities.
2.
IS Subprojects
 
Financing and carrying out of IS Subprojects to permit the expansion of the 
services of the Requesting Entity in question so as to reach unserved Beneficiary 
Communities.
3.
Special SIF Subprojects
 
Financing and carrying out of Special SIF Subprojects.
Part B:
Institutional Development of SIF
 
1.
Improvement of SIF's information system and data base intended to enhance SIF's 
ability to design, target and monitor Subprojects.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to SIF to carry out studies related to the 
development and improvement of SIF's financial management and operational capacity.
Part C:
ESF Training of Agencies
 
Carrying out of a training program to selected agencies executing infrastructure 
projects in the appraisal, evaluation and monitoring of projects in their respective 
fields.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Investment Subprojects and IS Subprojects
1.
Investment Subprojects
Page  12
The following are the services and activities to be carried out under Investment 
Subprojects eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(a)
Health
 
(i)
Day care and child nutrition centers: Construction, repair, or 
expansion of facilities, provision of equipment and supplies, and 
financing of selected operating costs (for a maximum of 18 months) 
of centers: (A) providing day care for children of 6 months to 6 
years; or (B) providing meals to children under the age of 14 who 
must work full time;
(ii)
School meal programs: Provision of equipment and selected 
operating costs (for a maximum of 18 months) to assist in 
initiating programs for the distribution of one meal per day to 
children of pre-school age to 12 years in areas judged to suffer 
from significant nutritional deficiencies;
(iii)
Nutrition and training and development programs: An integrated 
program designed to improve the diet of poor rural communities, 
consisting of installation of basic infrastructure (such as wells 
or cisterns and simple greenhouse structures of plastic sheeting), 
provision of simple tools, seeds, and fertilizers, and training 
for beneficiaries in improving the nutritional quality of their 
diets.
(iv)
Basic and primary health care: Construction, expansion, or repair 
of health posts, provision of basic equipment, supplies, and 
medicines, financing of personnel and other operating costs (for a 
maximum of 18 months), training for para-medical personnel 
(nurse's aids, midwives, and health promotion agents), and basic 
health, nutrition and hygiene education programs for Beneficiary 
Communities.
(v)
Immunization campaigns: Provision of medicines and supplies, 
travel expenses, and education and promotion programs for 
Beneficiary Communities required for the carrying out of 
immunization campaigns in areas threatened by epidemics of 
specific diseases and with a high percentage of population in 
SIF's target group.
(vi)
Water supply and basic sanitation: Installation of basic 
infrastructure (e.g. wells, distribution pipes or ducts, 
small-scale sewerage systems or latrines), in marginal urban areas 
and rural communities, combined with training for communities in 
the importance, treatment and use of safe potable water and of 
basic hygiene.
(b)
Education
 
(i)
Construction, expansion, or repair of primary school buildings in 
economically depressed urban areas or rural areas and/or provision 
of equipment, furniture, instructional supplies, or textbooks.
(ii)
Repair or expansion of buildings or rooms for use as libraries in 
Beneficiary Communities, as a complement to ongoing formal or 
informal educational programs; provision of equipment, furniture, 
and reading materials; and financing of operating costs (for up to 
18 months).
(iii)
Repair or expansion of facilities used for short-term training 
programs for adults with less than secondary education, provision 
of tools and supplies, and financing of operating costs (for up to 
18 months).
2.
IS Subprojects
 
The following are the services and the activities to be carried out under IS 
Subprojects eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit:
Construction of new buildings or modification of existing structures, together 
Page  13
with provision of equipment, supplies and financing of initial operating costs (up to 
18 months) necessary to permit installation of a base of operations in an unserved 
Beneficiary Community.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for works and equipment shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and $100,000 or 
more, respectively.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local competitive bidding:
 
Contracts for works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent and 
contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Shopping:
 
Contracts for works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000; for goods estimated to cost less than 
$20,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$600,000, and contracts for minor computer equipment and related software with 
aggregate value not to exceed the equivalent of $150,000, may be awarded on the basis 
of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
3.
Direct Contracting:
 
Computer equipment and related software for the expansion of SIF's existing 
computing system up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $150,000, 
may be procured under a single contract awarded through direct contracting, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works procured under the 
provisions of Part A.1 and Part C.1 hereof; (ii) the first four contracts procured 
under the provisions of Part C.2 hereof; (iii) contracts for Subprojects estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 equivalent or more; (iv) contracts for Subprojects 
which involve more than one goods or works contract; and (v) contracts for the 
purchase of computer equipment and related software following the procedures specified 
in Part C, paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for any such 
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified 
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
Page  14
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist SIF in carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Procedures
I.
SIF Operating Procedures
 
1.
Proposals for Subprojects may be initiated or sponsored by governmental and 
non-governmental entities, community and other groups. Proposals for Subprojects shall 
identify the type of Subproject and the Beneficiary Community, describe the works or 
goods to be financed, describe any goods or works to be provided in kind by the 
Beneficiary Community, identify the Requesting Entity
and its contribution to the financing of the Subproject and, if applicable, propose a 
Supervising Entity.
2.
SIF shall pre-appraise the proposals for Subprojects received in accordance with 
the Promotion Manual, as the same may be amended from time to time in agreement with 
the Association.
3.
SIF shall appraise Subprojects in accordance with the Evaluation Manual. The 
Evaluation Manual shall be modified from time to time, on a basis and in a manner 
acceptable to the Association, so as to introduce guidelines for the evaluation of 
each group of Subprojects identified in paragraphs 1 (a) (iii) and (vi), (b) (iii), 
and 2 of the Annex to Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and criteria for 
the eligibility of Requesting Entities referred to in paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
4.
SIF shall estimate the value of each Subproject, including the imputed value of 
the contribution in kind of the Beneficiary Community, such estimated value to be 
reasonable and acceptable to the Association, and to cover the costs of all goods and 
works necessary to achieve the benefits estimated to result from the Subproject.
5.
SIF shall approve each Subproject on the basis of the criteria set forth in the 
Promotion and Evaluation Manuals and shall submit to the Association for review and 
approval by the Association, prior to entering into the relevant Subproject Agreement 
for such Subproject:
(i)
each Subproject for which the estimated financing to be provided 
by SIF is the equivalent of $250,000 or more;
(ii)
the first ten Investment Subprojects in health and in education, 
respectively;
(iii)
the first two IS Subprojects;
 
(iv)
any Subproject to be carried out through the award of two or more 
contracts; and
(v)
any Subproject including activities or services not included among 
those specified in the Annex to Schedule 2 to the Development 
Page  15
Credit Agreement or in the Evaluation Manual.
6.
The information that shall be provided to the Association with respect to each 
Subproject shall be acceptable to the Association and shall include at least the 
information set forth in the Appendix to this Schedule and, including in respect of 
all Subprojects, a plan for the financing of operating costs related to the 
Subproject.
7.
SIF shall evaluate the eligibility of Requesting Entities for participation in 
the Project in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association.
8.
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to written agreements between SIF, the 
Requesting Entity and, where applicable, a contractor or supplier, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to
the Association which, inter alia, will provide for the following obligations and 
rights:
(i)
the Requesting Entities' obligation to carry out the Subproject 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
appropriate technical, financial and managerial practices and to 
maintain adequate accounts to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Subproject;
(ii)
the requirement that: (A) the goods and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance 
with Schedule 3 of this Agreement; and (B) such goods and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(iii)
SIF's right to inspect, by itself, or jointly with representatives 
of the Association, if the Association shall so request, such 
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in 
the Subproject, the operation thereof and any relevant records and 
documents;
(iv)
SIF's right to obtain all such information as SIF or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the foregoing, the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Subproject and the benefits to be derived from the Subproject;
(v)
SIF's right to suspend or terminate the right of the Requesting 
Entity to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject upon 
failure by any such Entity to perform any of its respective 
obligations under its Subproject Agreement with SIF; and
(vi)
the obligation of the Requesting Entity to report on the progress 
of implementing the Subproject.
9.
SIF shall, in respect of any construction or civil works to be carried out under 
any Subproject, enter into an agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association, with a supervising entity, acceptable to the Association.
II.
Terms and Conditions of Subprojects
 
Subprojects shall be financed on the following terms and conditions:
(i)
financing may be provided on a grant or loan basis;
 
(ii)
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit shall not exceed 90% 
of the actual disbursements of SIF for each Subproject; and
(iii)
a mobilization advance of 20%, or such higher percentage as the 
Association shall agree, of the estimated value of the Subproject 
may be paid upon signing of the Subproject Agreement. Subsequent 
payments may be made on the basis of a percentage, acceptable to 
the Association, of works completed or goods procured, and shall 
be evidenced by written documentation thereof. A retention of 10% 
of the estimated value of the Subproject may be paid upon 
completion of the Subproject, as evidenced by a certificate of 
completion, acceptable to the Association.
APPENDIX TO SCHEDULE 4
Page  16
1.
Key Indicators for Subproject Review by the Association
 
      A.    Basic Subproject Data:
            Subproject Name
            Subproject Code Number
            Subproject Agreement Code Number(s)
            Group (Health or Education)
            Sub-Group
            Type (Infrastructure or Assistance)
            Name and Type of Requesting Entity
            Name of Supervisor
            Requesting Entity and, if applicable, contractor or
              supplier
            Method of Procurement (for all contracts, if more than
              one)
            Related Subprojects, if any
            Other Subprojects in same area
      B.    Subproject Financing:
            Total Subproject Cost
            Amount Requested from SIF
            Amount Approved by SIF
            Counterpart Amount by Requesting Entity
            Counterpart Source
            Value of Beneficiary Community Contribution
            Source of Beneficiary Community Contribution
            Type of Beneficiary Community Contribution
            Source of SIF Financing (borrower, Credit proceeds,
              external donor)
            Amount of Mobilization Advance
      C.    Poverty Targeting:
            Name of:
                  Department
                  Province
                  Canton
                  Locality (Rural) or Neighborhood (Urban)
                  Classification (rural/urban)
                  Community Poverty Index
                  Date of Community Evaluation by SIF
      D.    Subproject Evaluation:
            Description of Subproject
            Estimated duration of subproject execution (SIF-
              financed portion)
            Model Subproject cost (Proyecto Tipo)
            Composition of subproject costs (labor, materials,
              equipment)
            Internal rate of return, where applicable, as per
              Evaluation Manual
            Physical Targets (e.g., area to be constructed, number
              of school lunches, number of desks or textbooks)
            Estimated number of beneficiaries
            Cost per beneficiary
            Evaluator
            Observations
2.    Key Indicators for Subprojects Supervision
      Amount and Date of Disbursements
      Percentage of physical works completed
      Delays, reason
      Changes in contract amounts and arrangements
      Observations
3.    Key Indicators of Subproject Cycle
      Date Request received by SIF
Page  17
      Date Request Assigned to Promotion Unit (Dept. of Health
            or Education)
      Priority Assigned by Promotion Unit
      Date of site visit to Beneficiary Community
      Date of Approval (or other disposition)
      Date Sub-project sent to Legal Department for initiation
            of procurement/contracting process
      Outstanding legal requirements to be fulfilled
      Date of contract signature
      Date of initiation of Sub-project execution
      Date of completion
      Current Status
      Previous Status
      Time Elapsed in Each Phase
      Observations
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
Page  18
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Program for Parts A, B and C
of the Project
Part I:
Actions to be taken by the Borrower and SIF           by (date)
1.    Review with the Association:
      (a)   the progress made by SIF            March 31 each year
            in the implementation of
            the Project
      (b)   SIF's contribution in the
            implementation of the Borrower's
            health and education policies;
            and any modifications that may
            be required for the purposes
            in respect of SIF's role in
            such sectors                        March 31 each year
      (c)   health and education sector
            strategies, expenditures and
            related investment plan for         November 30 each
            the following year                  year
Page  19
      (d)   actions taken by the Borrower
            to provide financing for operat-
            ing expenditures for projects
            within the education and health
            sector for which the Borrower is    November 30 each
            responsible                         year
Part II:
Actions to be taken by SIF                      by (date)
1.    Furnish to the Association terms
      of reference, acceptable to the
      Association, for the following
      studies:
      (a)   poverty and demography              September 30, 1990
      (b)   institutional evaluation
            of SIF                              July 31, 1990
      (c)   Subproject evaluation and
            supervision methodology             July 31, 1990
      (d)   annual monitoring                   December 31 each
                                                year
2.    Furnish to the Association
      revisions to the Evaluation
      Manual, acceptable to the
      Association, which shall include,
      inter alia, evaluation guidelines
      for the Subprojects specified
      in paragraph 1 (a) (iii) and (vi),
      (b) (iii) and 2 of the Annex
      to Schedule 2 to the Development
      Credit Agreement and eligibility
      for Requesting Entities which
      would carry out Subprojects
      covering services and activities
      described in said paragraph 2             September 30, 1990
3.    Without limitation to any other
      monitoring and reporting require-
      ments set forth, or referred to,
      in the General Conditions or the
      Development Credit Agreement:
      (a)   Define methodology for
            baseline indicators and
            submit to the Association
            draft terms of reference
            for baseline survey of
            Beneficiary Communities             July 31, 1990
      (b)   Finalize arrangements for
            the establishment of base-
            line indicators and sub-
            sequent impact surveys of
            Beneficary Communities              September 30, 1990
      (c)   Submit to the Association
            annual reports on the progress
            made by SIF in its monitoring       October 31 of each
            program                             year
      (d)   Submit to the Association a
            report on the first impact
            survey of Beneficiary
            Communities                         March 31, 1993
Page  20
      (e)   Furnish to the Association
            the following reports:
            (A)   summaries of all Sub-         the 15th day of
                  projects approved by          each month
                  SIF, source of financing,
                  status of processing
                  or execution, and key
                  monitoring indicators;
            (B)   quarterly progress            Every July 1,
                  reports reviewing             October 1,
                  sources and uses of           January 1, and
                  funds, and highlighting       April 1, beginning
                  problems identified by        July 1, 1990.
                  SIF;
            (C)   quarterly review of           Every July 1,
                  procurement under             October 1,
                  Subprojects;                  January 1, and
                                                April 1, beginning
                                                July 1, 1990
            (D)   reports presenting the        1 month after the
                  results of the annual         review
                  reviews specified in
                  Part I, item 1 above;
                  and
            (E)   a final report on imple-      June 30, 1993
                  mentation experience
                  and the outcome of the
                  first three years of
                  the SIF Program.
4.    Furnish to the Association:
      (a)   yearly budget as agreed with        November 30
            corresponding ministries              each year
            (including Finance, and
            Planning and Coordination,
            where applicable); and
      (b)   SIF's programming of Sub-           January 31 of
            projects to be committed              each year
            during the following twelve
            months taking into account
            the budget referred to
            above and the progress made
            in obtaining Additional
            Funding
Part III
Actions to be taken by the Borrower and ESF     by (date)
1.    The Borrower and ESF shall:
      Close down ESF's operations according
      to the following timetable:
      (a)   Terminate disbursements under       March 31, 1991
            ESF subprojects
      (b)   Transfer all physical assets        June 30, 1991
            of ESF to SIF
      (c)   Complete legal process for          September 30, 1991
            termination or liquidation
            of ESF
2.    ESF shall:
Page  21
      (a)   (i) Furnish to the Association      Before commencing
            final course outlines, accept-      implementation of
            able to the Association for         a training program
            each training seminar, together
            with complete detailed budgets
            thereof; and (ii) thereafter
            carry out each training seminar
            following the course outlines
            and budgets referred to above.
      (b)   (i)   Furnish to the Association:   Before commencing
                                                implementation of
                  (A)  the list of teaching     a training program
                       materials needed for
                       the training program
                       to be carried out by
                       ESF; and
                  (B)  the selection criteria
                       for the agencies to
                       be selected as benefi-
                       ciaries of such training;
                       and
             (ii)  Thereafter, carry out the
                   training program utilizing
                   the materials and following
                   the criteria referred to
                   above
      (c)   Begin the training program          July 1, 1990
            under Part C of the Project
      (d)   Finalize such training              March 31, 1991
            program
