Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
SWEDISH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2127-BO
for the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
in respect of the Social Investment Fund Project
(Credit Number 2127-BO)
in the
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
Dated April 26, 1991
SWEDISH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2127-BO
ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 1991 between the GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN 
(Sweden) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) to provide 
for the administration by the Association of certain funds to be made available by 
Sweden to the REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Recipient).
WHEREAS (A) By an agreement (the Development Credit Agreement) dated May 7, 1990 
for Credit No. 2127-BO, between the Recipient and the Association, the Association 
extended a development credit (the Credit) to the Recipient in an amount equivalent to 
fifteen million, one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,100,000) to 
assist in the financing of the Social Investment Fund Project (the Project) described 
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(B)
Sweden wishes to make available to the Recipient a grant (the Grant) in 
an amount of twenty six million Swedish Kronor (SKr 26,000,000) to further assist in 
the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS, the Association, at the request of Sweden, has agreed to administer the 
Grant upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and 
the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"SIDA" means the Swedish International Development Authority, an agency 
of Sweden;
(b)
"Kronor" and "SKr" mean the currency of the Kingdom of Sweden;
 
(c)
"General Conditions" means the "General Conditions applicable to 
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association dated January 1, 1985;
(d)
"Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol "SDR" mean special drawing rights 
as valued by the International Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of 
Agreement;
(e)
"Closing Date" means the date specified in the Development Grant 
Agreement as defined below after which the Association may, by notice to the 
Recipient, terminate the right of the recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant;
(f)
"Trust Account" means the Association Account "T" with Sveriges Riksbank 
Bank in Sweden to which the amount of the Grant shall be credited; and
(g)
"Development Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Association and the Recipient pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. For the purpose of this Agreement, Sweden shall deposit the 
following amounts in the Trust Account:
(a)
SKr 13,000,000, promptly after the effectiveness of this Agreement;
 
(b)
SKr 13,000,000, promptly upon receipt by Sweden from the Association of a 
request for deposit of said amount, together with a report covering the expenditure of 
the amount referred to in paragraph (a) above.
The funds in the Trust Account attributable to the Grant may be comingled with other 
trust fund assets maintained in the Trust Account and shall be freely exchangeable by 
the Association with other currencies in order to facilitate their disbursement.
Section 2.02. The Association shall disburse from the Trust Account such amounts 
attributable to the Grant as shall from time to time be needed to meet the costs of 
goods and services financed or to be financed pursuant to Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement. Such disbursements shall be effected on the basis of applications for 
withdrawals for eligible expenditures submitted by the Recipient in accordance with 
the Association's normal disbursement procedures for withdrawal and disbursement of 
proceeds of credits made by the Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist in defraying the cost of administration and 
other expenses incurred by the Association under this Agreement, the Association may 
invest and reinvest the funds in the Trust Account attributable to the Grant, pending 
their disbursement to the Recipient, and may retain for its own account the income 
from any such investment or reinvestment.
ARTICLE III
Administration of the Grant
Section 3.01. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Sweden, shall enter 
into a Development Grant Agreement and such other agreements with the Recipient, as it 
may deem appropriate but consistent with the terms and conditions of the Development 
Credit Agreement (excluding the debt service provisions thereof) for the purpose of 
assisting in financing the Project. Such agreement or agreements with the Recipient 
shall, inter alia, provide that the proceeds of the Grant may be withdrawn by the 
Recipient to finance the reasonable cost of goods required for the Project and 
otherwise eligible for financing under the Development Credit Agreement, and that the 
amounts to be withdrawn need not be repaid and shall bear no interest or other 
charges. A copy of each such agreement shall be furnished to Sweden.
Page  3
Section 3.02. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Sweden, shall have 
the sole responsibility for supervision of the Project.
Section 3.03. Sweden and the Association shall consult from time to time, at 
their mutual request, on all matters arising out of this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Association shall keep Sweden informed of the progress of the 
Project. To that end, the Association shall furnish to Sweden biannual progress 
reports relating to the Project.
Section 3.05. The administration and enforcement of the provisions of the 
Development Grant Agreement and of any other agreement entered into between the 
Recipient and the Association for the purposes of this Agreement shall be handled 
solely by the Association and the Association specifically reserves the right, at its 
discretion and without notice to Sweden, to exercise,  refrain from exercising or 
waive any rights under such agreement or agreements or to modify any provision 
thereof, provided, however, that before suspending the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals of funds under such agreement or agreements, the Association shall inform 
Sweden and afford Sweden a reasonable opportunity for consultation with the 
Association.
Section 3.06. The Association shall inform Sweden of any proposed significant 
modification to the Development Credit Agreement and shall afford Sweden a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with the Association before effecting any such 
modification.
Section 3.07. The Association shall exercise the same care in the discharge of 
its functions under this Agreement as it exercises with respect to the administration 
and management of its own affairs and shall have no further responsibility to Sweden 
in respect thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Association shall maintain separate records and ledger 
accounts in respect of the funds in the Trust Account. At the completion of each 
fiscal year of the Association during which any funds remain in the Trust Account that 
are attributable to the Grant, the Association shall prepare a financial statement, in 
United States dollars or Kronor, at the discretion of the Association, with respect to 
the Grant and furnish a copy to Sweden.
Section 4.02. The Association shall cause the records and accounts with respect 
to the Grant to be audited by the Associations' external auditors for each fiscal year 
that funds attributable to the Grant shall remain in the Trust Account and shall 
furnish the report of such audit by said auditors to Sweden. The Association may 
deduct the costs of such audits from the income realized from the investment or 
reinvestment referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement in the Trust Account 
attributable to the Grant.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and, subject to the provisions of this Article, shall continue in effect until 
all disbursements have been made from the Trust Account to the Recipient and any 
cancelled portion of the Grant shall have been returned to Sweden.
Section 5.02. If, at any time it appears to either party that the purposes of 
this Agreement can no longer effectively or appropriately be carried out, this 
Agreement may be terminated at
the initiative of such party after ninety (90) days' written notice to that effect.
Section 5.03. Upon termination of this Agreement, unless the parties agree on 
another course of action, any agreement or provision thereof entered into by the 
Association, as Administrator on behalf of Sweden, shall be assigned to Sweden which 
shall accept such assignment and any funds or other property of Sweden held hereunder 
by the Association shall be returned to Sweden, and the Association's administration 
hereunder shall be considered terminated.
Page  4
Section 5.04. Promptly after termination of this Agreement, and in any event not 
later than six months after the Closing Date, the Association shall furnish to Sweden 
a final report and a financial statement on the Trust Account, together with an 
opinion of the Association's external auditors on such statement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. SIDA is designated as representative of Sweden for all purposes of 
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement of the 
parties hereto.
Section 6.03. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement, and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement, shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand, mail, telegram, cable or telex 
to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given, or made at such party's 
address hereinafter specified, or at such other addresses as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are:
For Sweden:
The Director General
Swedish International Development Authority
S-10525, Stockholm
Sweden
Cable address:
Telex:
 
SIDA
11450
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names, as of the day and year first above written.
THE GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN
By /s/ Eivor Halkjaer
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  5
