Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLfILE             COPY
Report No. 2570
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
ETHIOPIA WOLAMO FIRST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 169-ET)
June 28, 1979
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Ethiopian Dollar = 0.48674 US$
ABBREVIATIONS
ADS        =     Agricultural Development Services, Nairobi
AIDB       =     Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
CADU       =     Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit
CMS        =     Cooperative Marketing Center
DBE        =     Development Bank of Ethiopia
ESEC       =     Ethiopian Spice Extraction Company
MCC        =      Marketing Cooperative and Credit
MNDC       =     Ministry of National Community Development and Social
Affairs
WADU       =     Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit
WFCU       =      Wolamo Farmers Cooperative Union
WFP        =     World Food Program (of the United Nations)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Project Performance Audit Report
ETHIOPIA WOLAMO FIRST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 169-ET)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface                                                                  ii
Basic Data Sheet                                                        iii
Disbursement Table                                                       iv
Highlights                                                                v
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.        Summary                                                          1
Background                                                       1
The Project                                                      1
Implementation                                                   3
Impact of Project                                                5
II.       Main Issues                                                      7
Project Staffing                                                 7
Record Keeping and Accounting                                    9
Cooperative Structure                                           10
Livestock Development                                           10
Coffee Improvement Program                                      11
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.        Introduction                                                    13
II.       Project History                                                 13
III.      Project Targets                                                 15
IV.       Organization and Management                                     16
V.        Accomplishment and Extent of Target Fulfillment                 19
VI.       Project Cost, Financing and Disbursement,
and Accounts and Audit                                        28
VII.       Impact of the Project                                          33
VIII.     Conclusions                                                     40
Annexes
Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- ii -
Project Performance Audit Report
ETHIOPIA WOLAMO FIRST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 169-ET)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the Wolamo First Agricultural
Development Project in Ethiopia, for which Credit 169-ET was approved in
November 1969 in the sum of US$3.5 million and fully disbursed by
December 31, 1974, 18 .months ahead of the original closing date. It
was followed by a Second Wolamo (Wolaita) Development Project credit
for US$12.0 million which was approved in June, 1974. The latter was
essentially an extension of the programs begun under Wolamo I to a wider
geographical area.
The audit report consists of an audit memorandum prepared
by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and a Project Completion
Report (PCR) dated May 2, 1977. The PCR was prepared by the Eastern
Africa Region based on a country visit in October/November 1976.
The audit memorandum is based on a review of the Appraisal
Report (No. PA-9a) dated October 8, 1969, the President's Report (P-745)
of October 8, 1969, the Credit Agreement dated November 26, 1969 and
the PCR; correspondence with the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda
on project issues as contained in relevant Bank files also have been
reviewed and Bank staff associated with the project have been
interviewed.
An OED mission visited Ethiopia in December 1978. Discussions
were held with the Ministry of Agriculture and former project officials
in Addis Ababa, and with present project officials and farmers during
a visit to the project area. The information obtained and observations
made during that mission were used to evaluate the conclusions of the
PCR.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on March
28, 1979 for comment. No comments have, however, been received.
The audit agrees with most of the major findings and conclusions
of the PCR. The memorandum draws further attention to and elaborates on
issues which merit further discussions, including project staffing, record
keeping and accounting, development of cooperatives, livestock development
and a coffee improvement program.
OED wishes to acknowledge the valuable assistance provided by
the Government, previous and present project staff, and farmers, which
contributed so valuably to this report.






- iii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
ETHIOPIA WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 169-ET)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal               Actual or
Item                                       Expectation          Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (USS million)                5.1                    4.2
Underrun (2)                                                         18
Credit Amount (US$ million)                                            3.5
Disbursed                                                            3.9 1/
Physical Components Completed                  11/75                  6/74
Completed (S)                                   -                     100
Economic Rate of Return (2)                     13                    10
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                                     Actual or
Item                         Plan                  Revisions           Est. Actual
First Mention in Files                                                                    04/64
Government's Application                                                                   12/64
Negotiations                                                                              07/69
Board Approval                                                                         10/21/69
Credit Agreement Date                                                                  11/26/69
Effectiveness Date                          2/27/70                 4/30/70            04/28/70
Closing Date                                6/30/76                                    06/30/76
Borrower                                               Empire of Ethiopia
Executing Agency                                       Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit (WADU)
Fiscal Year of Borrower                                July 1 - June 30
Follow-on Project Name                                 Second Wolaita Agricultural Development
Project
Credit Number                                        486-ET
Amount (USs million)                                 12.0
Credit Agreement Date                                6/26/74
MISSION DATA
Month,       No. of      No. of                      Date of
Year       Weeks        Persons       Manweeks      Report
Preparation                          5/65       1.3           2             2.6         6/30/65
Pre-appraisal 2/                11-12/67        1.7           4             6.8        12/28/67
Appraisal 2/                        10/68       3.4            5           17.1         10/08/68
Toctas                                                             26.5
Supervision      I 2/               5/70        1.0           1             1.0         6/12/70
Supervision     I12/                 5/70       1.0            1            1.0         6/12/70
Supervision     II2/               10/70       1.3            2            2.6        10/11/70
Supervision    III2/               5/71        1.7           2             1.7 4/      6/07/71
Supervision     IV 2/              10/71        1.7            1            0.9 4/       1/24/72
Supervision      V 2/             4-5/72        2.0           3             3.0 4/      5/31/72
Supervision     VI 3/              10/72        0.9            1            0.9        11/28/72
Supervision   VII 3/                3/73        0.9            1            0.9         3/22/73
Supervision  VIII 3/               10/73        1.0            2            2.0        10/17/73
Supervision     Ix 3/              10/74        0.6            1            0.6        11/19/74
Sub-total                                                             13.6
Completion 2/                   10-11/76        1.4            2            2.8         5/02/76
Total                                                                 42.9
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                                  Ethiopian dollar (E$) 5/
Year:
Appraisal Year Average (1969)                                  Exchange Rate:   US$1 - E$ 2.50
Average (1970-75)                                                               US$I - E$ 2.23
Completion Year (1976)                                                          US$I - E$ 2.07
1/  Includes US$0.4 million exchange rate adjustment.
2/  Headquiartvrs mission.
3/  RMEA mission, PMEA unltil October 1973.
4/  Joint suipervision of Wolarno and Humera, 30-50 line allocation.
5/  Presently BIRR.



I



- iv -
Project Performance Audit Report
ETHIOPIA WOLAMO FIRST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 169-ET)
Disbursement Table
(US$ million, cumulative)
End of                  1'
Fiscal Year       June 1971-'        Actual              Actual as
June 30        Estimate          Disbursement         % of Estimate
(US$ Disbursements)
1970            0.0                 0.0
1971            1.5                 0.9                   60
1972            2.0                  1.9                  95
1973            2.2                 2.7                  123
1974            2.8                 3.4                  121
1975            3.3                 3.5                  106
1976            3.5                 3.5                  100
1/ No estimate was made in the appraisal report. This estimate
is from the June 1971 supervision report.






- v -
Project Performance Audit Report
ETHIOPIA WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 169-ET)
HIGHLIGHTS
Wolamo Phase I was the first of two agricultural development
projects in the Wolamo Awraja (sub-province) of Ethiopia. It provided for
the reorganization and development of 6,000 farms in the highlands and the
settlement of about 1,050 families in two separate areas in the lowlands.
The main objectives were to increase crop and livestock output
and farm family incomes. The project was designed essentially as a package
program to settle farmers and to provide technical assistance, infrastructure,
and marketing facilities for small farmers in the area.
The project was highly successful in the settlement program
and in increasing crop production in both the settlement and highland areas.
Implementation was much faster than expected and the project was completed
18 months ahead of schedule, with a similar shortening of the disbursement
period. Efforts to increase livestock production and coffee marketing
were not as successful, however.
Partly because of the poor performance of these latter two
components, the rate of return is estimated now to be around 10% compared
with 13% projected at appraisal.
Other points which may be of special interest are:
-  yields of major crops were higher in the fourth year of
project than those projected at appraisal for ninth year
of development (PCR para. 7.03);
- the project extension service was highly successful
in disseminating improved production methods to
farmers (PCR paras. 5.08, 5.09 and 5.10);
- significant problems were encountered in filling high
level project management positions with expatriates and
Ethiopians (PPAM paras. 36, 37, 38, PCR para. 4.04);
- livestock component was inadequately prepared (PPAM paras.
27, 28, PCR para. 5.16);
- cooperatives were not properly organized to market members'
products at the best prices (PPAM paras. 46, 47); and
- in view of its heavy reliance on extension and government
services, the project design, although successful, does not
seem replicable in the Government's eyes (PCR para. 8.01(c)).






Project Performance Audit Memorandum
ETHIOPIA WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 169-ET)
I. SUMMARY
Background
1.        The Wolamo project had a long gestation period.     Between 1960
and 1964 much correspondence and discussion took place between the
Bank and the Imperial Government of Ethiopia (IGE) concerning the
possibility of the Bank providing assistance in establishing an agri-
cultural credit institution. A formal request to finance such a project
was received from the Government in 1964 and a project preparation mission
was sent to Ethiopia in 1965. As a result of this mission it was felt
that further work was required. The Bank thought that a credit project
should be focussed on a particular geographical area whereas the Govern-
ment wanted to develop a general agricultural credit institution.
2.        Other missions were sent to Ethiopia between 1966 and 1969
in efforts to firm up a project agreeable to both the Bank and IGE.
During this period the project concept changed from one of general
agricultural credit to specific area development. The appraised project
was designed to rehabilitate and develop two specific areas in the
southwest part of Ethiopia about 200 km from Addis Ababa: a densely
populated area on a plateau and the settlement of largely un-
inhabited lands some 1,500 meter lower in altitude to the southeast of
the former; both areas near the town of Soddu. The project, though
focussed on a particular area, was not the type of credit project
originally conceived by the Bank.
3.        The final project was partly modeled after the Chilalo Agricultural
Development Unit (CADU) that had been established by the Swedish Inter-
national Development Authority (SIDA) 75 km south of Addis Ababa.
4.        The project appraisal mission was in Ethiopia in November
1968; a credit for US$3.5 million was negotiated in June 1969, and the
agreement was signed in November 1969.
The Project
5.        The credit helped finance the first phase (six years) of the
Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit (WADU), an integrated program for
improvement of agriculture in the Wolamo Awraja (sub-province) of Sidamo
Province. It was the second integrated agricultural development project
(CADU was the first) to be initiated under the Third Five-year Development
Plan.



- 2-
6.         Total project cost was estimated at US$5.1 million.      In
addition to the IDA credit for US$3.5 million, the project was to be
financed as follows: IGE, US$1.4 million, the United Kingdom US$0.1
million (for aerial photography) and US$0.05 million by the World
Food Program.
7.         Project funds would finance staff salaries, buildings, livestock,
equipment and seasonal farm inputs. The main components were:
(i)   land planning and settlement; reorganization of the
holdings in the highlands and establishment and supervision
of new settlements in the lowlands;
(ii)   road construction, land clearing and soil erosion control
works both in the settlements and the highlands areas;
(iii)   development of water supplies in the settlements and
improvement of existing supplies in the highlands;
(iv)   establishment of extension services in both areas, an
extension staff and farmer training center; and provision
of cattle inoculation services;
(v)   construction of coffee processing and general marketing
centers for agricultural products; and
(vi)   provision of implements, cattle and current production
inputs (fertilizers, seeds, etc.) through in-kind credit
to farmers.
8.         The overall project objective was to increase agricultural
production and incomes of 3,750 small farmers through improved production
techniques for maize, wheat, teff, coffee, cotton, chillies, tobacco
and cattle. Average net farm income at full development was expected to
increase by about Eth$100 in the highlands area and provide a total net farm
income in the settlements of US$435.
Management and Organization
9.         The overall responsibility for management of the project lay in
the Ministry of Agriculture. An inter-ministerial management committee
was to be set up under the chairmanship of the Minister of Agriculture
for monitoring general policy decisions regarding the project including
budgets, staffing and coordination.
10.        The direct operation of the project was to be under the Wolamo
Agricultural Development Unit (WADU) to be established by the project
and headed by a project director, an expatriate. The Deputy Director
was expected to be an Ethiopian who would gain project experience and
eventually take over direction of the project.



- 3 -
Implementation
Effectiveness
11.       The project became effective on April 1970, six months after
the credit agreement had been signed. Some delay occurred because the
Ethiopian Parliament did not approve the project as quickly as expected.
Procurement, Disbursement, and Accounting
12.       At appraisal it was expected that the project would be completed
within six years of commencement and that disbursements would end by June
30, 1976, six and one-half years after the credit agreement was signed.
Within one year after signing it became apparent that the project was
going well and was moving ahead of schedule in disbursements. Both the
project and disbursements were completed one and one-half years ahead of
schedule; the project in June and disbursements in December 1974.
13.       Total cost of the project was Eth$2.0 million less than
estimated at appraisal. Expenditures for vehicles, tractors, machines,
seasonal farm inputs, expatriate staff and operational maintenance were
all less than estimated. Costs of expatriate staff, machinery and equip-
ment were overestimated the most; by 37 and 45 per cent respectively.
These differences are explained mainly by unfilled expatriate positions
and by devaluations of the US$ dollar.
14.       Accounting, record keeping and auditing were unsatisfactory
throughout much of the project implementation period. It was not until
late in the project implementation period that some improvement in
accounting procedures was made. An external consulting firm tried to
audit the project accounts but could not do so because of laxity in general
record keeping and accounting. Adequate records were never available for
all facets and sections of the project, even to the end of the project.
Taking into account04he follow-on project (Second Wolaita Agricultural
Development Project- ) WADU's accounts are now five years behind schedule
according to the present external auditors.
Physical Components
15.       Mapping.   Photo mosaics of the 317,000 ha of the Wolamo Awraja
were prepared; aerial surveys and mapping of 15,000 ha in the highlands
and 53,000 ha in the settlements were carried out quickly through U.K.
technical assistance as envisaged at appraisal. This work was a pre-
requisite for laying out and assigning of farms in the settlement areas
and for reorganization of farms and implementation of conservation works
in the highlands.
1/ The name of the second project was changed to Wolaita because the term
Wolamo is disliked by the people of the area.



- 4 -
16.       Settlement and Reorganization.    At project completion, 1,622
farmers were settled in the lowlands compared with 1,050 expected at
appraisal. None of the expected reorganization and consolidation of
existing holdings in the highlands was accomplished in Phase I.
17.       Roads.   At the completion of the project it was estimated
that 214 km of roads in the highlands and 265 km in the settlements had
been completed. These figures compare with the appraisal expectation
of 190 km in the highlands and 185 km in the lowlands. After the roads
were built maintenance problems arose because no provision was made in
the credit for road maintenance and the Imperial Highway Authority (IHA)
refused to take any action. However, provision was made in the second
project for road maintenance.
18.       Soil Conservation.   According to available data 3,000 ha out
of a total farmed area of 6,300 ha were provided with soil conservation
measures and works in the settlements but only 490 ha in the highlands.
19.       Water Supply.   It is not clear in the appraisal report what
water supply systems were expected to be developed under the project.
Costs for water works, roads, and bridges were lumped together, totalling
US$132,000. Through the project an estimated 20 protective structures for
springheads were constructed plus a weir and diversion dam at Hembicho in
the highlands. A complete water system was installed at the project farm
and headquarters in Soddu, but little work was done in the settlements.
20.       Coffee Improvement and Processing.    Of the four coffee processing
centers envis/aged at appraisal only two were constructed because five
private centers were built after commencement of the project. Because
of this added processing capacity (private and WADU's) the price of coffee
to farmers improved, which was the primary objective of this component.
21.       Cooperatives.   WADU organized 11 cooperatives (WADU Group
Marketing Organization) and market centers in the highlands and two
cooperatives and market centers in the settlements. At appraisal it was
envisaged that only three c:ooperatives and marketing centers would be
established in the highlands. No data have been assembled to show if
and to what extent these cooperatives have benefited farmers in the area.
22.       Extension Services.    The extension program turned out to
be highly successful and was able to reach an estimated 10,000 farmers
compared with the appraisal estimate of 6,000. This was accomplished
by establishing eleven extension areas instead of the three enviy7ged at
appraisal. There are 80 farmers to each senior field assistant.-
A training center for formal extension training was completed in 1972 and
farmers were taught general agriculture and cooperative principles and
methods.
1/ This high ratio, although apparently very effective, could not be
expected to be duplicated in country-wide extension services because
of the high cost involved.



23.       Agricultural Credit.    The project provided a revolving credit
fund to supply farmers with in-kind credit for farm inputs, implements
and cattle and cash credit for hiring labor. Most of these credits
had to be repaid within nine months. Credit granted for the purchase of
inputs rose from Eth$75 thousand in 1970/71 to over Eth$800 thousand
in 1973/74. Total credit granted increased along with cooperative member-
ship which rose from 1,700 to 9,000 over this period. On the negative
side, the repayment rate declined from 100 per cent in 1970/71 to 84 per
cent in 1973/74.
Impact of Project
General
24.       Overall, the project was successful in achieving many of
the production targets. The economic rate of return is now estimated
at 10 per cent compared with 13 per cent at the time of appraisal.
In addition to lack of achievement of certain targets discussed below, this
difference is the net result of changing prices and the use of a shadow
price of foreign exchange 30 per cent above the official rate. (The
official rate was used at appraisal.) When the official exchange rate
is used, the re-estimated rate of return is 6 per cent.
Production
25.        Crops.  The project had a significant impact on crop production
by the end of the Phase I, 1974. Yields of most cr ys in year 2 of the
project were higher than those forecast for year 9.-       However, total
production of some crops fell short of estimates; in the 1973/74 crop
year the following production levels were achieved compared with
appraisal estimates for year 9.
Percentage of
Crop                         Year 9 production target
Cotton                                    26
Chillies                                  35
Teff                                     368
Wheat                                    150
Maize                                    215
1/ There is the possibility that yields estimated in the appraisal
were too low because of poor baseline data, see PCR para. 7.03 iii.
Howevet, the first project director believes that yield increases
were higher than those indicated in PCR para. 7.02. The Regional
Mission in Eastern Africa has analyzed this question of yield
increases due to the project and has been unable to come to a definite
conclusion. The problem of estimating incremental yields is compounded
by effects of the second phase project.



- 6 -
26.       The significant achievement for food crops might be explained
by farm families' need for food security. Whereas before the project
Wolamo was a grain deficit area, it now exports considerable amounts
each year. The project was not expected to increase coffee production
but to improve its quality and price through better processing. This
objective was attained, but primarily because of processing developed by the
private sector outside the project (PPAM para. 20).
27.       Livestock.   Livestock production did not fare as well as crop
production. The livestock component consisted of: inoculation and
vaccination.of cattle to control rinderpest, anthrax, pleuro-pneumonia
and blackleg diseases that were prevalent in the highlands; destocking of
the highlands to achieve a better balance between livestock numbers
and available forage; and the introduction of artificial insemination to
produce cross-breeds of local stock and imported animals.
28.       The disease control program was carried out with significant
success but the destocking program in the highlands was never implemented.
With regard to the herd improvement program, WADU has established a high
grade Friesian dairy herd at the Project Farm and distributed bulls to
development centers. However, farmers in the area have been skeptical
of the mating compatibility of imported and local stock and have not accepted
the imported stock as "true cattle". As a consequence, very few cross-breeds
have been produced.
Farm Incomes
29.       No detailed farm income estimates for the highlands were made at
appraisal. Farmers' cash income in the area as a whole was expected to
increase by US$50 to US$130 per annum. Cash income for the average
settlement farm was estimated at US$175 based on a detailed budget. These
cash incomes would be in addition to subsistence needs. No present estimate
of income of farms in the highlands is available but the estimated average
farm cash income in the settlements is now double the appraisal estimate.
Management and Staffing
30.       Overall the project was successful despite continuing problems
of management. The two committees - the Interministerial Committee and
the Wolamo Development Committee - that were set up under the project
to advise on overall policy and provide a liaison between WADU and local
authorities met irregularly and never played a strong role in the project.



- 7 -
31.       As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Project Director was
appointed shortly after the credit was approved. He exercised strong
control over the project and was mainly responsible for the project
getting off to a good start and the credit being disbursed ahead of
schedule. He remained with the project for three years. The Borrower
delayed the appointment of a successor, not wanting to appoint another
expatriate. Because the first deputy director, an Ethiopian, had quit
shortly before the first director left the project, it took eight months
before an Ethiopian was appointed as project director with Bank approval.
Because of this delay, and because some staff were dissatisfied with the
new leadership they resigned, compounding the already serious staffing
problem.
32.       At appraisal it was envisaged that eight high-level posts
would be staffed by expatriates but only five of these posts were filled
at any one time. The filling of posts by Ethiopians was even more diffi-
cult, especially at the highest levels. Qualified people who were
interested in working at Soddu could not be found. An apparently qualified
Chief Financial Officer was hired shortly after the project was initiated,
but stayed only two years.
33.       Throughout Phase I, and even in Phase II, staffing with people
from the Wolamo district has been difficult. None of the present high level
staff is from the district. According to the present management, local
people with the requisite training are not available.
II. MAIN ISSUES
A. Project Staffing
34.        It is paradoxical that the project was successful despite the
serious staffing problems that plagued it. This appears to be due to the
fact that an effective project manager guided the project during the first
three years of implementatioY/and was assisted by a total of six other
specialists during his term.- . It was unfortunate that the deputy project
director resigned shortly before the first project director left. When he
left this experience was lost (PPAM para. 31). Moreover, the eight months
it took for the Borrower to appoint a new director, and the appointment of
one who had no experience in the project or in other agricultural projects,
although he had held other high positions in the Ethiopian Government, had
a negative effect on staff morale and caused some to leave the project.
However, the new director performed quite adequately up to the end of
Phase I.
1/ On factors contributing to the success of the project, the project
manager has noted that the few key staff voluntarily accepted
responsibilities of more than one post and worked extremely hard,
and that the technical package provided by the project resulted in
significant yield increases and was thus easy to "sell".



- 8 -
35.       After the first Chief Finance Officer left, the borrower had
great difficulty filling this post, too. Until a replacement was found,
the accounting system deteriorated. The accounting system employed
throughout the implementation period never was adequate as a management
tool as the PCR points out (PCR para. 6.05).
36.       Another problem of staffing was the employment of people from
Wolamo Awraja in high level positions. It was essential to employ
Wolaitas at the farmer contact level because staff from outside the
Awraja usually did not speak the local language. These lower level
staff were unhappy about not being able to occupy the higher level positions.
But as noted in para. 33 above, local people of the area do not have sufficient
qualifications, which leads to the following discussion.
37.       The staffing problem encountyed in Wolamo Phase I could probably
have been anticipated and planned for.-     Too little attention was given at
project preparation and appraisal to staffing and staff development.
The appraisal report is very cryptic on staffing. A program should
have been incorporated in the project to meet staffing and staff development
needs systematically with a view to minimizing problems. Staffing problems
are not unique to this project; they are very prevalent in agricultural
development projects, mainly because it is assumed that key positions will
be filled by expatriates and other staffing is not critical. In reality,
qualified expatriates are often difficult to find. Furthermore, many
borrowers resent the employment of expatriates and oppose it.
38.       The fact that many of the staff posts were vacant during the
implementation of Phase I and that the project was a general success
suggests t t the management design of the project may have been
excessive.-    While it is desirable that each project is adequately and
efficiently managed, excessive personnel only add to the Borrower's
cost and bring no extra benefits. This cost is magnified when these posts are
filled by expatriates who receive much higher salaries than nationals.
39.        In Wolamo Phase I, a detailed staffing program should have
been drawn up; one that listed only such expatriate as were really needed.
The terms of reference of the expatriate staff should have included
specifications for training of their replacements and if these replacements
lacked necessary background, the project should have provided for suitable
additional training.
1/ The Region feels that this judgement is unduely harsh considering that
the resources at the disposal of the appraisal mission and the fact that
there was no previous experience in the project area.
2/ The Region dissents, too, on this point, concurring with the project
director that only the hard work of the key staff made up for the vacant
posts that existed.



- 9 -
40.        It was necessary under the project that extension personnel
be residents of the area or able to speak the local language in order
to communicate with farmers.   Many of the higher level personnel in the
project do not have this facility, which reduces their efficiency and
effectiveness 1/. The project should have provided a program for the
development and integration of more local residents in higher level positions.
B. Record Keeping and Accounting
41.       Although there is reason to believe that the project achieved
its major targets, it is very difficult to document this fact with hard
data (PCR para. 7.01). The lack of accurate documentation of project
achievement was expressed in a mid-term evaluation report prepared by a
team appointed by the Head of EPID (Extension and Project Implementation
Department)2/.
42.       Most of the lack of accurate data, and inadequate record keeping
and accounting derive from the staffing problems. An agricultural economist
position was set-up under the project hierarchy to collect, inter alia, basic
project data.   The position was filled early in the project and a base
line survey designed. The survey, however, never was finished because the
economist left the project after two years; when he was offered a more
attractive position in Addis Ababa. The first Chief Financial Officer also
left for a more attractive position in Addis Ababa. After his departure, the
accounting records deteriorated.
43.        Project management could have been improved if an adequate
system of accounting and record keeping had been specified at appraisal
instead of providing the standard paragraph: "The Borrower shall cause
all records and accounts relevant to the Project to be audited by an inde-
pendent auditor acceptable to the Association and, unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, shall transmit to the Association certified copies
of such accounts and a signed copy of such auditor's report, not later
than five months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year". (DCA Section
4.08).
44.        The PCR is correct in emphasizing the lack of accounting and
record keeping under the project. It may not be correct, however, in stating
(PCR para. 6.08) that an internal auditor hired in 1973 was not qualified
for the position. No mention is made in Bank files or any other reports
of this fact.   The Financial Officer who was hired at the same time as
the internal auditor in 1973 carried out his duties well. He resigned
in mid 1974 to take a position with EPID. Again, it was difficult to find
a replacement for him.
1/ The PCR probably is too critical of the. performance of expatriate staff
(PCR para. 4.06). The achievements of Phase I and failure of Phase II
are not consistent with the conclusions of the Planning, Evaluation and
Budget Control report cited.
2/ Paulos Abraham, Fesseha Ezaz, John Dalton and Aseffa Abreha,
Evaluation Report - WADU Phase I, Ministry of Agriculture, January 1973
p. 10.



- 10 -
C.        Cooperative Structure
45.        Farmers in the project area preferred to sell to private traders
rather than through cooperatives because the traders usually paid higher
prices and paid at the time products were delivered. The cooperatives only
paid 60% of a fixed price at delivery. Following the sale by a cooperative,
farmers received a supplemental payment based on the selling price to the
cooperative less a 12 per cent service charge, which was levied to cover the
operational costs of the cooperative. Farmers did not like to wait for their
supplementary payment nor the lower prices received.
46.       This situation was mainly due to the cooperatives having
to sell products to private traders after they received them from farmers.
This was necessary because the co-operatives did not have access either to
local markets outside of Soddu or to foreign markets.
47.        The cooperatives functioned well as distribution centers supply-
ing farmers with required inputs. Until a change occurred in government
policy following the revolution, cooperatives had to compete with well
organized private traders, who succeeded in organizing themselves and
dictating prices to the cooperatives. By introducing cooperatives without
the required vertical structure, i.e. without creating unions with more
direct access to urban or foreign markets, cooperatives were in a weak
position from the onset. In promoting cooperative marketing, the Bank
needs to look at the chain of marketing existing in a given cyyntry and
not to sponsor small units limited to work in isolated areas.-
D. Livestock Development
48.        The livestock component of the project had three subcomponents:
improved animal health, destocking in the highlands, and dairy stock improve-
ment.
49.        The first component was carried out with success and exceeded
appraisal expectation. No action was taken in the destocking program
despite the apparent success of the animal health component which, without
doubt, exacerbated the overstocking problem in the highlands. (PPAM para.
27, 28).
50.       The dairy improvement program which was based on the establish-
ment of an improved dairy herd at the project headquarters farm, had very
little impact, if any, on dairy development. The main reason was lack
of acceptance of new stock by local farmers. They believed that local and
imported cattle could not mate; they felt that the new cross-bred stock
did not yield meat as tasty as local stock, and they did not like their
appearance.
1/ The Eastern Africa Regional Office, commenting on this, stated, "Instead
of calling for yet another increase in the administrative overhead
through development of cooperative unions, the question should have been
asked whether the private trade could handle the marketing of smallholder
production more effectively then cooperatives."



- 11 -
51.       Although dairy development at the project farm was carried out
successfully, less than one half of the heifers that were expected to
be sold to farmers at appraisal were actually sold. At present it is
difficult to find a Friesian-Borana cross in the area despite the fact
that dairy development was to be a significant component in Wolamo - Phase
II.
52.       The livestock development program was not adequately prepared
for Phase I. Little attention was given to detailed formulation except
for the inoculation program.   This obvious lesson of Phase I - poor
conception and preparation - did not influence the Phase II livestock
component, which is essentially a continuation and expansion of the
imprecisely defined Phase I program. This aspect will be reviewed
again when the Phase II project comes up for audit.
E. Coffee Improvement Program
53.        The coffee component was either inadequately prepared or
unnecessary in the project. Only two of the expected four processing
plants were built after other processing centers were built by private
enterprise. Moreover the appraisal report specified that disk type
pulpers would be installed, but one center observed by the audit mission
employed a washer pulper. As a result of present over-capacity in the
area WADU's coffee processors are operating below capacity. A lesson learned
from this experience, no coffee processing was included in Wolamo Phase
II.






- 12 -
ETHIOPIA
WOLAMO FIRST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
(Credit 169-ET)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
May 2, 1977






- 13 -
Ethiopia
Wolamo First Agricultural Development
Project Completion Report
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1968 at the time of the appraisal of the lWolamo Agricultural
Development Unit (TADU), the agricultural sector in Ethiopia was characterize-:
by relatively low productivity. Although about 90% of the population derived
its livelihood directly or indirectly from agriculture, the sector contribute-:
only about 52% of GDP in 1971/72. Average total annual family output was
estimated at less than Eth$ 300, and 75% of this represented subsistence con-
sumption. The total value of agricultural output in 1970 was about Eth$ 1.9
million; cereals, coffee and other crops accounted for 71% and livestock and
livestock products for the remaining 29%.   Actual growth of agricultural outp_:
during the Third Five Year Development Plan (1968/69-1973/74) was estimated a:
about 2% a year, less than the rate of population increase.
1.02      The WADU Project area is located on the northwest edge of the Rift
Valley in the Wolamo Awraja (sub-province) of Sidamo Province. The Wolamo
Awraja covers an area of about 3,000 km2, and its population ("the Wo'lamos")
of about 0.5 million is a socially cohesive group with its own language
(Wolaminya).  The Wolamos are exclusively agrarian and are known for their
industry.  The WADU project area covers 2 types of areas: (a) highland area
(about 1,500 - 3,000 m above sea level) which is hilly with a rainfall
averaging about 400 mm per annum, but which is densely populated (and
characterized by serious erosion problems); and (b) lowlands (about
1,100 - 1,500 m above sea level) which are basically savanna, with a rain-
fall of about 800 mm per annum, and which is relatively unpopulated.
II. PROJECT HISTORY
2.01      In 1964 the iMinister of Agriculture asked the Bank whether it
would be prepared to assist the Gove nment in improving the arrangements
for agricultural credit in Ethiopial!. The Bank agreed to explore the
Possibility of establishing the nucleus of an Agricultural Bank which
would operate on a small scale in one selected region, with the expectation
and in the hope that once infrastructural and institutional improvements
1/  Early in 1962, IBRD participated in the establishment of the Development
Bank of Ethiopia (DBE) mainly for financing.industry, but also with pro-
vision for some financing of agriculture.   Through the years, efforts were
made -with DBE to develop agricultural lending.  The result was some fairly
successful financing of 2 plantations companies but failure in extension of
credit to small coffee producers in the area. A Bank mission in 1963,
recoommeaded that DBE divest itself of agricultural lending except for loans
to companies. This led directly to the Government's request.



-14 -
had been carried out, the operations could be expanded ,nto other regions.
At this stage the TBRD/FAO Cooperative Programa began Project preparation.
2.02      Successive missions were able to overcome Government's resistance
to Lhe idea of concentrating the initial effort in a limited area, and two
regions - Wolamo and Ch.lalo -- were selected for Project operations.   P.owever,
as the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) had already agreed to
promote the Chilalo Agricultuiral Development Project (CADU), (the first
significant agricultural development project designed to benefit small
farmers), preparation efforts were directed to the Wolamo region. The main
problems in this area were identified as the small farm-size (average fa-rm
holding 0.3 ha) and the already intersive use of cultivated land.
2.03      A second major change from Government's original request was
the change in the basic Project conce.c from an agrictiltural credit project
to an agricultuiral development project. This need became apparent once it
was clear that agrarian knowledge, agricultural infrastructure, and extension
services would have to be improved simultaneously with the provision o-
credit to farmers in the area.   It was also dec.ded that the credit pro--
vided was to be restricted to the Prcject area, and linked directly with the
supply of inputs to be provided by newly established cooperatives and that
the Project would continue the settlement program in Wolamo Awraja already
started by the Government. Under the direction of the Governor of Sidamo
Province, settlements had been established in 1958 in the B,le and Abella
areas. Thus the Project as finally conceived was essentially a package
program to settle farmers and provide technical assistance, marketing,
ic.frastructure and agricultural production for small farmers in the area.
Th.e Project preparation and planning was largely completed in August 1968,
and in November 1968 the appraisal mission visited Ethiopia. The Credit
Agreement was signed on Novemlher 26, 1969 and became effective on April 28,
1970. The Project as finally agreed Eor IDA financing was thus the result
of the combined efforts, extending over several years, of the Ethiopian
Governmient, IDA, and tiue FAO/1BFD Cooperative Program.
2.04      The three years required 'or Project identification and preparation
(from the mid-1965 to November 1968) was the result of the shift in the Project
concept, the difficulties involved in preparing a program of integrated
activities and the gaps in information oni the Wholamo region.  The CADU and
WADU Projects were the first exponents of a development strategy in which
the main emphasis was on comprehensive projects designed to develop
limited areas through the intensive application of a number of inputs.
It was hoped that the experience gained from these projects would allow
them to be successfully replicated elsewhere in Ethiopia. The experience
and technical expertise gained from them has been utilized under Govern-
ment's first Minimum Package Project and more recently by the second
Wolamo project, both supported by IDA. Nonetheless it is also obvious
that delays were also caused by the Washington-based staff's initial



- 15 -
reluctance to go ahead with the Project.    In June 1967 the Projects
Depaitment suggested that rather than involve BANK/IDA, UNDP should be
encouraged to undertake a program of detailed surveys, fielA trials, and
pilot operations designed to establish a surer basis for investment at
a later date. It seems that it needed the combined effort of the Bank's
Regional Office in Nairobi and the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Prcgram to over-
come this reluctance.
2.05      The Government's original request for assistanc,e in establishing
a central agricultural credit institution was not abandoned. However,
in 1972 an IDA credit of US$ 11.0 million was provided to help the Agri-
cultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) to expand its operations.
III. PROJECT TARGETS
3.01      The Project was the first six-year phase of the Wolamo Agri-
cultural Development Unit (WADU), and an integrated program for agricul-
tural improvement in the Wolamo Awraja of Sidamo Province.   It was the
second integrated package program after CADU in the series of comprehensive
projects launched during the Third Five Year Plan. The aim of the Project
was to increase production and improve the standards of living of the
Wolamo farmers.
3.02      Specifically, the Project targets were:
(a)  In the Highlands
In Sodo and Boloso Woredas, to raise the annual cash
income of 6,000 families from Eth$ 125 to Eth$ 325.
This would directly benefit some 30,000 people out of
an estimated 236,000 people living in the two Woredas.



- 16 -
(b) In the Lowlands
In Abela and Bale Woredas, the Project would provide
a family income of some Eth$ 435 over and above sub-
sistence for 1,750 settlers. The settlement plots of
700 farmers were to be reorganized and 1,050 farmers
were to be settled in new areas on 6 ha farms.
Together the target was to provide livelihood for
nearly 10,000 people.
3.03      The various programs were expected to increase incremental
Project output to Eth$ 2,283,000 at Project maturity in 1979 (Year 9),
with an estimated production increase of 45% in the highlands and 55%
in the settlements. In addition to bringing about increased production,
the Project was also expected to help bring about a shift from subsistence
to monetized agriculture.  Government's tax base would also increase
from the Project. Finally, the Project was expected to have a "demonstra-
tion effect" and provide data for the formulation of similar projects in
Ethiopia.
3.04      The targets were to be achieved through the provision of land
planning and settlement advice, road construction, land clearing and
soil conservation, water supplies, strengthened extension services
including a farmer training center and a livestock inocculation campaign,
production of maize (corn), wheat, teff, seed cotton and chillies. To
facilitate distribution of inputs and credit, and to provide a mechanism
for credit collection and the marketing of produce, 5 marketing centers
were included under the Project. Primary cooperative societies were
to be set up at each market, and it was envisaged that eventually a
cooperative union would be formed to take over responsibility for the
centralized services provided by WADU.
IV.  CRGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The Project was set up as a separate organizational entity under
a Project Director responsible for the execution of the Project. The
Project Director was to be assisted by two Committees which were to
be established by Government - an Inter-Ministerial Committee which
was to advise on overall policy and a Wolamo Development Committee,
which had the task of providing liaison between the Awraja authorities,
the local representatives of the ministries and farmers. The establish-
ment of both Committees was a condition of credit effectiveness (section
4.09, Credit Agreement). Once established, however, both commmittees
failed to play an active role as envisaged in the appraisal report. Bank
supervision missions complained repeatedly about the failure of the committ-es
even to meet regularly.



- 17 -
4.02      The Wolamo Project was divided into five main sections, each
supervised by a section chief (Finance, Development, Marketing, Credit
and Cooperatives, Training and Trials). The Project employed a total
of 462 people (compared to 379 envisaged during appraisal), of which
21 were senior staff, and 48 middle level staff. Subsequently three
internal organizational changes were made during the Project period.
These are discussed in Annexes 1,2 and 3.
4.03      During the Project period, the organizational structure was
changed 3 times. In May 1971, the Project Manager suggested several
changes.  One additional position was created between the Ministerial
Committee and the Project Director. Five Divisions previously, 4 were
created.  Related functions were merged together.   Staff functions were
placed under the Project Director. The second organizational change
was made in June 1972 by the Project Director. The administrative
activities were taken out cf the staff functions and 1 Division with
line function was created as shown in Annex 3. The Development Division
was separated into a Livestock Division and'a Development Division. The
third modification was made at the end of 1972. Three changes were made
as follows: the research unit came under the Project Director; land
reform was changed into Land Planning and was placed under the Develop-
ment Division; and internal audit and budget control was placed under
the supervision of the Project Director.
4.04      Staffing difficulties were experienced from the very beginning.
The key position of the Project Director was filled by three different
individuals over a period of four years. Two of the managers were ex-
patriates employed under an ADS contract. In August 1973, after 8 months
with no official Director in post, an acting Ethiopian Director was
finally appointed. The present Project Director of Wolamo II was
appointed recently, but neither he nor any of his high level staff
were employed in Wolamo I. Other key positions were the Chief Develop-
ment Officer (ADS), the Land Planning Officer (ADS), Livestock Extension
Officer (ADS), Chief Marketlng Officer (ODA), and the Highland Extension
Officer (ODA). Most of the expatriate staff contracts had expired late
in 1973 or early 1974. In its last months the Project suffered from
staff unrest; the )rimary difficulty was that the junior Wolamo staff
resented the fact that most senior positions were filled by Ethiopians
from other areas of the country. To resolve the problem an IBRD super-
vision mission suggested to WADU management that a staff career plan be
prepared and provided for improved training and promotion possibilities
to improve staff morale. Before this plan could be implemented, however,
the top management was replaced.
4.06      The contribution of the expatriate staff is difficult to ascertain
as it is impossible to determine the 'without' expatriate staff case. There-
fore, the mission was not able to form its own judgement on the subject.



- 18 -
Furthermore, all of the expatriates had left the area. The only comment on
the subject was contained in the Planning Evaluation and Budget Control Report
of the second WADU project which is highly critical of the expatriate experts,
employed under the first phase.   It stated among other things that "contrary
to the assumption that they were supposed to train their counterparts to ad-
minister the Project, their contribution had been nil, if not totally negative,
their educational background and experience showed that they had no particular
expertise to offer, but that their recruitment was imposed as a condition of
the loan. In addition, these inexperienced experts were very often placed as
advisers to qualified Ethiopians who felt that their services had not
been given the recognition that they deserved. At the same time these
'experts' were given  enormous salaries ranging between Eth$ 3,780 to
Eth$ 5,000 per month; such a salary could pay on average for 10 to 13
Ethiopian baccalaureates"i/. Even if these critical comments would have
been proven wrong it is important for IDA to realize that the Ethiopians
felt rather uneasy with the number of expatriates employed and rightly
or wrongly they felt they would not have obtained the loan without agreeing
to their employment. Furthermore, the short period of the expatriates's
stay may have contributed to their negative overall impression on the
Ethiopians. Bank staff in charge of project supervision, however, maintain
that the overall success of the Project would not have been possible without
efficient expatriate support.
4.07      The loan agreement did not detail the responsibilities for the
maintenance of the Project roads, and this issue had forever plagued
the project. Neither the Inter-Ministerial Committee, nor the Wolamo
Development Committee were able to resolve the problems related to
responsibility for the funding of maintenance of the roads. The
Governor who started the first settlement in the area and who saw
W'ADU as an outside intruder undermining his authority, claimed that
maintenance of WADU roads should be tne responsibility of WADU; the
Project management on the other hand, contended that this was the
responsibility of local jurisdiction. This problem remains unresolved
until today although the local Government's equipment was handed over
to W4ADU II management some time earlier.  WADU II is presently main-
taining its own roads and, if an urgent need should rise, it is also
prepared to maintain other roads in the area. The road maintenanice
issue, however, was only the tip of the iceberg. The fundamental
goals 'n enlisting the support and participation of the local govern-
ment in the project was not achieved during WADU I.
11 Quotation uses ADS staff cost which is higher than salaries
paid to staff. The salaries which were actually paid to the
individual experts ranged between Eth$ 1,533 and Eth$ 3,081.



- 19 -
4.08      A mid-term Evaluation Report!' suggested that there did not
seem to be any field coordination of Project activities. Numerous ex-
tension, trials, home economics and planning, livestock, and marketing
and field activities could have been more effectively managed and stream-
lined if they were systematically coordinated at the field level. There
was also very little 'horizontal' integration. The entire field operation
should have been viewed as one system and one organization established
to ensure coordination and efficiency.
4.09      Despite these problems, the Project management was able to
master a relatively complex Project, and was not only able to carry out
the defined Project activities, but also deal with marketing and credit
activities, land and tenure questions, inter-governmental issues and
other socio-economic matters. While the first Wolamo Project was
basically an organization "from-top-down" with its advantages and dis-
advantages, it is expected that the second Wolamo Project will increasingly
become a project which will be organized "from-bottom-up" as part of an
effort to improve farmers' cooperation and decision making. It remains
to be seen, however, whether the level of efficiency can be maintained
or even be improved.
V. ACCOMPLISHMENT AND EXTENT OF TARGET FULFILLMENT
General
5.01      An attempt has been made to evaluate the Project's performance
by comparing the targets actually achieved during the Project period with
those set out in appraisal. It is important to point out that the targets
of certain components dealt with in the following paragraphs are not
spelled out specifically in the appraisal report. The comparison, therefore,
is based on the scanty information in the appraisal report and the limited
data provided by the existing management of WADU II.
Land Use Planning, Settlement and Consolidation
5.02      The Project called for preparation of a comprehensive plan for
the new settlements, modifying existing holdings to conform to the overall
plan, and preparing detailed plans for soil conservation. Consistent with
this objective, photo-mosaics of the whole Awraja (317,000 ha) were prepared
and an aerial survey and mapping of 15,000 ha in the highlands and 53,000 ha
1/ Ministry of Agriculture, Evaluation Report WADU Phase I,
January 1973, page 54.



-20 -
in the settlements completed through U.K. technical assistance.
5.03      Reorganization and consolidation of existing holdings in
selectedareas in the highlands was given particular attention. As
most of the highland farmers worked at least 2 parcels of land, the
program was mainly to have been one of farmer education through extension
service on the benefits of consolidating fragmented parcels. The number
of farms to be affected was not specified, however. By the end of the
Project period nothing had been done to reorganize and consolidate
existing holdings in the highlands, nor had any study been initiated
on tenure conditions.
5.04      The Project called for the settlement of 1,050 new settlers,
500 and 550 respectively in Project years 3 (1972/73) and 4 (1973/74).
700 holdings in existing settlements were to lie reorganized. About
1,622 farmers were settled over the Project period - about 50% more than
appraisal estimates. No action has been taken with regard to reorgariza-
tion of existing settlements.
Roads
5.05      New, unsurfaced minor roads ( 4 m wide) and farm tracks (3 m)
were included in the Project. In the highlands, approximately 190 km
were built, bringing every farmer in the Project area within 3 km of a road
or track. A further 185 km were to be built in the settlements, giving each
farm direct access to a track. By July 1974, 214 km road in the highlands
and 265 km in the settlements were constructed and were being maintained.
It has not been possible, however, to obtain an accurate picture of either
the type of roads built, or the costs incurred. This is due to the fact
that responsibility for road building has changed several times; it was
given first to the Engineer in the Development Division; then to the
Land Planning Section, and finally to the Works and Services Division;
an effective data collection mechanism was not instituted which resulted
in very poor record keeping and the absence of data on road length and
standards prior to the launching of the WADU road program. There is now
a difference of opinion, both within WADU and between WADU and the local
administration, ab to what exactly WADU has done in the field of road
building.
Clearing and Soil Conservation
5.06      Clearing and soil conservation on a total of 6,300 ha was planned
for the settlement areas. It was assumed that 3,000 ha would be cleared by
Project year 2 (1971/72) in order to accommodate 500 new settlers in year 3
(6 ha/settler). An additional 3,300 ha were to be made ready by year 3 to
accommodate a further 550 new settlets by year 4 (1973/74). Of the total
hectarage to be allocated to each farmer, 2 ha were to be chaincleared
twice in order to facilitate the planting of food crops by the settlers



- 21 -
during their first season and the remaining hectares were to be chain-
cleared only once, and the clearing was to be completed in the second and
third season by the settler himself.-I . In addition to clearing soil conserva-
tion work, mainly cut-off and contour drains, was to be done. The original
appraisal report estimate of 6,300 ha of land clearing by machine in the new
settlement was found to be too high, and therefore, only 2,280 ha of land
was cleared and this by hand. The targets for soil conservation measures in
highland and in settlements were not specifically spelled out at appraisal.
However, 490 ha in highlands and 3,000 ha in the settlements were brought
under soil conservation. In settlement areas, 350 km of terraces were
constructed, 1,750 plots were contour ploughed,and about 1,203 ha were
bunded. In view of the fact that benefits of soil conservation are not
readily seen or realizeable in short term, convincing farmers to adopt
such measures has been a significant positive step on the part of WADU.
Water Supply
5.07      The water supply in the highlands was to be improved through
conservation works including the construction of weirs and diversions.
Most of the work was to be done by self-help with-assistance from Project
staff.  Provision of water in the settlements and for the Project head-
quarters was also to be made. However, little was done to carry out the
Project in the water supply program. In the highlands, springs were
identified and measured in the Weybo catchment, 20 spring head protected
and a weir and furrow constructed at Hembicho. In the settlements, little
has been done except for some maintenance work on the existing pipeline
to Abela.  During 1974, 100 m pipeline was installed in Bele and Bubo and
an extension made in Abela. A water supply for the Project farm at Soddo,
for the Project Headquarters and for the existing residential areas was
also completed.
Extension Service
5.08      Extension services were to be provided in 3 highland areas.
Each area was to comprise 2 groups of 1,000 farms directed by a senior
agent who in turn would be assisted by 4 field agents and 24 demonstrators.
In Project years 2, 3 and 4, 2,000, 4,000 and 6,000 farmers respectively
were to be reached. An extension service was also to be provided in
2 settlements - Abela and Bele. A senior agent assisted by 3 field
agents and 10 demonstrators were supposed to be responsible for 900
farmers. One veterinary agent assisted by a demonstrator was to be
responsible for extension work on animal husbandry in each group in
both the highlands and the settlements.
1/ It was decided early in the program that all clearing work was to be
done by hired labor.



- 22 -
5.09      WADU has made remarkable progress in its extension program.
The extension approach was supported by elected farmer leaders, each
of whom was responsible for 9 other farmers. Technically, this approach
has been effective and offers possibilities of replication in similar
projects elsewhere.
WADU - Planned and Actual Farmer Coverage
by the Extension Service
Highlands              1970-71     1971-72     1972-73     1973-74
No. of farmers
planned to be
teached                 -         2,000       4,000       6,000
No. of farmers
actually reached        -         4,160       6,294       7,565
Settlements
No. of farmers
planned to be
reached                              500        550       1,050
No. of farmers
actually reached        639           54        543       1,622
5.10      As a result of early experience, the extension strategy was
changed. Instead of 3 extension areas covering 6,000 farmers as fore-
seen at appraisal, 11 extension areas were established; consequently
the staff/farmer ratio was also altered. The Table below shows planned
and actual staff/farmer ratios.



- 23 -
Planned and Actual Staff/Farmer Ratio
Highlands                      1970-71     1971-72      1972-73     1973-74
Senior Field Asst.
to Agent                       1:2         1:2          1:2         1:2
Agent to Sr. Demonstrator         -           -           1:3         1:3
Agent to Demonstrator            1:2         1:12         1:13        1:13
Sr. Demonstrator to
Agent                           -           -           1:5         1:8
Demonstrator to
Farmer Actual                   -          1:85         1:18        1:137
Appraisal Estimate                -          1:80         1:80        1:80
Settlement
Senior Field Asst.
to Agent                       1:0         1:3          2:1         2:1
Agent to Sr. Demonstrator         -           -           1:6         1:6
Agent to Demonstrator            1:21        1:9          1:25        1:21
Sr. Demonstrator to
Agent                           -           -           1:4         1:3
Demonstrator to
Farmer- Actual                 1:26         1:26        1:49        1:79
Appraisal Estimate               1:30        1:30         1:30        1:30
5.11      There is no quantitative data on training in the initial years
of the Project. However, ir '1972 a training center was built; 188 men
and 9 women demonstrators received a one month basic course in general
agriculture and 386 farmers completed a course on cooperative development.



- 24 -
Demonstrations were organized for staff and farmers on teff and wheat,
cotton spraying, and soil conservation. The home economics activity
was not envisaged at appraisal, but necessity compelled the Project to
include a program in its plan. By 1973-74, 445 participants had attended
24 classes organized for home economics.
Coffee Improvement and Processing
5.12      The coffee production program was to be based on quality improve-
ment through selective picking of ripe beans, the introduction of a pruning
and washing process. It was expected that through pruning and selective
picking coffee yields would increase by as much as 30%. In some parts of
the highlands WADU did introduce better cultural practices. However, since
the benefits of these improved cultural methods are not readily apparent to
farmers, the adoption was slow. No reliable quantitative data are available
on actual yield increases and quality improvements. It is reported however
that with the initiation of the two coffee processing centers, berry beans
have increased by some 16%. Although WADU's coffee purchase program has
undoubtedly resulted in higher prices, there is not enough evidence to
suggest that the entire price increase (over 66%) is solely due to WADU.
Two of the center's,Admanche and Hombeche, have coffee processing plants.
Five new similar coffee processing plants were established by the private
sector and the 2 already existing private factories were reactivated. There-
fore, the Project managers found. it unnecessary to build the two additional
plants as provided in the Project proposal-
Livestock
5.13      In 11ne with the effort to introduce improved animal health
services, WADIJ staff (1 animal assistant and 8 vaccinators) have partici-
pated in the JP-15 campaign in the Awraja. During the campaign 503,000
cattle compared to 120,000 were vaccinated against rinderpest, contagious
pleuropneumonia and black leg. The program is considered to have been
completed satisfactorily. The benefits of this program have not been
quantified, but it is reasonable to assume that qualitative benefits
accrued from this component.
5.14      With regard to the second aspect of the livestock program -
a destocking program for the highland areas to increase offtake rate
to 5,300 head of cattle by year 6, no action was taken. In absence of
any program for destocking and as a result of the animal health program
aimed at reducing calf mortality, the problem of over grazing has become
serious.



- 25 -
5.15      The dairy program called for sale to selected farmers of 540
half-bred calf heifers. For this purpose, WADU established a high grade
Friesian dairy with 34 heifers and 3 bulls imported from Kenya. By July
1974, only 70 Borana heifers in calf to a Friesian bull, not 540 as originally
planned, were sold to farmers. The program has also changed from distribu-
tion of Friesian crossed with Borana to Borana heifers in calf. This
strategy was adopted to reduce cost and time and to minimize problems of
adaptability. The economies at the farm level of the Borana heifer = calf
purchase has not been investigated.
5.16      Considerable changes were made by the Project management in
the livestock program. It is not known whether the Bank was consulted
before making these changes. The mission was informed that in July 1972,
the Project Director on his own initiative and in consultation with the
livestock experts and extension specialist of the Project, modified
the entire livestock program of the appraisal. The major changes were:
(i) intensification of the animal health program to
integrate it with national JP-15 program; and
(ii) omission of tha cattle improvement program because
of the difficultry in marketing crossbred animals which
differ in their appearance from traditional cattle.
WADU's poor performance of the livestock division has been credited to
overomptimistic appraisal estimates and locally unacceptable breeds, to
hish cost to farmers and to the fact that improved cattle does not receive
a higher price than that paid for unimproved indigeneous stock. The live-
stock program, has, therefore, been with the exception of the vaccination
program slow in its implementation.
Marketing, Cooperatives and Credit (MCC)
5.17      The main objectives of the Project in the creation of an organized
marketing system have been:
(a)  to give the producer as secure and reasonable a return as
possible, particularly for the cash crops to be promoted;
(b) to create a stabilizing influence on price fluctuations;
(c) to eliminate the exploitation of producers by middlemen;
(d) to encourage the natural growth of cooperatives; and
(e)  to provide exchanges between highland and lowland parts of
the Project area as more specialized crop production develops.



- 26 -
The shortcomings of the existing marketing system in the area has led
to the development and establishment of 11 marketing centers in the high-
lands and two in the lowland settlement areas. Six primary cooperative
societies were set up (as compared to 5 envisaged at appraisal) together
with 9 pre-cooperatives; on May 27, 1974 the 13 marketing centers were
organized in the WADU Group Marketing Organization (WGMO). This regional
marketing development fitted well into the national cooperative development
program, which started in 1966 with the establishment of the Cooperative
Development Department in the Ministry of National Community Development
and Social Affairs (MNCD). The Department is responsible for the promotion,
registration, inspection, supervision and audit of cooperatives and assists
them in the marketing of agricultural produce. WADU however did not get
effective help from MNCD.
5.18      The WGMO which is directed by a comrm,ittee of 2 elected members
from each of the 13 marketing centers, the Project Director (Chairman)
and 3 members representing the Ministry of Agriculture (WADU staff) decided
on the kind and quality of the produce to be handled and the level of the
first payment to be made.   Produce could be sold to cooperatives by
members as well as by non-meebers, although the latter however could not
participate in the credit operation of the cooperatives.    WGM0 was set up
to be independent from WADU.   However during the Project, WADU subsidized
the marketing organization by providing manpower, transport, storage
facilities and other inputs,   The registration fee for all cooperatives and
pre-cooperative members was Eth$ 1. The membership in all cooperatives
developed as follows:
Years                   Number of Members
Cumulative
1971/72                        6,261
1972/73                        8,235
1973/74                        9,106
5.19      In 1971/72 (the first year of the cooperatives' existence)
virtually all crops produced and sold by the marketing group members had
been sold to the cooperatives. About 18,660 qt of mainly wheat, teff,
ginger (wet), coffee and maize (corn) were sold. The establishment of
cooperatives prompted the commercial traders to increase their prices.
However in the next years there was a substantial reduction of cooperatives'
buying activities; this was due to the cooperatives' pricing policies.
WGMO paid the farmers at the beginning only 60% of the projected sales
price of the produce handled as a first payment. The second payment, which
the farmer received subject to WGMO marketing operations, allowed for marketing
costs and was paid to the farmers only after the produce had been sold. The
farmers preferred "cash now" to "cash later".   Rumors of irregularities
within the cooperatives also undermined the corfidence of the farmers. The
failure to provide second payment for some crops also added to the mistrust.
Consequently, the quantity of the produce purchased by cooperatives dropped



- 2 7 -
from 18,660 qt in 1971/72 to 7,262 qt in 1972/73 and 6,065 qt in 1973/74.
5.20      Agricultural credit has also been provided to farmers.    Members
of the cooperatives could apply for short term loans for all types of farm
inputs. The applied interest rate was 12% and repayment had to be made
within 9 months after issue. Although some medium term loans had been
provided at 8% (especially for sprayers) there was a greater need for
longer term loans during the Project which was not satisfied. To compete
successfully with commercial traders, the Marketing, Credit and Cooperatives
(MCCD) Division also provided cash advances for the Meskel celebrations
(an Ethiopian festival). The cash loans granted on the settlements for
hiring labor which were provided for during the initial year, were sub-
sequently abolished. The following Table shows the summary of credit
activities according to credit items provided;
Credit Activities of WADU
1970/71            1971/72          1972/73           1973/74
Value              Value            Value             Va-'ue
Quantity  Eth$     Quantity  Eth$   Quantity  Eth$    Quantity  Et:-S
Fertilizer    1,419   59,727     4,751 171,407   10,716 465,778    15,895 634,Sc76
Seeds           339  16,061      1,190  55,572     -986   42,216      961  45,106
Insecticides       2      81       286  11,209       89   13,396    1,843  48,C52
Cash Advance    -      -           -    54,350      -     98,000      -    75,:69
Summary
Materials     -       -          -     6,172       -       -        -    19,C27
1,760  75,870      6,228 144,443   11,791 619,390    18,699 822,230
5.21      Credits for the purchase of inputs provided to farmers rose drastically
from Eth$ 75,870 in the first Project year to Eth$ 822,230 in the last Project
year.  The total credit provided over the 4 years amounted to about Eth$ 1.5
million. Credit volume expanded considerably from Eth$ 619,339 in 1972/73 to
Eth$ 822,230 in 1973/741/. However, contrary to the information provided in
tne supervision report, WADU farmers did not pay the required deposit of
25%, iike others, against input credits. Credit activities among cooperative
members developed as follows:
Coop. Total  No. of     Av. Credit    Partici-   Repayment
Membership  Borrowers    Provided     pants %    Rate %
(Eth$/Farmer)
1970/71         1,730(Est.) 1,470          52         85(Est.)    100
1971/72         6,261        4,791        166         76           99
1972/73         8,235        7,135         87         87           90
1973/74         9,106        4,809        171         45           84



- 28 -
The number of cooperative farmers which participated in the credit activities
was highest in 1972/73, but declined in 1973/74 by about 33% despite an
increase in cooperative membership from 8,235 to 9,106 farmers.   The repay-
ment record of farmers was good, although constantly declining over the
Project period, leaving an outstanding balance including interest of
about Eth$ 500,000. A likely reason for the worsening repayment rate can be
found in WADU's failure to take any legal action on defaulters. Furthermore,
the recording system was so poor that no proper follow-up could be made by
WADU.  This is also the reason why the figures provided in some of IBRD's
supervision reports do not tally with those latest figures listed above.
5.22      The farmer's total loan repayment should have been credited to a
revolving fund. IEG had agreed that this fund was to be used for transactions
relating to farm credits, distinguishing between recurrent and capital
transactions. However, despite repeated requests from supervrision mission
staff this revolving fund was clearly not properly maintained. Apart from
the interest on the loan of 12%, the membership fee of Eth$ 1 per member,
and the subscription fee per shareholder of Eth$ 10, the MCC division
charged a marketing fee of 25 cents/qt on any produce sold to the co-
operatives and some other transactions. At the end of Project phase I
the revolving fund showed a total net profit of Eth$ 125,000. Settlers
had also to pay an annual development cess i.e. Eth$ 58 per farmer allowing
for a three year's moratorium to repay Government for the direct cost of
developing their holdings. Annex 5 shows the estimated development cess
and the marketing fees.
5.23      In retrospect, it can be stated that the establishment of
marketing centers, the cooperatives and their credit operations are major
achievements of the Project. Giving farmers the advantages of the credit
operation, 18,205 farmers obtained credit within 4 years as compared to an
expected 7,015 farmers in the appraisal over a 6 year's period. The cut-
lined targets seem to have been met, although it is not possible to be
precise on the costing of the operation nor can the degree of the achieve-
ment be defined due to a lack of information. On the marketing side, the
advantage was less clear as at the end of the Project period many farmers
still-preferredto sell to private dealers offering cash on the spot,
frequently for hig.Aer prices. The cooperatives were less flexible and,
because of a lack of working capital and high overhead costs, not fully
competitive. The Bank's supervision mission had suggested that buying
centers operate only on certain published marketing days, rather than full-
time. Their full-time operation however was not changed during the Project
period.
VI.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING ANDT DISBURSEMENT, AND ACCOINTS AND AUDIT
6.01      At appraisal, it was envisaged that the Project would take 6
years to complete. As the Project progressed it became apparent that



- 29 9
a number of the targets outlined could be achieved earlier. The Project
was finally completed after 4 years in July 1974.   Total Project cost
(including physical contingencies) at appraisal was estimated at Eth$ 12.6
million, while actual expenditures totalled Eth$ 10.6 million. Details
are given as follows:
Estimated and Actual Propject Costs
(Eth$ '000)
Category I                      Appraisal                 Actual
Estimates              Expenditures
Vehicles, tractors,
machinery, farm inputs           1,905                   1,049
Foreign Staff                      1,337                     854
Category II
Local Staff                        3,363                   3,687
Building and Civil Works           1,705                   2,124
Operation Maintenance              3,275                   2,764
Category III
Unallocated                        1,055                     -
12,640                   10,478
6.02      Savings of about Eth$ 2 million as compared to the appraisal
estimate can be attributed to control exercised over overall expenditures,
some shortfall in the achievement of certain targets (livestock, water
supply and road maintenance); savings on expatriate staff costs reflect
staffing diffi ulties, and the effect of devaluations of the US dollar in
1971 and 1973/, calculated at Eth$ 979,000.    Building costs tended to
exceed estimates, although the worst of the world-wide cost escalation
was avoided by early completion of major investments. Savings seem to
have been made in vehicle orders without impairing efficiency through
good management control on their use and efficient maintenance.
6.03      IDA agreed to finance US$ 3.5 million or 69% of total Project
cost. This percentage was approximately met, if one takes into considera-
tion that the Project cost savings were almost offset by the effects of
the devaluation of the US dollar i.e. resulting in Project cost of Eth$ 11.5
1/ 1970 Eth$ - US$ 0.40302; 1971 (August) Eth$ - US$ 0.43806;
1973 Eth$ - US$ 0.48674.



-30 -
million. The remainder of Project costs were financed by U.K. technical
assistance, the World Food Program, and Government. The final credit allo-
cations by category have been close to the pattern originally estimated.
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
(uS$ '000)
Category                         Appraisal                  Actual--
Estimate                Allocation
Vehicles, tractors,
machinery, farm inputs             630                      419
Foreign Staff                        535                      390
Category II
Local Staff                          800                    1,163
Building and Civil Works             450                      650
Operation Maintenance                750                      876
Category III
Unallocated                          335                    _
3,500                    3,500
6.04      Disbursement estimates differ considerably from the appraisal
due to the reduction of Project completion time.
1/ On Government's request on Sept. 1973, IDA agreed to reallocate the cre-it
proceeds. Fertilizer purchases initially financed by IDA were financed -:rough
the Agriculture and Industry Development Bank since 1972. Therefore sinre then
no further disbursement for fertilizer was claimed from IDA.



- 31 -
The Project was fully disbursed in the second quarter of FY 1975, about
18 months before the original closing date. Disbursements at the beginning
of the Project were somewhat slower than expected. However, the disbursement
rate increased rapidly in 1972 and then remained ahead of schedule. The
original delays were due to certain bureaucratic and procedural requirements.
The design of buildings had to be approved by the Ministry of Public Works
before the Ministry of Finance could release the funds. Because of ignorance
of this procedural requirement, WADU failed to get funds earmarked for build-_gs
released in 1970171, and this consequently affected the building target in t.-t
year. One of the main reasons for the prompt submission of claims for reim-
bursenment was the simple accounting system, with headings related to the pro--ct
cost estimates, and the list of goods.   This system was devised and understoc     
by the accountant prior to loan effectiveness. WADU experienced some minor --o-
cedural problems in the procurement of material and services; however, overalL
procurement, local and international, went sarisfactorily as reported in varf-^us
suDervision reports. The Credit was fully disbursed by December 31, 1974.
6.05      All in all, the Project was characterized by an inadequate pre-
sentation and breakdown of cost data. First, only total costs were shown
in tha appraisal report and no annual breakdown was made. Second, Project
Management adopted the cost allocation Qf the Credit Agreement; thic
classification (which serves to facilitate the allocation of proceeds of
credit) is ill suited as a management tool. Third, Project Management could
not reconcile the breakdown of cost as presented in the appraisal report
and that of the Credit Agreement!/. No estimates of unit costs are given
in the appraisal report and no unit costs have been collected by the Project
Management.   Therefore, a meaningful comparison of actual Project functions
as compared to appraisal estimates is not feasible. Some comparison can,
however, be made of Project staff costs. The change in costs for 3 categories
of Project Staff can be seen below:
Develnpment of Average Sal -ies According to Categories
(Et$)
Professional                                 1970          1974
Key positions - Expatriate staff          5,000         5,000
- Ethiopian staff             550          695
Administrative
SuperintEndents                             350           416
Accounts staff                              350           416
Clerks, Typists                             200          n/a
Field Staff
Agricultural Agents                         350           416
Supervisors                                 550           695
IWorkshop Forem                             350           416
Demonstrators                                70           n/a
Guards                                       45          n/a
1/ According to the Evaluation Report, MinisLry of Agriculture, 1973, the
Project Director had attempted to get clarification from IBRD on the
subject but did not succeed.



32 -
The average annual increase of about 6% partially explains why the actual
expenditure on local staff has been higher than the appraisal estimates
despite the fact that the Project was implemented almost 2 years ahead
of schedule. Another reason is said to be that Project accounting has
included all staff per diem and air fares together with the cost of local
staff, and thus overstated this category; some of the allowances should be
included in the foreign staff category.
6.06      Various supervison reports have highlighted the problems of
WADU's accounts. Although routine bookkeeping and disbursement claims
were kept up-to-date, internal control was lax and staff took advantage
of opportunities for falsifications and misappropriations. Furthermore,
the revolving fund account was not properly maintained. The lack of
proper classification of Project accounts was a major reason why it is
difficult to learn from the WADU experience. It also deprived Project
management of an effective management tool.
6.07      Detailed procedural improvements were suggested by Whinney
Murray, the external auditors who audited WADU's accounts bettween July 1971
and 1972. However, the failure of the operational divisions to feed the
nece sary information to the accounts section was a major reason why the
accounting problem remairned unresolved during the implementation period.
Other major reasons were the high turnover of staff and the lack of
competence within the accounting section.
6.08      In 1973 the Financial Officer was replaced and an Internal
Aiditor was hired. His most urgent tasks have been:
(a)  to introduce a system of internal control to minimize
opportunities for fraud, particularly as regards purchasing
and cash advances;
(b) to prepare a statement showing the transactions of the
revolving fund differentiation between the recurrent costs
and revenues relating to farmerst seasonal credit;
(c) to introduce a management accounting system showing monthly
expenditure and revenue in relation to the agreed budget
with unit cost figures where appropriate.
However, the new Internal Auditor was not qualified-for the position, and
although EPID advised the Bank that he would shortly be replaced, he was
still in post at the beginning of WADUts second phase.
6.09      In retrospect it can be concluded that even at a rather early
stage the simple accounting system was not properly maintained. Farmers'
credit accounts, accounts of the revolving fund and the internal control
system were unsatisfactory and the accounting'system did not provide



- 33 -
management with prompt and informative accounts relating to expenditures
and budgets. However, although these shortcomings have been pointed out
again and again by supervision missions basically the situation remained
unchanged over the Project period.   It appears that given the relative
importance of this matter in relation to the achievements of Project
targets, IDA could have made stronger efforts to resolve this issue;
VII. IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
7.01      As attempt is made to deterni4ne the Project's accomplishments,
particularly its impact on the national economy, the Government budget and
foreign exchange. It has to be emphas[zed, however, that the results of
this exercise should be interpreted cautiously because the appraisal report
does not document adequately the ex ante situation nor does it give a yearly
breakdown of expected benefits. Moreover, the lack of managerial continuity
and of proper data recording necessitated a reliance on information from
records, files and publications, which yielded greatly inconsistent data.
Due to the poor quality of data available, it is evident that the results
achieved'will be difficult to verify ex post with any certainty. The only
plausible explanation for the paucity of data is that, in the absence of
adequate qualified staff, Project execution received much higher priority
than the maintenance of records.
Production and Farm Budgets
7.02      The objectives of the Project were to be achieved through a
combination of higher yields and improved quality of crops and better prices
to producers. Improvement in crop production was to be based on the introduc-
tion of improved cultivation practices using chemical fertilizers, insecticics
and improved seed. The Table below shows the yield targets planned for
Year 9 and average yields attained during the Project period.
WADU I - Crop Yields: Without Proie_t at Maturity (Year 9)
Actual and Average of the Project Period
Arpraisal                         Actuals
Without  Maturity                                  Average During
Project   Year 9     1971/72a/ 1972/73.ai 1973/74b/ Project Period./
 - - - - - - - -  _-_      qt/ha __    __        __        __
Highlands
Maize       8.0       13.0       21         28        25            25
Wheat       9.0      12.0        20         10        15            15
Teff        5.5       8.5        10          5.5       6             7.1
Settlements
Maize      12.0      18.0        24         30        29            28
Cotton      1.4       5.6        10          9         7.6          8.9
Chillies    1.0       5.0         9          6         4            6.7
a/ Source: Supervision mission report of November 1974.
b/ Source: Project Management, WADU II.
c/ Average is based on 3 years' data.



- 34 -
7.03      No estimates of yearly average yield increases were made during
appraisal. Only the targets for Year 9 (at full development) were set out.
However, the data in the Table above indicates that as early as Year 4,
the targets of Year 9 were substantially exceeded for all crops (except
teff). The actual increases were: 92% in the highlands and 56% in the
settlements for maize; 59Z for cotton; 34% for chillies and 25% for wheat.
While many of the previous ex-post evaluations have indicated that Bank
appraisals have been over-optimistic on yield increases, in the present
case, the appraisal esttmates were over-conservative. Three possible ex-
planations could be offered for this situation:
(i)  the appraisal mission did not have sufficient research and
field trial data for the Project area to accurately gauge
its targets for yield increases due to improved crop
husbandry; or
(iI)  the WADU I management achieved remarkable results throCgh
its extension program, as Wolamo farmers responded well
to the package of recommended cultivation practices. It
appears that the lesson was learned in WADU II and the
estimated yield increa.es in Phase II seem to be more
realistic.
(iii) It is conceivable that pre-Prolect yields were much higher
than was assumed during appraisal, but lack of data may have
led the appraisal mission to employ very low baseline figures.
7.04      The Table below indicates the volume of actual additional productioa
in Year 2, 3 and 4 of the Project.
Volume of Actual Incremental Annual Production During
Year 2, 3 and 4 of the Project
Compared to Year 9
Product                        Actual                   Appraisal
1971/72     1972/73     1973/74     Estimate Yr. 9
~~~~~~m Tmton - ~- - - - - - - - 
Cotton              192         190         238            914
Chillies             34         130           72            198
Teff                408          -          265              72
Wheat                76          19          21             14
Maize             1,387       6,000      12,353           5,745
Since the appraisal report did not specify the yearly production targets,
a comparison of actual with forecasted production is not possible. The



- 35 -
number of participating farmers and yield per unit of land have been
significantly higher than appraisal estimates. But given the absence
of information concerning the size of participating farmers' holdings
and area under cash crops, it is not possible to calculate the actual
production.
Farm Budgets
7.05      During appraisal, farm budgets for the highlands were not
prepared for any of the many possible combinations of holding size,
cropping patterns, and improvements adopted. However the net incremental
annual return to the highland Project area was estimated at about
Eth$ 850,000, equivalent to about Eth$ 130 per-farm.   After deducting
the marketing fee the average farmer was expected to obtain an income
of about Eth$ 120.   In general, the net increase in disposable
cash income was estimated to be about 20% for all farmers in the
highland development areas. From the yield levels and price increases
it appears that farmers benefitted more than was expected by the
appraisal mission. In the settlement area net benefits per farmer
by year 4, after paying loan installments and the development costs,
were expected to rise to an average of US$ 408 per annum. The Table
below compares the estimated and the actual settlement budgets.



- 36 -
Settlement Farm Budget at Maturity
Appraisal
Estimatel-      Actual/
-  - - - - Eth-$- - --
Revenues
Crop Production
Maize                              388.8             910
Chillies                            72.0            124
Cotton                             313.5            534
Teff                                   -              12
774.3           1580
Subsistence consumption                  120.0            233
654.3           1347
Total Crop Sales                            800.6           1347
Outlays
Farm Inputs
Seed                                17.9              19
Insecticides                        49.0              17
Livestock expenses                   18.2             --
Hired labor                          72.0             90
Other                                10.0             20
Fertilizer                  ._---_             -      16
167.1            162
Other Charges
Market dues                         30.0             --
Development cess                   58.0              58
Loan repayments                    90.0              63
Interest on seasonal loan           8.0               8
Income tzx                         ----               6
186.0            135
Depreciation on sprayer                  14.0             28
200.0            163
Total Outlays                               367.1            325
Net Farm Income                             433.5           1022
(US$173.4)       (US$408)
1/ At Year 9
2/ Source: WADU II management



- 37 -
National Economy
7.06      The impact of the Project on the national economy has been
estimated by a cost-benefit analysis. A conceptual difficulty arises
from the fact that the first Wolamo project was followed by the II
Phase project, thus changing the total cost/benefit picture of the
I Phase. As the objective of this analysis is to quantify the
impact of I Phase only, a hypothetical cost and benefit stream after
completion of Phase I has been assumed. The selected approach assumes
that the benefit stream stemming from the Project peaked in the last
Project year (Year 4). The cost stream then was established by estimating
the minimum input required to maintain the output of the last Project year
over a 20 year period; actual costs and benefits during the Project
implementation period have been used. Farmer's incremental labor has been
shadow priced at zero because of lack of alternative employment opportunities.
Farmgate prices have been applied. Benefit and cost projections are based
on 1974 prices.
7.07      This analysis indicates an internal economic rate of return at
10%; in this calculation a shadow rate of foreign exchange of 30% above the
official rate was used.  This rate of return compares with an estimated
13% in the appraisal report. Without shadow pricing of foreign exchange
the economic rate of return would have been 6%. As in the appraisal report,
no attempts have been made to quantify the indirect benefits of the Project:
for example, no effort was made to calculate the benefit to non-participatin-
farmers arising from higher wheat crop prices due to the establishment of
a marketing organization; also there seems to be general agreement among
WADU staff that the demonstration effect which the Project had within the
region was noticeable and made it much easier to mobilize farmers for a
Phase II effort.
Social Structure
7.08      Very little is known about the effect of the Project on the
social structure of the region (although questions about the possible shari-g
of the incremental income resulting from the implementation of the Project
between tenants and landlords was raised as an issue during the Board
Meeting in October 1969 when the Wolamo Project was being considered). The
land tenure system, in particular was considered to present a severe constr--nt
to any far-reaching attempts to modernize the agricultural sector. However,
the failure to more thoroughly examine this question at appraisal is under-
standable since the land tenure situation at the time was politically
sensitive in Ethiopia and as the land tenure and landlord-tenant relation-
ships were of a very complex nature.



- 38 -
7.09      Historically, the rights of ownership and tenancy could be traced
to feudal origins, and they underwent little change in the intervening period.
Tenancy agreements which prevailed during the Project fell into 3 main
categories:
(1) cash rents;
(2) share-cropping at 1:1 ratio between the landlord and the
tenant, where the latter provided all the inputs, but 2:1
ratio where the landlord provided all the inputs; and
(3) a combination of cash rents with share-cropping and/or
contribution of labor to landlord.
7.10      The social impact which the Project had clearly differed
in the lowlands (settlement areas) and the highlands. While physical
progress in establishing the settlements was satisfactory - 1,622 fami'ies
were settl2d on 5 ha plots as compared to 1,750 families envisaged during
appraisal-  - settlers rights of tenure were only slowly legalized.   Farmers
showed little interest in signing leases because of the original promise
that they would receive freehold titles and persistent rumors about imminent
land reform. Government was also slow to bestow titles on farm.ers as it
was feared that this would result in "irresponsible" behavior on the part of
farmers (e.g. fragmentation and excessive soil-exploitation of holdings).
Most Project farmers did not receive title to their land. This issue is
now moot as all rural lands have become the collective property of the
Ethiopian people (Proclamation No. 31 of 1975).
7.11      Although mapping of the highlands was completed at an early
stage, little was done during the Project period to reorganize or con-
solidate holdings. About 85% of the highlands was utilized in some way
although only an estimated 25% was under annual crop. It was estimated
by the Bank that about 75% of the total area covered by the Project in
the highlands was owned by the farmers themselves; therefore the mission
assumed that the increase in income from these plots would necessarily
accrue to the farmers, and no sharing of income with landlords would be
involved. For the remaining 25% of land cultivated by tenants, it was
estimated that about 50% of the tenants paid cash rent and an equal per-
centage were share croppers. Although no records are available to sustain
these assumptions, it is likely that the landlords were able to obtain part
of the incremental income under crop sharing arrangements as well as under
1/ These figures were obtained by the completion mission's. The figures
provided to the supervision mission were: 1737 farmers have been
settled by November 1974. The supervision mission was also informed that
1750 farmers could have been settled but remaining plots would be used
for trial and demonstration purposes.



- 39 -
cash rent agreement. It was estimated that landlords may have shared
in only about 10% of the incremental income stemming from the Project in
the highlands. Taking in consideration that the landlord-tenant issue
does not arise in the lowlands and that the lowlands accounted for about
half of the income generated by the Project, it was concluded that the
landlords shared a very small part of the increased income stemming from
the Project. Repeated efforts by the Completion Mission to gain informa-
tion from the farmers on the subject and to verify this assumption failed
as the farmers were unwilling to reveal any tangible information.
7.12      From the fact that the farmer's participation rate in the
highlands was much better than anticipated - 7,565 families obtained im-
provements over 4 years - it may be deducted that the unsatisfactory land
tenure situation was less of a disincentive factor in implementing the
Project than was originally thought. In fact, the Project seems to have
shown that owner operators and tenants can gain important benefits from
this type of development Project, and although comprehensive land refnrm
legislation was considered as central to any. fundamental improvement to
the rural life of Ethiopia, progress under the Project indicated that
land reform was not a prerequisite to successful implementation of the
Project. Furthermore, as the ex ante situation was not characterized by
an extremely uneven distribution of income and wealth, the possibility
that large landowners benefitted disproportionally from the Project seems
rather remote.
Government Budget and Foreign Exchange
7.13      The impact of the Project or. the Government's budget was not
estimated in the appraisal report. This constituted an important short-
coming in the analysis, as the Project, if successful, was supposed to be
duplicated in other parts of the country. However, without some knowledge
of how the Project affected the Government's budget, an important variable
was missing if a sound investment decision was to be made. As Ethiopia is
increasingly faced with budgetary problems, this aspect of appraisal took
on an added importance.
7.14      Annex 9 details theestimated Government cash flow stemming from
the Project.   For the economic analysis, a hypothetical cost stream
after completion of the Project was a';sumed, i.e., those costs necessary
to maintain the benefit stream of the fourth Project year. It was also
assumed that Government would finance 100% of the cost following IDA dis-
bursement. It can be seen from the Tatble that Government would run a
considerable net fiscal deficit over   he assumed 20 years of operation.
The deficit is estimated at about Eth'; 0.5 million per annum, or about
Eth$ 18 million at the end of twenty 'ears. The reasons for this sizable
deficit can be traced back ma'inly to:



_ 40 -
(a) the fact that sufficient revenues will not be generated
to repay the credit; and
(b) the high level of recurrent expenditure which would put
e heavy burden on Government after the initial investment
was completed.
7.15      However, de facto, the calculated deficit is a hypothetical
one and will not materialize. First, the second Wolamo project will affect
the Government overall cash flow stemming from the program; and second,
the Government, aware of the expense of the model farmer approach
selected by the Project, has decided to focus its development efforts on
a less intensive system through peasant associations. From this change
of development strategy, Government exoects a considerable reduction in
the operating costs of development projects such as CADU and WADU.
7.16      The foreign exchange impact of the Project was also not
estimated in the appraisal report, and therefore the ex post situation
can not be compared with the a priori estimates. The benefit-cost
analysis applied above evaluates the Project not only in terms of
national income but also in terms of its efficiency in earning foreign
exchange. In absolute terms, the Project may have an estimated net
contribution of foreign exchange of Eth$ 9 million cumulative by Year 10,
based on the assumption that the total output of the Project would have to
be imported without the Project.   If the assumption is modified and it is
assumed that only 50% of the total output would have to be imported without
the Project, the cumulative balance in Year 10 (the first year with a positiva
cumulative balance) would be only Eth$ 0.5 million (Annex 10).
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.01      In the previous Chapters an effort was made to compare WADUT's
results with original expactations and targets.   From this comparison and
from the experience gained, a number of conclusions can be sumarized:
(a)  The Project basically was completed two years ahead of
schedule, which is rather unusual when compared with
most IDA Projects. Targets concerning land planning,
settlement of farmers, road construction, land clearing
and soil conservation were reached satisfactorily. Due
to efficient extension service, the number of farmers
reached and crop production targets were exceeded in
Year 4 resulting in increased productivity and higher
benefits to the participating farmers.   Progress in the
water supply component was however, rather slow and little



- 41 -
was achieved in livestock production. Apart from the
Project's shortcomings in certain areas (such as live-
stock and water resources), Project costs seem to have
stayed within the projections.
(b) It has been stated that the most significant contribu-
tion that a regional development project can bring about,
apart from increases in production and income, is in creating
a meaningful awareness - social, economic and political among
the people. Unless the peasantry is made aware that such
development projects are not acts or creations of benign
leaders or generous foreigners, peasants are apt to regard
them, perhaps often rightly so, as alien entities. The
Project without a doubt contributed to the creation of an
awareness on the part of the farmers, although the extent of
this is not clear. The indications are too conflicting to be
generalized. For example: on the one hand the partici?ation
of families in the Project was larger than expected but, on the
other, credit and cooperative development, although successful,
showed signs of an increasing reluctance of farmers to partici,ate
in the scheme. This may have been a normal development after
the first enthusiasm had subsided, but it may also show a dis-
illusion and a lack of trust in WADU's operations.
(c) Taking the Project's achievements and its key elements
(extension, settlement, credit, marketing, cooperatives
and infrastructure) into consideration, the Project
concept seems to have been a sound one. However, the lack
of proper costing of different Project functions, together
with the unreliability of financial records, makes it impossille
to utilize the lessons from this Project for the benefit of
other projects. There&ore, the important question of
whether IWADU I experie.;ce would provide an approach which
could be duplicated in other parts of the country can not
be answered. Government, however, now seems to believe
that the approach of WrAT)U I, which relied heavily on extension
and Government services, is too cQstly to be ~uplicAted;
Governen,t has thexefore decided to:rely on peasant associa-
tions which apply a less intensive extension system to carry
out its agricultural development projects. However, the
Project seems to have had a satisfactory welfare (efficiency
and equity) effect.
(d) The relative weakness of the Planning and Evaluation Section
which failed to collect, document and analyse basic informatica.
The accounting system was never used as an effective management
tool. Poor records also contributed to opportunities for
falsifications, misappropriations and embezzlements.



- 42 -
(e)  the lack of trained personnel and the unwillingness,
especially of some of the younger staff, to remain in
the area caused problems for the management which resulted
in repeated organizational changes. By the end of the
first phase Project management had released all expatriates
and had only Ethiopian staff on its payroll.
(f) Although the marketing, credit and cooperative component
had a satisfactory start, it became increasingly clear as
the Project progressed that the pricing policy in the long
run would be crucial for their success.
(g) The cooperation between WADU and outside agencies was un-
satisfactory; the tension especially between the local
administration and WADU hampered Project implementation,
especially with regards to the road program.
8.02     IDA's role in the preparation of the Project was an important one,
although it is evident that its participation delayed the implementation
of the Project.  The appraisal document had several shortcomings, the most
important of these were the lack of annual cost breakdowns and a meaningful
cost classification, as well as the lack of a detailed work program for the
road and soil conservation components. Although various supervision reports
have stressed the importance of documentation and analysis, IDA failed-to
follow-up these points to make a strong presentation to the Ethiopian oficials.
The present management also felt that supervision missions could produce more
meaningful results if they would address themselves to specific issues, rather
than try to cover a broad spectrum within the limited time available.    Finally,
it seems that IDA did not (take the time to) learn from the WADU I experience
before the second project was implemented. In particular this is true of
the livestock component; although the targets were not achieved under the
first phase even more optimistic and unrealistic targets were set-up for
the follow-up project.



- 43 -
tE I
I.
t I
I  ~      @i-
*  I:      *- 



WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT
Organization Chart, June 13, 1972
INTEIrINISTERIAL COMMITTEE FOR WADU
VICE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE
E.     P.     I.    D.
|PROJECT DIRECTOR
DEP=TT PROJECT DIRECTOR
1*                               ~~I --        
Legal Unit                                Land Reform Unit     Plannig and
Evaluation Unit
FINANCE DIVISION    ADMINISTRATION               WORKS AND SERVICES DIVISION
DIVISION
Accounting                                      Workshop        Transport
Purchasing        Public Relations              Building        Brick Factory
Audits            Personnel                     Roads           Stores
Office Services               Water Supply
Club
MARKETING, CREDIT AND   TRAINING AND
COOPERATIVES DIVISION   TRIALS DIVISION       DEVELOPMENT DIVISION    LIVESTOCK DIVISION
Financial Control         Training              Extension DIvision     Animal Husbandry
Marketing                 Trials                Settlement             Animal Health
WADU Crop Farm        Land Planning           Livestock Product
Crop Protection       Home Economics



WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT
ORGANIZATION CHART as of DEC. 1972
|INTERMINISTERIAL COMMITTEE FOR WADU
ICE NIIIISTER OF AGRICULTURE
E.     p.     I.    D.
LPROJECT DIRECTOR]
DEPUTY PROJJCT-DIRECTOR
Legak Unit         Research Unit           PlanAng and       Intern), Audit &
Evaluation Unit   Budget Control
*   I                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FINANCI DIVISION      ADMINISTRATIL  DIVISION                                    DEVELOPMEN  DIVISION
Accounting            Public Relations                              Extension Highland       Training
Purchasing            Personnel                                     Extension Settlement     WADU Crop Farm
Office Services                               Land Planning             and Ploughing
Home Economics           Crop Protection
MARKETINJ, CREDIT AND               WORKS AND SERVICES DIVISION                       LIVESTOCJ DIVISION
COOPERATIVES DIVISION
Financial Control                         Workshop                                  Livestock Extension
Marketing                                 Building                                  Animal Health
Cooperative Development                   Roads                                     Animal Health
Central Store                             Livestock Production



- 46 -                            ANNEX 4
ETHIOP?IA
FIRST WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projects Manpower During Phase I WADU
(1970-74)
Year    Category     Actual   Recruitment    Separation
HL
1970-71  ML             176        176            -
Other Cat.
HL
1971-72  ML              48        225            46
Other Cat.     347         -            -
HL              18          7            11
1972-73  ML              47         11            15
Other Cat.     319         19            34
HL              14          3             7
1973-74  ML              42          1             6
Other Cat.     317         20            22
HL * High level incl. bachelor
ML _ Middle level prior college & diploma



ANNEX 5
ETHIOPIA
WOLAMO FIRST ACRICTLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Completion Mission, Oct. 28 - Nov. 23
Eth$ '000
Development Cess and Market Fees
Year             Development Cess-/         Market Fees-l
1970/71
1971/72
1972/73                  -                         2
1973/74                  37                        1
1974/75                  40                        1
1975/76                  72                        1
1976/77                  94                        1
1977/78                 94                         1
1978/79                  94                        1
1980/81                 94                         1
1981/82                  94                        1
1982/83                 94                         1
1983/84                  94                        1
1984/85                  94                        1
1985/86                  94                        1
1986/87                  94                        1
1987/88                  94                        1
1988/89                  94                        1
1989190                  94                        1
1990/91                  94                        1
1991/92                 94                         1
1992/93                  94                        1
1993/94                 94                         1
1994/95                  94                        1
1/ These are estimates based on the latest settlement figures.
The results ultimately will depend on the Government's
mobilization effort.
2/ Eth$ 25/qt sold to cooperatives which compares to Eth$ 30/year
in the appraisal.



=410PA
nisT W604ANO ApIVLCTURAL DNZIVOWO      f0
A.tu l nd 6et8tod Coots L. the _eouric A4.17,1.
1970/71     1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76   1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    19t9/80    19to/8t   196i/82    188/1i     1983/84   1914/83    1985/86    1986/87.   19867/88  19M8M8     1989/90
Tel cc 0Ach.,,gJ/             1,443,297    335,799    159,286    119,644       -                 200,000     30,000                         150.000     50,000     30.000              130,000     30,000     50.000              150,000     30.000 
P.,oI lMr                        39,727     17,140    465,778    644,8764   634,876   634,876    634,676    634,876    634,876    634,876    634,878   834,876    834,876  683,876     834.6?6    634.876    634.87  6   3 8487S  634 .76    634,S76
Local Co,t                    1,802,587  3    -191.323  1,882,6854/1699,877/ 574.000  500,000   500,000    500,000    30.000     500,000    500,000   500,000    500.000    500,000    500,000   300.000    500.000    30000       00.000   300.000
b.Wdy P.rtili     rl      -          6/                40,0000 985501        g8,550      8.3550   98,530     98.350     98.530     98,350     986530    86,330     8,350      963550    96,1S0     96.330     8, 530      6.350    98,330     "8,350
7Tbho1c1 Aa.tatsone              13,356     70,792     86,054     52,534                  -               -                                                                     -
AerLAl  8olot.Vphy               75,000                  -          - -        -                    - 
1/p                -J       138,890     43,830    375,030                  -          -         -          -                                                                          _
llol. e  roog.e                   6730       5 700     6b270        -                                         _ -            -            -                  -          -               -
TOTAL     3,482,717  3,739,639  2,683.903  2,990,531  1,307,426  1,233,426  1,433,428  1,283,426  1,233,U46  1.233,426  1,383.46  1,283,46  1.283,426  1,23,426  1,33.426  1,283,426  1.23,42G   t,053.426  1,3l3,636  1,083,U4
1/ No hd- plcLn       of for0.18  eehaa Applied Ln th1. t1b1..
2/    .l..din fotilim.r
/8:b.1d  8th$ 4/q for DlP.
bI 0    idy ILth8 6.20/q feo DA?.
6/ 1.oced by U.K.
7/ NInso      SBeImte Us $3 pr hoohold 



ETHIOPIA
FIRST WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gross Value of Incremental Production
(Eth$)
Vaccinati n
Maize     Wheat      Teff     Cotton     Chillies    Coffee     Program-9     TOTAL
1970/71        -        -         -           -           -         -           -            -
1971/72      166,404   1,900    106,236     95,500      15,480     71,820    150,000       507,740
1972/73      608,000   4,301       -        98,800      84,500   143,640     120,000     1,059,241
%o
1973/74    1,235,590   5,460     82,274    166,740      54,400    260,680     95,000     1,909,744
1974/75    1,729,826   3,360     53,080    142.920      46,800    260,680     95,000     2,331,666
1/ Mission estimate



- 50 -                           ANNEX 8
ETHIOPIA
FIRST WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Econonc Internal Rate of Return
(Eth$)
Benefit Shadow     Cost Shadow
Rate              Rate
1970/71                -           3,562,222
1971/72             660,062        3,821,280
1972/73           1,377,013        2,910,387
1973/74           2,482,667        3,335,162
1974/75           3,031,166        1,597,638
1975/76           3,031,166        1,423,886
1976/77           3,031,166        1,683,889
1977/78           3,031,166        1,488,889
1978/79           3,031,166        1,423,886
1979/80           3,031,166        1,423,886
1980/81           3,031,166        1,618,888
1981/82           3,031,166        1,488,889
1982/83           3,031,166        1,488,889
1983/84           3,031,166        1,488,889
1984/85           3,031,166        1,618,888
1985/86           3,031,166        1,488,889
1986/87           3,031,166        1,488,889
1987/88           3,031,166        1,488,889
1988/89           3,031,166        1,618,888
1989/90           3,031,166        1,488,889
Internal Rate of Return    10%



FIRST WOLUi0 AGRICULTURAL CEV-,FKN T PROJECT
Govcerrnen t Cash Flow
(Eth$'G00u)
Cash Inflow                                          Cash Outflow
Interest                             Total       Net          Net
From   Fro= Taxes   Deve1opment      Total   -    Project    Service   Devaluation                Cash     Outflow!     CuuLative
7e r        TDA    and Duties       Cess      Cash Inflow      Cost     Charge         Loss     -Principal  Outflow     Inflow      %0ut.fl w
1970/71       -          171            -           171         3,329        5          487           ^       3,821     -3,650        (3,650)
717.,'72     900        159            -         1,059         3,533       26           -            -       3,59      -2,503        (6,150)
1;72!.73    1,000        105            -         1,105         2,088       44          491           -        2,623    -1,513        (7,663)
13?3i74       800         96            37          933         1,918       52           -            -       1,970     -1,037        (8,705)
i9 74.7 5     703         15            40          755           672       59           -            -          731       +24        (3,ESl)
1,7'/76       100         15            72          187           599       59           -            -          658      -471        (9,152)
-P376i77       -          15            94          109           799       59            -5 -                    53      -749        (9,901)
157./7S        -          15            94          109           648       59            -           -          707      -598.      (10,499)
j. 97S/79                 15            94          109           650       59           -            40         749      -640       (11.139)
1c79!ao        _          15           .94          109           650       59            -           40         749      -640       (l1,7.79)
9.-,0/31      _        . 15            94          109           650       59           -            40         749      -640      -(2,I419)
1cE>!82       '-          15            94          109           650       59           -            40         749      -640       (13,059)
i9-.2/32       -          15            94          109           650       59            -           40         749      -640       (1-,l699)
15913/4        -          15            94          109           650       59            -           40         749      -640       (.14,339)
19Z'3S5        -          15            94          109           650       59            -           43         749      -640       (.14,979)
iS5/36         _          15            94          109           650       59            -           40         749      -640       (15,649)
19S.t&7       _          15            94          109           650       59            -           40        ,749      -640       (16.,239)
1937/88        -          15            94          109           o50       59            -           40         749      -640       (16,529)
193-8/39       -          15            94          109           650       59            -           40         749      -649       (1-7,569)
19Z9090        -          15            94          109           650       59            -           L21        830      -721       (18,290)
IJ  Estimate. 
1970/7i . 1971/72
Taxes:     Duties              122        41
107. Income Taxes    49       18 i'
171       159



-52-                            ANNEX 10
ETHIOPIA
FIRST WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Impact
Eth$'000
Total      For.Exch,   For.Exch.
Year   For.Exch.   Value o /   Value of     Balance    Balance    Cumulative    Cumulat-ve
Cost       Output-     OutputZ!      I           II       Balance I    Balance II
197Q/71   1,591           -          -        (1,591)    (1,591)       (1,591)     (1,591)
1971/72     563           508        254         (55)      (309)       (1,646)     (1,900)
1972/73     711         1,059        529         348       (182)       (1,298)     (2,082)
1973/74   1,191         1,910        955         719       (236)         (579)     (2,318)
1974/75     635         2,322      1,166       1,697        500         1,118      (1,818)
1975/76     635         2,332      1,166       1,697        500         2,815      (1,318)
1976/77     835         2,332      1,166       1,497        331         4,312        (987)
1977/78     684         2,332      1,166       1,648        482         5,960        (505)
1978/79     634         2,332      1,166       1,697        500         7,657           (5)
1979/80     634         2,332      1,166       1,697        500         9,354         495
1980/81     785         2,332      1,166       1,547        431        10,901         926
1981/82     684         2,332      1,166       1,648        482        12,549       1,408
1982/83     684         2,332      1,166       1,648        482        14,197       1,890
1983/84     634         2,332      1,166       1,698        500        15,895       2,390
1984/85     784         2,332      1,166       1,547        431        17,442       2,821
1985/86     684         2,332      1,166       1,648        482        18,090       3,303
1986/87     684         2,332      1,166       1,648        482        19,738       3,785
1987/88     634         2,332      1,166       1,698        500        21,436       4,285
1988/89     784         2,332      1,166       1,547        431        22,983       4,716
1989/90     684         2,332      1,166       1,648        482        24,631       5,198
1/  Based on assumption that total output would have to be imported without Project.
2/  Based on assumption that 50% of output would have to be imported without Project.



ETHIOPIA; WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
MINISTERIAL COMMITTEE
PROJECT DIRECTOR
DEPUTY PROJECT DIRECTOR
CHIEFS$|               [ -        CHIEF                              CHIEF, MARKETING,                       C EF
=INANCE AND PERSO|NEL                      DEVELUOPMENT                     CREDIT AND COOPERATIVES              TRAINING AND TRIALS
SUPERVISOR
SUPERVISOR
SELTLE ME(TS
.JVFICR          OFFICER j OF FICER               OFFKER           OFFICEFIE
.~ ~   ~~~~~A. 1-CSW4                                   . I                         CENER                        I                         S       1E
DEVELOPMENT                    IMPRQIIEMNTS Ita                   DEVELOPMERT                 S MARICET                FARMER AND                        FIELD TRIALS,
IN hCA.IDS                    Co>FC-  JSUBAN(D"                    PLANNING                  AND CREDIT              STAFF TRAININ                  DEIOASTRArQS A1D
.   Ali POCSESSNGC              AND LAND REFORM               CENTERS                                                SEED MULTIPWLCTION
AD. ,.STRATIVE L'D          SETTLE -NT                    CATTLE INOCLATIONS                   CONSTRCTION          PROJECT                            PEST
INANCIAL SEPIICES                                            AO MUSBA"DRT                     AND MTE"ACE          STAT15TTCS                         CONTROL
TO ALL SLCTI'YI.S
A9,1,g* 9                                                                                                                                                                 (2R)SbRDN4281






2gP                   C JDE C  T        A               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - z  -
x v W aX V /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AUGU5T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1969  ~0  0



