lal         ~RESTRICTED
FILE  C~WY                       Report No. PA-9
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ETHIOPIA
October 8, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1               =      Ethiopian dollars (E$) 2.50
E$ 1                       us$ o.40
E$ 1 million        =      US$ 400,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 meter (m)                3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)           0.62 miles
1 square kilometer
(km2)                0.39 square miles
1 hectare (ha)      =      2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)            2.20 pounds (lb)
1 quintal (100 kg)         220.46 pounds
1 metric ton               2,204.6 pounds, or
(m ton)       -      0.98 long ton (lg ton)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADS  : Agricultural Development Service, Nairobi
CADU : Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit
ESEC : Ethiopian Spice Extraction Comparnjy
IEG  : Imperial Ethiopian Government
ITM  : Imperial Tobacco Monopoly
WADU : Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit
WTP  : World Food Program (of the United Nations)



ETHIOPIA
WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..........................      ......       i
I.    INTRODUCTION ********.**e***.*9***9,*...................999    1
II.   BACKGROUND  ....*.....**      .................................    1
The Agricultural Sector ........ . . . . . . .  .......... .. . .  2
Farming Patterns ............    ..... O........................  2
Peasant Agriculture in the Development Plan ...*...    3
The Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit .........   4
The Wolamo Sub-Province ....     4.....    ................    4
ITT. THE PROJECT ..........................................
A. The Project Area *9999....                 .......99    6
Climate, Topography and Soils .....     ................    7
Land Use and Tenure in the Highlands .....    .........    7
Land Use and Tenure in the Settlements      ............    8
Livestock  9* *  ... .**.....    ...........***...    9
B.  Project Works ................................    9
Land Planning, Settlement and Consolidation .......   9
Roads, Clearing and Soil Conservation      .............  10
Water Supplies *99*99999999....99 ..9.   11
Extension Services . ..............   11
Marketing Centers and Coffee Processing Centers ...   12
Agricultural Credit .... * *..*............. ... ......    13
C.  Phasing of Development .............*..*.............   13
D.  Project Costs and Financing      4.........................
Financing of Project Costs and Interest
During Development ....... O.............. ...   16
Recovery of Project Costs ......... ...........oo.  16
Procurement and Disbursement      ......................   16
(Continued)
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission,
which visited Ethiopia in November 1968, composed of Messrs. Haynes and
Ahluwalia (Bank) and Denness (Consultant).



-2-
Table of Contents Cont'd:
Page No.
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..................   ........  17
Policy and Coordination ...........  17
Project Organization ... ........ ....... * ....   .....  18
Financial Procedures and Auditing    ................    18
V.    CROP AND LIVESTOCK IMPROVEMENT AND PRODUCTION .......       19
Crops                                                19
Livestock           .................... 21
VI.   MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOMES .......................   21
A. Market Prospects .......................... ........ .   21
B.  Price Prospects .................*........*ee..**   21
C.  Farmers' Incomes and Savings     ........................   23
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..... ...........   23
VIII. RECONMENDATIONS ..,...o..o...... ................   25
ANNES
1.  Nutrition and Disease
2.  Agriculture
3. Marketing, Credit and Recovery of Costs
4. Mechanical Equipment
5.  Project Costs
6. Staffing
7. Farm Incomes (Settlement Farm Budget at Maturity)
8. Economic Benefits
Figure 1: Organization and Functions
Map 1: Ethiopia
Map 2: Wolamo Awraja



ETHIOPIA
WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Imperial Ethiopian Government (IEG) has requested a Development
Credit to assist in financing the first six-year phase of the Wolamo Agricul-
tural Development Unit in the southern highlands. About 90% of Ethiopian
population derive their livelihood from agriculture, which contributes about
two-thirds of GDP, and the majority live in the overcrowded plateaux of the
EthioDian massif. This would be the Bank Group's first attempt to finance
agricultural development in Ethiopia, but a similar project in a different
region is being financed by the Swedish International Development Authority
and measures would be taken to coordinate the two projects.
ii.       The project area includes high, densely-populated plateaux and
uninhabited savanna at lower altitudes. The project would comprise a regional
"package program" to imnrove both yields and quality of crops in the highlands
and to resettle farmers in the lowlands. Roads, markets and water supplies
would be built and farm credit provided in both areas.
iii.      The extension campaign would be concentrated in three highland
"tdevelopment areas" comprising 6,000 farms; improved seed, fertilizer, imple-
ments, working oxen and dairy cows would be provided on credit. Production
of maize, wheat and livestock would be increased by these measures. Four new
processing centers would improve the quality of coffee, but there would be no
major increase in production. Project staff would encourage land consolida-
tion and assist in the application of proposed land reform legislation.
iv.       About 1,050 families would be allotted 6 ha farms in the settlements.
They would repay, over 20 years, the cost of roads, soil conservation, clear-
ing and initial cultivations. The main crops would be maize, mainly for sub-
sistence; chillies, for export; and cotton, for import substitution. Insec-
ticides and sprayers, as well as the items listed above for the highlands,
would be available on credit.
v.        The project would be executed by a special unit of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Project Director would be directly responsible to the
Minister of Agriculture. Project staff would operate markets and supervise
credit but it is intended that these functions would be taken over progres-
sively by cooperatives.
vi.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$5.1 million.  Fo-
reign exchange costs are estimated at US$2.2 million or 43%. International
competitive bidding would be employed to procure goods valued at Us$630,000.
Other disbursements would be made on a percentage basis.
vii.      At full production, the average highland farmer's cash income would
be increased from US$82 to US$130, while settlement farmers would obtain sub-
sistence for their families plus a cash income of US$175. These increased



- ii -
incomes would generate additional revenue through the 'agricultural income
tax"; land tax collections are also exnected to increase. The rate of return
to the economy is estimated at 13%.
viii.     The Wolamo Agricultural Development Project is suitable for a
credit of US$3.5 million, which would cover 69% of project costs. Financing
of part (45%) of local costs is justified by Ethiopia's need for capital and
to encourage investment in agricultural projects despite their low foreign
exchange component.



ETHIO?IA
WOL,AMO ACGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The ImDerial Ethiopian Government (IEG) has applied for a creuit to
assist in financing the first phase of the Wolamo Agricultural Development
Unit, an integrated "package program" for the improvement of smallholding
agriculture in Sidamo Province in the southern highlands.
1.02      This would be the Bank Group's first attempt to finance agricul-
tural development in Ethiopia. The project proved difficult to formulate
and prepare, partly for reasons applicable to many African countries where
agriculture is practiced by numerous near-subsistence small farmers under
sociological conditions not conducive to change, and partly because of the
present unsatisfactory state of institutional and administrative structure
for agricultural development in Ethiopia.
1.03      This project is essentially a package Drogram to provide adminis-
trative reorganization, technical assistance, construction of roads, market-
ing centers, coffee processing, water supplies and agricultural credit. It
would aim to promote better agricultural production by numerous small farmers
whose reactions are difficult to predict with precision. About half of the
proposed credit would finance operational and personnel costs.
l.o4      The project as now proposed results from the combined efforts,
extending over more than two years, of IDA staff from the Permanent Mission
in East Africa and headquarters in Washington; the ADS; and the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program. It is the best that it has so far been possible to de-
vise and there is no better agricultural project available for consideration
at present. It is relatively limited in scope, and it is felt justifiable
that such a start should be made on this modest scale, with a view to devel-
oping on a much larger scale when more experience has been gained.
1.05      This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission,
which visited Ethiopia in November 1968, composed of Messrs. Haynes and
Ahluwalia (of IDA) and Denness (Consultant). The mission was assisted in
Ethiopia by Messrs. Burke and Grimshaw (of ADS).
II. BACKGROUND
2
2.01      Ethiopia, covering an area of about 1.22 million km , is one of the
larger developing countries in Africa. The greater part of the country con-
sists of the hills and high plateaux of the Ethiopian massif, which rises to
4,620 m. To the west, the massif falls away to the foothills and clay plains
along the frontier with Sudan but on the eastern side it drops abruptly into
the desert along the Red Sea (the lowest point, Lake Asale, is 116 m below



sea level) and the Somalia border. Although Ethiopia lies within the tropics
(4°N-170N), the differences in altitude - theoretically equivalent to a temp-
erature difference of 47°C - provide a wide range of ecological zones.
2.02      The population, now estimated at 24 million, is increasing at a
rate probably over 2.0% per annum. Addis Ababa (pop. 560,000) and Asmara
(146,000) are the only major cities and the total urban population is about
1.7 million. In the arid lowlands, below 900 m, where crops can be grown
only with irrigation, the heat and lack of water have discouraged settle-
ment. About 85% of the population lives in the highlands, i.e. at alti-
tudes of 1,400-3,000 m. In the mountains, at altitudes above about 3,000 m,
the climate is too cold and wet for subsistence crops while below 1,400 m
malaria is still endemic. The distribution of population within the high-
lands is irregular, reflecting dynastic changes and tribal wars rather than
the distribution of natural resources. The population density frequently
exceeds 210 per km . Over the country as a whole there is about 0.4 ha of
cultivated land per capita but in many populous centers there is less than
0.2 ha per capita. In such areas, of which the project area is typical,
Dressure of population on arable and grazing land, and often on drinking
water supplies, presents an immediate and crucial problem.
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      About 90% of the population derives its livelihood directly or
indirectly from agriculture, which in 1967 contributed 60% of GDP. In 1968
agricultural commodities accounted for over 90% of all exports: arabica
coffee alone accounted for 56% of exports followed by oilseeds, 8%; hides
and skins, 8%; and cereals and pulses 8%.
2.04      Ethiopia was virtually self-sufficient in staple foods until recent
years but now imports wheat. Cotton is also imported, production being far
less than the demands of the local mills and cottage industries. The live-
stock population is large, estimated at 25 million cattle, 12 million goats
and 11 million sheep, but efficiency is low.
2.05      Growth in the agricultural sector at an annual rate of about 2.4%
during 1962-68 has lagged behind that of the economy as a whole, which has
increased at a rate of about 4.5%. This is barely more than the population
growth and there has been little, if any, improvement in the inadequate
levels of nutrition (see Annex 1).
Farming Patterns
2.06      Three main farming types may be recognized among the bewildering
variety of local practices developed in response to topographic, climatic
and demogranhic pressures:-



- 3 -
(i) Peasant farming in the highlands. Cereals (maize, wheat,
barley and teff 1/) occupy about 75% of the cropped land,
which is normally cultivated by wooden, ox-drawn ploughs of
ancient design. Holdings are very small and an exceedingly
complex land tenure system tends to inhibit technological
advance.
(ii) Commercial cereal farming. Larger farms, suitable for mech-
anization, occur (or are being developed) in certain areas
where pressure on land is not intense. The crop depends
on the altitude: typical areas include wheat farms, notably
on the southeast escarpment of the Rift Valley; maize farms
on the Rift Valley floor; and the new sorghum farms - typi-
cally 1,000 ha or more - in the uninhabited plains of the
northwest. The farmers, usually Ethiopian landlords or
entrepreneurs, have already shown a notable eagerness to
adopt technical innovations such as mechanization and fertil-
izer when credit is available.
(iii) Farming concessions. Modern farming methods and irrigation
are still found only on a relatively small number of conces-
sions usually, but not always, employing foreign capital and
management.
Peasant Agriculture in the Development Plan
2.07      In the Third Five-Year Plan, IEG recognizes the two distinct
problems of increasing production and exports from commercial farms and
of increasing the output of both subsistence and cash crops by peasants.
The target set for agriculture as a whole is a growth of 3.1% per annum
comprising:-
Commercial farms                          12.6% per annum
Peasant cash crops                         3.8%  "
Peasant subsistence farming                1.8%  "
2.08      The major constraint on agricultural development is the acute
shortage of trained staff at all levels. The Bank Group has received a
request from IEG to appraise an education project which would strengthen
the existing agricultural institutes. This request includes creation of
ten "general purpose centers" that would become the nuclei of an expanded
extension service.
2.09      The Bank Group has appraised a project, prepared under the FAO/
IBRD Cooperative Program, for the first phase of development of commercial
1/ Teff (Eragrostis abyssinica) - a short annual grass whose tiny seed is
used to prepare an unleavened bread.



farminq in the Setit Humera district of the North-west Lowlands. This
project would include infrastructure to consolidate the spontaneous devel-
opment, by entrepreneurs, of 1,000 ha mechanized farms; about 100,000 ha
are already under cultivation, the main crops being sorghum, short staple
cotton and sesame. Longer-range plans for irrigated agriculture in the
Awash Valley are being studied. The Awash Valley Authority, assisted by UNDP
and consultants, is preparing two projects, one of which will be appraised
bv the Bank Group in the fall of 1969.
2.10      The IEG considers that the problem of the highland peasantry is
too massive and too complex to be tackled on a nationwide front. Legisla-
tion on land tenure reform is Droposed (see para 3.17) but the immediate
policy is to rely upon "package programs" concentrating resources of funds
and manpower in limited areas. Five suitable areas have been identified but
detailed feasibility studies have been completed for only two, Chilalo and
the present project in Wolamo.
The Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit
2.11      The Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit (CADU) was established
in September 1967 by the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA)
and IEG, who each provide staff and share other expenses in the ratio SIDA
67:IEG,33 (see Annex 2 page 13). In its first year definite progress has
been made, particularly in the use of fertilizer and improved seed.
2.12      CADU has many similarities with, but some differences from, the
Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit (WADU). CADU covers a wider range of
farming patterns, from very large mechanized wheat farms to typical highland
peasant holdings, and the overall population pressure is less than at Wolamo.
Unlike Wolamo, Chilalo is close to several towns that provide ready outlets
for high value, but perishable, dairy and poultry produce.
2.13      The aims and techniaiues proposed for the Wolamo project would be
similar to those now adopted by CADU: the organization structure and finan-
cial procedures of the project are modelled on those of CADU. In general,
the Wolamo project would be complementary to CADU, extending similar ideas
to an area more typical of the Ethiopian highlands. However, some degree
of duplication would exist: in particular, in the absence of a competent
nationwide channel, the two projects would have independent farm credit sys-
tems. A liaison committee would be established to ensure, inter alia, that
credit terms and conditions, and oDerational procedures, at CADU and the proj-
ect were comoatible (see para 4.02).
The Wolamo Sub-Province
2.14      The Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit lies on the northwest edge
of the Rift Valley in the Wolamo Awraja (sub-Drovince) of Sidamo province
(Map 2): Wolamo AwraJa (area - 3,178 km2; population - about 543,000) is the
home of a distinct and fairly homogeneous ethnic grouD - the Wolamos - sharing
a common language - Wolaminya. The Wolamos are socially cohesive and tradi-
tionally familiar with group actions and organizations. They are almost



- 5 -
exclusively agrarian. Like manv peoples subjected to severe population pres-
sures, the Wolamos have developed a higher standard of husbandry than is
found in many parts of tropical Africa, and they are basically industrious.
However, low nutritional and health standards limit their working capacity:
their diet is low in proteins, especially animal proteins, and is subject to
wide seasonal variations, while intestinal and other diseases are prevalent.
Endemic malaria, which previously prevented settlement of the lower parts of
the Awraja, is now being attacked as part of a national program (see Annex 1).
The Assocation and IEG have agreed upon the schedule for the eradication
campaign in the project area.
2.15      The IEG is renresented in the Awraja by a Sub-Governor, who has
wide powers. The Awraja is divided into six Woredas (districts) each with
an Assistant Governor, a treasurer, a court and a small police force. Under
the very active leadership of the Sub-Governor, the local administration has
embarked upon a significant number of self-help projects including construc-
tion of roads linking each of the six Woredas with the administrative capital,
Soddu (pop. 14,000).
2.16      Deforestation and erosion have led to a gradual deterioration of
streams that are the sole source of drinking water in the Awraja. Some
streams, once clear and perennial, now run only after rain; the remaining
perennial streams often run at the bottom of deep, steep-sided gullies.
Carrying water for household use and watering cattle has become arduous
and time-consuming, diverting labor from more productive jobs.
2.17      Communications have been improved by the self-help road project
(Map 2) but mules and donkeys are still the main form of farm-to-market
transport. From markets, produce is trucked to Soddu and then to Addis Ababa,
395 km by all-weather roads. The normal cost of transport is about US 2.5¢
per m ton km rising to about US 4¢ during the main coffee season. The last
140 km of the main road was financed from the IBRD Second Highway Loan
(166 ET); before it was completed, transDort rates were US 10-120 per m ton
km during the coffee season. Soddu has a grass airstrip, served by twice-
weekly Ethiopian Airways passenger/freight flights. Telephone, telegraph,
and postal connections also link Soddu with Addis Ababa.
2.18      Wolamo Awraja is typical of many areas of the Ethiopian highlands.
Lessons learned from the proposed project could be arplied to the other
regional development programs proposed in the Third Five-Year Plan.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01      The project would be the first six-year phase of the Wolamo Agri-
cultural Development Unit (WADU), an integrated program for agricultural
improvement in the Wolamo Awraja of Sidamo Province. The project would
provide infrastructure in three selected areas of the densely-populated
highlands and establish new settlements in uninhabited savanna areas. It
would include the cost of staff, buildings and equipment for:-



- 6 -
(a) Land Planning and Settlement, including reorganization of
holdings in the highlands and construction and supervision
of new settlements;
(b) Road Construction, Land Clearing and soil conservation works
in settlements and at critical points in the highlands;
(c)  Provision of Water SunDlies in settlements and the improvement
of sunplies in the highlands;
(d) Establishment of Extension Services, including a training
center for farmers and staff, and a cattle inoculation service;
(e) Construction of Marketing Centers and coffee processing
centers; and
(f) Agricultural Credit, in kind, for farm inputs, implements and
cattle.
In later phases of the WADU these actions would be extended to cover the
balance of the settlement and highland areas in the Wolamo Awraja. These
later Dhases would be prepared by project staff, on the basis of lessons
learned during the project, and would be ready for appraisal in 1972.
A. The Project Area
3.02      The project would comprise two separate areas with very different
characteristics:-
(a) The highlands (1,500-3,000 m above sea level) in Sodo and
Boloso Woredas (Map 2). Roads and markets would be construc-
ted and water sunplies i=rroved throughout both Woredas, which
have a population of 236,000, with a density of 160-275 per
km2. Very intensive extension services, backed up by credit
and other services, would be provided in three "development
areas" each containing about 2,000 farms and would thus di-
rectly affect some 30,000 people.
(b)  Settlements, in the savanna (1,100-1,500 m above sea level),
at Abela and Bale ('fan 2). These settlements, which now
contain 590 and 110 farms resDectively, would be reorganized
and expanded to a total of 1,750 farms, providing homes and
livelihood for nearly 10,000 peonle.
3.03      The project submission proposed settlement of two further areas,
Gelcha-Gofa and Gogora (Map 2).  However, it was found during appraisal
that both sheet and gulley erosion had increased since the last survey (1954).
The usable area would be much less than estimated in the submission and road
and other costs would be very high because of the size and number of gullies.



- 7 -
Trhe IEC( agreed that these areas should be excluded from the present project
but that project staff would make detailed studies to determine whether they
could be developed economically at a later date.
Climate, Topography and Soils
3.04      Both the amount and distribution of rainfall in the highlands (aver-
aze 1,1400 mm) are reliable and adequate. The bimodal pattern allows double
croTDing (usually teff after maize) and the average cropping intensity on
arable land is over 1.5.
3.05      Rainfall records for the savanna cover a very short period and
may be inaccurate. The annual mean appears to be about 800 mm but records
and local weather lore alike suggest that both amount and distribution are
unreliable. Poor distribution seems to occur about once in three, and
drought roughly once in five, years.
3.06      The highlands are hilly, ranging from steep hillsides - which
should not be cultivated - to gently rolling plateaux. The reddish-brown
soils, with a clay content of about 50%, are porous, moisture retentive, and
easily worked. However, they also erode easily. Soils are somewhat deficient
in nitrogen and phosphate but are very well suited for peasant farming pro-
vided erosion is controlled.
3.07      The savanna is generally flat with slightly heavier (clay content
60%) grey soils; as in the highlands, nitrogen and phosphate reserves are
low.  Virgin soils are difficult to plough but the soils become easier to
work with continued cultivation. With proper management, the soils are
suitable for settlement by small farmers.
Land Use and Tenure in the Highlands
3.08      About 85% of the land in the highlands is utilized in some way,
although only about 20-25% is under annual crops (Annex 2, Table 1). The
homesteads, although accounting for less than 10% of the area, are of con-
siderable importance since all cattle are housed within the family hut at
night and dung and household wastes are applied to the homestead crops,
esuecially coffee. Because of the altitude/temperature effects and differ-
ing population pressures, different cropping patterns are found in the two
Woredas.



-8-
Sodo       Boloso
--% total area --
Crops:
Coffee                           2            1
Cereals                          9           21
Beans                            0            2
Other food crops                 4            4
Pastures and fallow                   59          40
74          68
Forest and woodlots                    9           4
83          72
3.09      The land tenure system in the project highlands is exceedingly
complex but is tyDical of many parts of Ethiopia (see Annex 2, para 13 et seq).
While 65% of families own some land, fragmentation has so reduced the size of
holdings that most owners rent additional plots from the few major landlords.
Landlord-tenant relationships may involve crop or work sharing and/or cash
rents; similar arrangements for the use of the landlord's work oxen add
further complications. The average holding size is about 1.5 ha, the area
under annual crops averaging about 0.25 ha in Sodo and 0.42 ha in Boloso.
However, these averages are misleading because of the preponderance of less-
than-average holdings (87% of the total): the median holding is only about
0.5 ha.
Land Use and Tenure in the Settlements
3.10      The savanna zone has been used as relief grazing during the cropping
season in the highlands and is also grazed by nomadic herds. There is vir-
tually no cropping since fear of malaria has prevented settlement. The vege-
tation comDrises 200-700 trees per ha - mainly Combretum spp. 5-25 cm diameter -
interspersed with acacia thickets.
3.11      All the land in the savanna belongs to Government.  Settlers would
be selected by a committee including representatives of local communities,
ministries and the project. About 75% would be drawn from Wolamo Awraja,
the rest from other parts of the country. Settlers would be given ownership
of their 6 ha holdings after a four year probationary period but would be
required to pledge their title as security for outstanding loans and develop-
ment cess payments (Annex 2 paras 38 and 39). The terms of the title, which
are acceptable to the Association, include provisions prohibiting subdivision
and reauiring settlers to follow a cropping pattern approved by the project.
Subject to modification in the light of experience the standard cropping
pattern would be:-



-9 -
ha
M4aize              1.8
Cotton              1.0
Chillies            0.2
Grazing             2.0
5.0
Permanent grass,
waterways, road
verges, etc.      1.0
6.0
About 80% of the total savanna land can be utilized for agriculture, the
remainder being reserved for bush grazing, roads and waterways.
Livestock
3.12      Livestock are important in both highlands and settlements, provid-
ing draft power and manure as well as food and a major portion of the cash
income. There is an average of 4.5 livestock per family but, again, this
average is misleading since 30% of farmers have no cows at all and 40% have
no work oxen.
3.13      Mortality due to disease and malnutrition is high, especially
among young stock: only 60% survive to the age of two years and 40-50% to
maturity. Awraja authorities have started inoculating cattle against major
diseases (rinderpest, anthrax, black leg and pleuropneumonia) but lack the
staff needed to make a significant reduction in losses. Staff made available
by the project (para 3.28) would increase the number of vaccinators from four
to twelve, enabling the campaign to cover all cattle in Wolamo Awraja.
B. Project Works
Land Planning, Settlement and Consolidation
3.14      New settlements would be comprehensively planned; existing holdings
would be modified to conform to the overall plan. Particular attention would
be paid to the alignment of roads, to the protection of natural waterways,
and to exclusion of areas orone to erosion. Detailed Dlans would be prepared
for soil conservation works and plots would be planned to allow efficient
farming rather than to provide identical farms.



- 10 -
3.15      Aerial surveys and mapping are included in the project, but the
United Kingdom has agreed to finance surveys of Wolamo as part of its techni-
cal assistance Drogran to Ethiopia. Aerial photography of the settlement
areas has been completed.
3.16      In the highlands, detailed alignment of project roads, the location
of markets, and the choice of areas for extension programs would be based on
the new surveys.
3.17      The complexity of the traditional tenure system and the apparent
apathy of the highlanders prevent ranid or sweeDing changes in land tenure or
landlord-tenant relationships. The IEG has prepared, and will submit to the
legislature, a package of reform bills providing for cadastral surveys and
registration of titles; regulation of landlord-tenant agreements; and taxa-
tion measures which would penalize landowners who leave land idle. When
these bills are enacted, registration procedures would be implemented im-
mediately in Wolamo Awraja. Project staff would cooperate with representa-
tives of the Ministry of Land Reform and advise them in applying the new laws
to the project area; the advantages of land reform would be a part of the
extension program. It should be stressed, however, that although land reform
would be beneficial to agricultural development as a whole, it is not a pre-
requisite for success in achieving the output targets forecast in the high-
land area.
3.18      Most highland farmers work at least two "parcels" of land (overall
average 1.7). Some consolidation is possible, even in the absence of legisla-
tion, if the various parties can be brought together and convinced of the
need. Taxation of idle land would create new possibilities for consolidation
and reorganization.
3.19      The project staff would include a Lands Officer, with a small staff,
to deal with land problems arisina from project works and settlement and to
assist the extension service in promoting consolidation and reform.
Roads, Clearing and Soil Conservation
3.20      Road construction, clearing, soil conservation and other works would
not be large enough to attract international contractors and there are no
suitably equipped local firms. The project would therefore include staff,
buildings and equiument for an Engineering Section (Annex 4) as well as the
cost of bridging and other materials. The Sub-Governor at Soddu has already
demonstrated that reasonably competent machine operators and mechanics can
be obtained and trained locally; with the appointment of an engineer to
supervise the heavy machinery units no difficulty in finding and training
operators is anticipated.
3.21      New, unsurfaced minor roads (4 m wide) and farm tracks (3 m) would
be included in the project. In the highlands, approximately 190 km would be
built, bringing every farm in the project area within three km of a road or
track (see Map 2). A further 185 km would be built in the settlements, giv-
ing each farm direct access to a track. The estimated cost of minor roads
is US$630 per km; of farm tracks, US$38 per km (excluding overheads).



- 11 -
3.22      The existing settlements have been cleared by tractors because the
higher costs are offset by reductions in the amount of food which must be
issued to settlers during the settlement Deriod. 1/ To allow project settlers
to plant food crons in their first season, 2 ha of each farm would be chained-
cleared twice to facilitate ranid burning; the remaining 3 ha would be chained
once and finished by the farmer in his second and third years. The averare
cost of chaining is estimated at US$66 per farm.  The Engineering Section
would cultivate - at a cost of US$42 ner farm - the 2 ha to be planted by
each settler during his first season. Soil conservation works, mainly cut-
off and contour drains, are estimated to cost US$92 per farm.
Water Supnlies
3.23      Water supDlies in the highlands would be improved by conservation
measures: where aD ropriate, weirs would be constructed or flow diverted.
Much of this work would be undertaken as self-help schemes organized and di-
rected by project staff; a total of US$24,000 would be provided for the
purchase of supDlies.
3.24      Water sunplies for the settlements and project headquarters can only
be designed after detailed surveys. Project costs were extraDolated for the
former from detailed estimates for a sample area - US$62 per farm - and for
the latter from estimates for individual houses.
Extension Services
3.25      Although there is a need for agricultural research, sufficient in-
formation is already available from Ethionia and areas with a similar ecology
(notably parts of Kenya) to provide the material for an extension campaign.
This camnaign would cover the two settlements; in the highland areas, however,
the main effort would be concentrated in three "development areas".
3.26      Two highland development areas, representing the two different
cropping patterns described in para 3.08, have been provisionally selected.
The third would be chosen in the light of the first season's experience.
Each area, under the control of a Senior Field Agent, would comprise two
groups of 1,000 farms. During the first two years in each group, there would
be four Field Agents and 24 demonstrators; thereafter, Agents and demonstrators
would be renosted within the project until, in the sixth year, each group would
have only one extension worker.
3.27      The extension system in the settlements would be similar but each
Senior Agent, with three Field Agents, would be responsible for 900 farmers.
However, in order to provide detailed help and supervision to new farmers
the relative number of demonstrators would be greater - ten instead of six
to each Agent.
1/ IEG has submitted a request to the World Food Program for 8,000 m ton of
food to be issued to settlers.



- 12 -
3.28      One Veterinary Agent, assisted by a demonstrator, would be respon-
sible for extension work on animal husbandry in each group in both highlands
and settlements.  In addition, eight Veterinary Agents and supporting staff
would be attached to the Awraja Veterinarian to carry out inoculation cam-
paigns in the project area.
3.29      The Senior Field Agents would be graduates or diplomates of the
Ministrv of Agriculture's training schools, which would also train the Vet-
erinary, and some Field, Agents. However, since it is essential that most
extension workers should be native Wolaminya-speakers, secondary school
leavers and others would be recruited and given preliminary and in-service
training. The Droject would include provision for the construction, equipping
and oneration of a training center and a project farm. When not required for
staff training, the center would provide courses for farmers: about 20% of
farmers in the highlands and settlements would attend ten-day courses during
the nroject Period.
Marketing Centers and Coffee Processing Centers
3.30      The present marketing structure in the project area - and throughout
the Ethiopian highlands - is neither eauitable or efficient, involving a long
chain of merchants, middlemen and agents; only tobacco is purchased by a
government monopsony. 1/ The policy of IEG is to encourage the spread of
cooperative marketing societies, which have already been established success-
fully in major coffee-growing areas (see Annex 3).
3.31      Five simple markets, three in the highlands and one in each settle-
ment, would be built at a cost of US$13,700 each. Four coffee processing
centers, each with 3-disc pulpers, winnowers and graders sufficient for a
100-ton per year outout, would be built in the highlands.  Three would oper-
ate in conjunction with markets; the fourth, in an area to be developed
during a later phase, would help to determine whether improved processing
alone has a significant imoact on development in the highlands. Markets and
processing centers would be operated at first by project staff; accounts,
buying and selling would be centralized. All transactions would be based on
standard weights and measures and prices would be related to ruling market
or contract rates. Working capital, reaching a peak of US$200,000 per annum
at full production, would be borrowed from the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia.
3.32      Primary cooperative societies would be formed at each market, al-
though all facilities would be available to non-subscribing, non-voting "asso-
ciate" members (Annex 3). Each society would become involved progressively
with operations but would not take over management until members had demon-
strated their capability. At a later stage, a cooperative union would be
formed to take over responsibility for the centralized services provided by
the project organization.
1/ The Ethiopian Grain Corporation does not purchase in the area; it's
nearest depot is at Shashemene 140 kms distant.



- 13 -
3.33      Exnerience in CADU with a similar marketing system has been en-
couraging. It is expected that the cooperatives would be able to operate in-
dependently by Year 6 of the project. However, if these expectations are not
realized, IEG has agreed to continue to provide funds and staff to assist the
cooneratives in onerating the markets and coffee centers until the cooper-
atives are able to operate independently.
Agricultural Credit
3.34      The project's Credit Section, under the direction of the Chief,
Marketing, Credit and Cooperatives, would be responsible for providing sea-
sonal and medium-term credit to farmers. The Credit Section would keep
accounts of all transactions, which would be subject to internal audit by the
Controller, Finance, as well as to annual audit by independent auditors (para
4.07). Applications from farmers would be forwarded by Field Agents for ap-
proval by Credit Supervisors. Cash loans, for hiring labor, would be provided
only in settlements. All other loans would be issued in kind at the market
centers. Credit Section staff would attend the markets at harvest time to
collect repayments. It is intended that the cooperative societies would be-
come progressively involved in the credit operation. The first stage would
be the formation of subcommittees, in each primary society, to advise the
Credit Supervisors on the creditworthiness of applicants.  Finally, the
societies and union would assume full responsibility; it is expected that
this could take place by Year 6 but, but as in the case of marketing, IEG
would continue to provide staff and funds if the cooperatives are not yet
ready to assume full responsibility.
3.35      Existing legislation on cooperative societies is satisfactory.  The
project would adopt, from the start, the interest rates laid down in the law.
The interest charge for a typical farmer's seasonal loan (fertilizer, seed,
pesticides) would be E$8 for the 3-4 months, equivalent to 12% per annum
(i.e. the commercial banks' lending rate to cooperatives plus 3% to cover
handling costs and bad debts). Medium-term loans, e.g. for cattle or sprayers,
would bear 8% interest. Further details of the credit system are given in
Annex 3.
C. Phasing of Development
3.36      The project submission proposed a five-year program but the project
would cover six years, mainly to allow additional time for recruiting, pro-
curement and building. Phasing would be: -



- 14 -
Year 1/
1        2         3        4         5         6
Highlands
Development areas
started                 -         1        1         1
Intensive extension
(no. farms)             _     2,000    4,ooo    4,000    2,000
Settlements
Clearing and conserva-
tion (ha)               -      3,000    3,300        -         _        _
New settlers (no.)        -         -        500      550        -        -
Staff
Professional (no.)        4         18       18        18        16       12
Technical (no.)           1         33       62        64        64       64
1/   Project years are Gregorian calendar years, Year 1 starting on
January 1, 1969. This corresponds with the crop year.
D. Project Costs and Financing
3.37      Estimated project costs during the six-year development period,
totalling E$12.6 million (US$5.1 million), are detailed in Annex 5 and sum-
marized below:



- 15 -
E$ '000                   US$'00o  (rounded)
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Development and Extension
Buildings                   1,100      275   1,375      44o      110     550
Equipment                     265      985   1,250      105      395     500
Staff and allowances        2,820   1,880   4,700    1,130       750   1,880
Operation and maintenance  2,075       815   2,890      830      325   1,155
Other                         130     200      330        55      80     135
Contingency (10%)             640     415   1,055       255      165     420
Sub-total                7,030   4,570  11,6oo    2,815   1,825   4,640
Farm Credit Inputs               10      645     655         5     260     260
Other
Aerial survey (UK)            --      260      260      --       105     105
Settlers' food (WFP)          125     -        125       50      --       50
Total                    7L165   5,475  12,640    2,865   2,190   5,055
3.38      Cost estimates include duties, applicable to vehicles, fuel, build-
ing supplies, etc., totalling E$612,000 (US$245,000) and provision for freight
surcharges imposed because of the closure of Suez Canal. Estimates for build-
ings are based upon standards and unit costs agreed by IEG during appraisal.
Staff costs are based on Government pay scales and estimated cost of foreign
staff. A 10% contingency allowance is included in Development and Extension
costs but Farm Credit expenditures would be adjusted to match available funds.
Foreign exchange costs, 43% overall, were estimated for individual items on
the basis of normal sources of supply.
3.39      Many cost items are common to both highland and settlement areas;
the assumptions used in allocating such costs in the following table are out-
lined in Annex 8.
Highlands    Settlements      Total
(------------- Us$0oo… -----)
Headquarters and administration                575            445        1,020
Conservation, roads and land clearing          340            675        1,015
Extension and settlement                       920            280        1,200
Training and trials                            320            150          470
Farm credit inputs                              15            245          260
Marketing and co-ops                           275            240           515
Aerial photography                              35             70          105
Settlers' food                                  -              50           50
Contingency                                    250           170           420
Total                                   2,730         2,325         5,055
(E$ '000)                             (6,810)        (5,830)      (12,640)



- 16 -
Financing of Project Costs and Interest During Development
3.40      Ethiopia's general need for capital, and the desirability of en-
couraging IEG to invest in agricultural projects despite their low foreign ex-
change component, justify the inclusion of a part (45%) of local costs in the
proposed credit. The credit would finance 69% of project costs, the balance
being provided by IEG, UK Technical Assistance and the World Food Program:
US$'000 Equivalent        Percent
Proposed IDA Credit                        3,500                  69
IEG                                        1,400                  28
UK and WFP                                   155                   3
5,055                100
3.41      The proposed credit would be US$3.5 million, repayable on standard
terms. The borrower would be the Imperial Ethiopian Government, which would
make budgetary subventions to the project.
Recovery of Project Costs
3.42      IEG would recover part of the cost of the project through a devel-
opment cess on settlement farms which would recover, over 23 years, the cost
of clearing, initial cultivations and other development works with interest at
7%. Further, a marketing fee, sufficient to cover operating costs, would be
levied at all project markets so that farmers would become accustomed to paying
for their share of this service by the time that it is taken over by coopera-
tives. IEG has agreed to impose a development fee of at least E$58 (US$23)
per year and a marketing fee of E$30 (US$12) per year. Approximately E$1.7
million (US$0.7 million) would be recovered by these measures during the proj-
ect's life, the exact amount depending on the timing of the establishment of
marketing cooperatives; further details are given in Annex 3, Table 1.
3.43      Farmers' repayments for seasonal and medium-term credit would be
retained in a revolving fund. Unless otherwise agreed by the Association,
IEG would use this fund solely for providing credit to farmers. About one-
quarter (i.e. E$125,000) of the farm credit funds would be used for seasonal
loans and would be "rolled over" 3.5 or more times before cooperatives take
over. The remainder (i.e. E$430,000) would be used once only for medium-term
loans, mainly for sprayers (E$165,000) and cattle.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.44      Vehicles, equipment and other goods imported specifically for
project use would be obtained by international competitive bidding, except
for individual tenders costing less than E$50,000. Local tractor assembly
plants would be eligible to compete under international bidding but would
receive no preference. Local purchases of other supplies and all building
contracts would follow agreed procedures which ensure adequate advertising



- 17 -
and effective competition. The Project Director would be given authority to
make local purchases up to E$2,500 (US$1,000) without reference to the Tender
Board (the present limit is E$500).
3.45      Withdrawals from the credit account for identifiable and documented
imported goods and services would cover 100% of cif costs, totalling about
E$2,913,000 (US$1,165,000 equivalent). In the event that local assembly plants
were successful in international bidding, withdrawals would cover 100% of fac-
tory gate price; such withdrawals are not expected to exceed US$57,000. With-
drawals in respect of other costs would be made at an agreed percentage of
certified expenditure. Undisbursed balances would be available for cancella-
tion. IEG would be responsible for any excess over estimated cost.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for the implemen-
tation of the project. However, the Third Plan recognizes:
Possibly more than any other sector, the institutional and
administrative structure for agricultural development urgently needs
drastic overhaul. Many different ministries and agencies have some
interest; there is little co-ordination and much overlapping. Never-
theless, the main burden must continue to be borne by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Government proposes to institute an early and determined
program to strengthen that Ministry . .
4.02      No firm plans for reorganization were available at the time of
appraisal but IEG has subsequently decided to crease a "project preparation
and service unit" within the Ministry of Agriculture. Some staff has already
been appointed. The Credit Agreement would provide for the transfer of ap-
propriate functions (e.g. those of the liaison committee, para 2.13) to the
new unit as and when approved by the Association.
Policy and Coordination
4.03      An inter-ministerial committee, under the chairmanship of a repre-
sentative of the Minister of Agriculture, would make policy decisions affect-
ing the project, recommend budgets and staffing requirements, and coordinate
the activities of ministries and agencies in the project area. In the project
area, a Wolamo Development Committee would be established to provide liaison
between the Awraja authorities, the local representatives of ministries and
the farmers; a subcommittee would select settlers. It would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed credit that these committees, and the liaison
committee (para 2.13), had been appointed with terms of reference acceptable
to the Association.



- 18 -
Project Organization
4.o4      To ensure timely and controlled development WADU will operate as a
separate entity during the development phase. It will be headed by a Project
Director responsible for the administration and organization of the project,
subject to policy rulings by the interministerial committee and to the limita-
tions of the approved budget. He would be assisted by a Deputy. The project
organization (Annex 6 and Fig. 1) would be divided into five main sections,
each supervised by a Section Chief:
Finance would provide administrative services to all branches of
the project. An accountant and the necessary clerks would be
posted to Ministry headquarters to prepare documents for reimburse-
ments.
Development would include sections dealing with settlements, ex-
tension, livestock and engineering. The latter would service all
project buildings and equipment and would build and maintain roads,
conservation and other works.
Marketing, Credit and Cooperatives would provide staff for market
centers and coffee factories and for credit operations.
Training and Trials would be responsible for both staff and farmer
training and for management of the project farm. It would also
include small sections for crop protection and collection of sta-
tistics.
Personnel would be responsible for the recruitment of all project
staff below the level of Section Chief.
4.05      The staffing requirement is detailed in Annex 6, Table 1.  Because
of the present acute shortage of trained and experienced Ethiopians, IEG
recognizes that foreign staff would be required for key management and execu-
tive posts, but they would be phased out during the project, leaving a cadre
of Ethiopians who should be capable of managing future phases of WADU. The
Association would exchange views with IEG on the qualifications and exPerience
to be specified for ten of the eleven key posts (Annex 6) and would approve
appointments to four of them (Director, Deputy Director, and Chiefs of the
Finance and Marketing sections). IEG has requested Agricultural Development
Services (ADS) to provide staff, or assist in recruiting suitable applicants,
for some key posts. It would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit that the Project Director, his Deputy, a Planning Officer and an Engin-
eer had been appointed.
Financial Procedures and Auditing
4.o6      The method adopted, in 1967, to ensure prompt availability of funds
for CADU has proved satisfactory and would be adopted for the project, with
minor changes to accommodate differences between the Association's procedures
and those of the Swedish International Development Authority. IEG would open



- 19 -
a bank account in the name of the project and would pay into it, in quarterly
installments in advance, the funds necessary for the approved budget. It would
be a condition of effectiveness that the first such installment had been paid.
4.07      Project accounts would be examined by an independent auditor.  Cop-
ies of the audited accounts would be submitted to the Association within five
months of the close of the financial year to which they refer.
V. CROP AND LIVESTOCK IMPROVEMENT ANID PRODUCTION
Crons
5.01      Production from the settlement areas will be increased by cropping
over 3,000 ha of new land; however, yield increases in both highlands and
settlements will make the major contribution to increased output. Details
of crop improvement techniques to be used are given in Annex 2 and summarized
below:-
(i) _Maize. Yields can be raised substantially by timely planting
at proper spacing, improved weeding (encouraged by row plant-
ing) and better varieties; responses to fertilizer are not yet
known to be economic. The project will introduce high yield-
ing, true-breeding "synthetic" varieties from Kenya, avoiding
the problems of issuing hybrids to unsophisticated farmers.
(ii) Wheat and Teff. Farml trials have shown these crops respond
very favorably to fertilizer. Improved selections, developed
in Ethiopia, would be made available to farmers.
(iii) Coffee. Although the potential is great, experience has shown
that it is a slow process to persuade farmers to raise the yield
of homestead coffee by improved husbandry, e.g. mulching, prun-
ing, selective replanting. However, project estimates take ac-
count only of the improvement in quality, as a direct result of
coffee processing centers and the better return to farmers be-
cause of improved marketing.
(iv) Cotton. Cotton, a recent innovation in the area, has not yet
been subjected to severe pest attack; the project would pro-
vide sDrayers and insecticide since several pests are likely
to become of economic importance as time passes and the area
under cotton increases. A new variety, resistant to "black
arm" disease, would be introduced and the project would control
seed supplies. However, the major increase in yields would
result from simple improvements in crop husbandry and in man-
agement measures to alleviate the conflicting labor needs of
cotton and chillies.



- 20 -
(v) Chillies A pest that first appeared in 1968 would be controlled
by spraying; this would more than double present yields and at
low cost. Project staff would supervise nurseries and would
arrange the issue of seedlings to control distribution, to
ensure timely transplanting and, particularly, proper spacing.
(vi)  Tobacco.  Oriental tobacco was introduced into the project
highlands four years ago. The Imperial Tobacco Monopoly (ITM)
would continue to provide an extension service and issue
seedlings, twine and other inputs. ITM, which is obliged by
law to purchase all leaf, has already accumulated large surplus
stocks (see Annex 2, para 58). Therefore, while yields could
easily be improved, project staff would cooperate with ITn' field
workers in an attempt to control production at present, or re-
duced, levels but to improve quality and thus the price received
by farmers.
5.02      A farmer who responded fully to the extension campaign and adopted
every recommendation could double or treble his total output. In assessing
production of the project as a whole, however, allowance has been made for a
minority of totally unresponsive, and a vast majority of partially responsive,
farmers as well as for seasonal rainfall variations in the settlements (for
details, see Annex 2). The expected yields and incremental production at
maturity (Year 9) are:-
Yield                 Incremental Annual
Present            Maturity          Production
---------- kg/ha ----------      ------ m ton-
Settlement
Maize                1,200                1,800               4,400
Seed cotton            14o                  560                 950
Chillies               100                  500                200
Highland
Maize                  800                1,300               1,350
Wheat                  900                1,200                  50
Teff                   550                  850                100
1/  Normal yields approach 250 kg per ha; see para 5.01(v).



- 21 -
5.03     'Minor homestead crops play an important role in the farm economy
and would not be ignored by extension workers. In particular, attention
would be given to imDroving the quality and providing a regular market outlet
for ginger, which was once an important cash crop but has fallen into dis-
repute because of violent price fluctuations.
Livestock
5.04      The extension campaign would attempt to bring about a small degree
of destocking - 3% - and to stabilize the herd at about 157,000 while en-
couraging better management of young stock. With the reduction in losses
due to the inoculation campaign, this would allow an incremental increase
of 5,300 head equivalent in the annual offtake. Introduction of 540 dairy
cows would increase local milk supplies by the equivalent of 7.5 m ton ghee
per year and by Year 9 provide an annual surplus of 180 upgraded cattle for
sale. Details of the livestock program are given in Annex 2.
VI. MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOM4ES
A. Market Prospects
6.01      Sale of project produce presents few problems.  The Wolamo Awraja
is a net importer of all cereals, cotton and livestock and the increased pro-
duction of these items would be small in relation to the total trade in
Ethiopia. Coffee exporters are already accustomed to handling washed coffee,
although in 1968 it accounted for only 5,000 out of 85,000 m ton exported;
since the project would emphasize only methods of improving quality of coffee
it would not affect the Ethiopian quota under the International Coffee Agree-
ment. As noted in para 5.01, production of oriental tobacco will not be in-
creased because of marketing problems.
6.02      There is a considerable local trade in chillies but the project,
with its marketing organization, would be able to take advantage of contracts
offered to large growers by the Ethiopian Spice Extraction Company (ESEC),
which processes chillies for export. A major product - a red food coloring -
is exported to a parent company in USA. ESEC is currently processing about
1,000 m ton chillies per year but plans to expand capacity by 50% or more in
the next five years; it is therefore able and willing to purchase the project
production.
B. Price Prospects
6.03      Because of the lack of organized, well-integrated markets, and of
transport difficulties that have been only partially overcome by the highway
program, commodity prices vary widely between different parts of the country
and show marked seasonal variations. In most cases, farmgate prices are un-
necessarily low and the farmers gain no advantage from any favorable seasonal
trends.



- 22 -
Cereals
6.o4      The following prices have been used in evaluating the project:
Maize - E$12 per quintal (US$49 per lg ton)
Wheat - E$20 per quintal (US$81 per lg ton)
Teff - E$25 per quintal (US$102 per lg ton)
These approximate to current farmgate prices at harvest time. 1/ Cereal
nrices are expected to remain at present levels.
Cotton
6.05      Ethiopia imports large quantities of cotton lint for her textile
mills. However, spinning and weaving are also cottage industries and the
project area is particularly renowned for its hand-made cotton robes. The
present price of seed cotton in Wolamo is about E65 cents per kg. When al-
lowance is made for ginning and transport, this is equivalent to about 30
pence (US30 cents) per lb of lint cif Liverpool or some 20% above current
world prices. Nevertheless, it is still well below the retail price in
Soddu market for small lots of imported lint. However, since the future
demand of the cottage industry is unpredictable, evaluation has been based
on the assumption that the price of seed cotton will be E55 cents per kg
falling to E45 cents by 1975 which is in line with expected trends for
equivalent lints.
Chillies
6.o6      The local price for chillies is currently about E$100 per quintal
(US$405 per lg ton). While many farmers will be able to take advantage of
this price, the ESEC contract price, E$60 per quintal (US$245 per lg ton)
has been used for evaluation.
Coffee
6.07      The current price for unwashed, ungraded coffee is about E$1,450
per m ton at Addis Ababa. Coffee from existing cooperative processing centers
- similar to those to be built in the project - commands a price of about
E$1,900 per m ton. This price has been used in estimating farmers' incomes,
but economic benefits have been evaluated on the fob Assab equivalent (E$2,080
per m ton, equivalent to about US37 cents per lb cif New York). These prices
are not expected to decline.
1/ Over recent years, maize prices have fluctuated between E$10 and E$24 per
quintal but harvest prices have been more stable, averaging E$10-12
with a slight upward trend since 1960.



- 23 -
C. Farmers' Incomes and Savings
6.o8      It is not possible to construct farm budgets for the many possible
combinations of holding size, cropping pattern, and improvements adopted;
further, surveys of the area reveal wide differences in present cash incomes
(E$90 to E$1,400 per annum). The net incremental annual return to the high-
land project area would be about E$850,000, equivalent to about E$130 per
farm. After deducting the new marketing fee, the average farmer will benefit
by about E$100. In general, the net increase in disposable cash income will
be about 30% for all farmers in the highland development areas. This is con-
sidered to be an adequate incentive.
6.og      Farm budgets for settlement farms are given in Annex 7.  In addition
to growing their own food, the family would sell crops and livestock valued at
about E$800 per year. The cash income, after paying loan installments and the
development cess, would rise to an average of E$435 per farm, providing an ex-
cellent incentive to settlers.
6.10      Under a new law, nassed in 19067, landlords and tenants will be liable
to income tax on their gross agricultural incomes. Assessments will be made by
mobile teams from the Ministry of Finance but at the time of appraisal no assess-
ments had been made in the project area. Land, health and education taxes are
levied on farm land. Sample surveys show that the average land tax was E$7 per
family in the project area. However, there was a wide range of taxes per family
(E$1 to E$60) and per hectare (E$0.50 to E$15.00).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project would produce heterogeneous benefits including increased
yield from existing farms, production from new farms, and improvements in the
quality of produce. The means by which these benefits would be obtained, and
the yield and price assumption have been described in the preceeding chapters.
At full production, which would be achieved in Year 9, the incremental annual
value due to project actions would be:-
Incremental Annual Value (Year 9)
(E$ '000's)      (%)
Increased output from highlands            1,033            45
New production from settlements            1,250            55
2,283          100
Further details, including the contribution of each crop, are given in
Annex 8.



- 24 -
7.02      The costs are more readily defined than the benefits.  All project
costs (net of duties and taxes) have been taken into account in evaluating the
project; residual values have been ascribed to mobile earth-moving equipment -
which is in demand for many development projects in Ethiopia - but not to
houses and other items which would be of economic value only if IEG proceeded
with later phases of the Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit (WADU). Farm
costs include all inputs on the new farms in the settlements but only the
additional inputs (fertilizer, seed, inoculations, etc.) needed for the improve-
ment program in the highlands. Inevitably, the increased production will re-
quire additional labor. No economic cost has been ascribed to farm labor
since the opportunities for alternative productive activity are insignificant.
However, where the proposed farm plan indicates that the family would need to
hire additional workers, labor has been charged at the current local rates,
E$1.50 per man day, in the farm budgets.
7.03      Taking account of these direct benefits and costs, the economic rate
of return for the project as a whole, over 20 years, is about 13% 1/ (see
Annex 8). The yield assumptions underlying this calculation are conservative.
Increased production of coffee has been disregarded and only value added by
improved processing included as a benefit. In the light of experience and
future market developments it may prove possible to concentrate on higher val-
ue crops (coffee, tobacco and, possibly, ginger) with a consequent improvement
in both the rate of return and farmers' incomes. Moreover, because of the
sunk investments noted above, and of the availability of trained and experi-
enced Ethiopian staff, later phases of WADU would probably show a higher re-
turn than the present project.
7.04      As has been noted (para 3.39), project costs can only be apportioned
between the highland and settlement parts of the project by making a somewhat
arbitrary allocation of joint overhead costs, which amount to about one-third
of the total. When this is done on the assumptions shown in Annex 8, the ratio
of the costs of the two carts is highlands, 54: settlements, 46. Obviously,
the highland part, requiring 54% of the costs but providing only 45% of the
benefits has a lower economic rate of return (about 10% over 20 years) than
the settlements (about 17%). However, the two parts are not alternative pro-
jects. Each requires some services which could not be provided economically
for one part alone. A typical example is the earth-moving equipment, which is
required primarily for the settlements but is also needed for a small number
of vital works in the highlands. In addition is not possible to extend the
settlement area meantime.
7.05      The project would increase significantly production of cereals and
livestock products in the project area, both of which are now brought in from
other parts of Ethiopia. However, the project's production would be too small,
in relation to the nation's total, to produce any surpluses. The project
would provide adequate incentives to farmers and would help to move them from
1/ If farm labor costs are included at current daily rates the rate of
return is about 11%.



- 25 -
the subsistence to the monetary sector of agriculture. Last, but not least,
the project - if successful - would have a demonstration effect and provide
data for the formulation of other improvement projects in the Ethiopian high-
lands.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During Credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(i) the terms of the settlers titles would be acceptable to
the Association (para 2.14) and IEG would recover part of
project costs by development and marketing fees (para 3.42);
(ii) if at the end of year six the cooperatives are not yet
ready to take over independent operation of the markets,
coffee processing centers, and farm credit activities, the
IEG will continue to provide the required staff and funds
required for those purposes;
(iii)  the Association and IEG will exchange views on the qualifi-
cations to be specified for key posts and approve four
appointments (para 4.05);
(iv) IEG would open a bank account in the name of the project
and pay into it, in quarterly instalments, funds necessary
for the approved budget (para 4.07).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit would include
the establishment of policy-making, liaison and local committees (para 4.03),
appointment of four key staff (para 4.05) and payment of the first instal-
ment of funds into the bank account (para 4.07).
8.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Development
Credit of US$3.5 million, on standard terms.
October 8, 1969






ANNEX 1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
WOLAMD AGRICULTUIRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NUTRITION AND DISEASE_11
1.        The level of nutrition is low.  The average caloric intake of
adults is about 1,900 C per day, although the IBRD economic report quotes
2,100 C as the national level. Further, this low intake must be seen in
the physical perspective - high, steep terrain and lack of mechanical aids
for even the simplest jobs.
2.        The diet is bulky, with a predominance of carbohydrates.  Ensete
(false banana) is grown in every homestead and both the roots - which are
the best part - and the stem are eaten. Sweet potatoes are also grown in
most homesteads. Sugar cane is grown for chewing but consumption of sugar
is very low in rural areas. Maize is the staple cereal crop, being cooked
in various forms and used for brewing. While 95% of farmers grow some
maize, over 70% purchase supplementary supplies. Wheat and, more particu-
larly, teff are considered as luxuries and poor farmers will sell their
production and purchase maize with the proceeds.
3.        Although several types of beans are eaten; rural diets are ser-
iously deficient in animal proteins. Conspicuous amounts of meat may be
consumed during infrequent ceremonial occasions or when an animal is
slaughtered, but the peasant has no means of conserving his supplies and
the marketing system in rural areas is too primitive to provide a regular
supply of small pieces at reasonable prices. Milk is usually taken as
skim, the butterfat being converted to ghee and sold. Cabbages, onions
and spices are used but most peasant diets do not provide adequate amounts
of vitamins and minerals.
4.        About a third of the farmers interviewed had more than one wife.
The average number of surviving children was five per family, but infant
mortality is very high. Every farmer interviewed had lost at least one
child (maximum 8, average 4). This high mortality is the result of a com-
plete ignorance of hygiene and child care rather than of any single,
spectacular "killer disease". Poverty, ignorance and a scarcity of clinics
have led to a fatalistic attitude to disease and to a reliance on tradi-
tional cures that often do more harm than good.
5.        Malaria, endemic in the savanna zone and lowlands throughout
Ethiopia, is now being tackled by a well-organized national eradication
campaign. The country has been divided into four regions, designated "A"
through "D", on the basis of several criteria including availability of
resources. The campaign takes place in four phases:
1/ This annex is based upon the report of surveys of the project area
conducted by the FAO/IBRD Preparation Mission.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(i)    Preparatory surveys:  identification of mosquito species;
presence of malaria;
(ii)   Attack:  concentrated measures, including spraying, to
interrupt transmission of malaria;
(iii)  Consolidation:  spot spraying; treatment of carriers;
(iv)   Maintenance.
The high priority "A" regions are now in the third phase of the campaign;
the first phase is nearing completion in "C" regions.
6.        The existing settlements were established by relying on prophy-
lactic drugs without attempting eradication of mosquitoes. This proved
generally successful in Abela, but there were outbreaks of malaria, and
some deaths, in Bale.  Wolamo Awraja is in a "C" region, but IEG has under-
taken to provide special measures and several eradication teams were active
in and around the project area during the visit of the appraisal mission.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURh
1.        The Wolamo Awraja includes four distinct ecological zones:  the
Acacia-Commifora savanna of the Rift Valley floor at an altitude of 900 m;
the Combretum savanna, about 1,100-1,500 m; the highlands, 1,500-3,000 m;
and the mountains, over 3,000 m.
2.        The Acacia savanna accounts for only about 5% of the Awraja.
It is fairly flat but has been overgrazed by both local and nomadic herds,
causing severe and general erosion in the steeper parts. The rainfall
(about 600 mm) is too low and unreliable for rain-fed agriculture, but
there are a few concessions, irrigated from the Belata River. The waters
of Lake Abaya are too saline for irrigation.
3.        There are four mountains in the Awraja, three of them - Damot,
Humbo and Tulicha - in the project area. The climate is too cold and wet
for annual crops or coffee but the upper slopes provide grazing and thatch-
ing grass.
h.        The project would be concerned with the highlands and savanna
zones, which are described separately in this annex.
A. THE HIGHLANDS
5.        The highlands comprise gently rolling plateaux interspersed by
steep-sided valleys with infrequent rocky outcrops. The natural forest
cover - Podocarpus, Olive, and Cordia spp - has long since disappeared,
but 6% of the area is devoted to woodlots, planted with Eucalypt. Land
use in the two Woredas of the project area, Sodo and Boloso, is summarized
in Table 1.
Climate
6.        The mean annual rainfall is 1,400 mm, falling in two distinct
periods, April-Nay and July-October.  There are an average of 132 rainy
days per year. The amount and distribution of rainfall are reliable and
do not seem to limit agricultural production; however, there are no data
on micro-climate and it may be that the rain shadows of the mountains or
other influences cause local problems. The bimodal peak allows double
cropping, usually teff after maize.
7.        Although the project area is in the tropics, 70N, the altitude
limits temperature to a maximum of about 300C and causes a wide diurnal
temperature range, 200C. Cold air flowing down into the Rift Valley gives
rise to strong, steady, nocturnal winds.



AMEX 2
Page 2
Soils
8.        The soils, of volcanic origin, are red to reddish-brown wnth a
clay content of about 50%. Their slight acidity (pH5) warrants care in
selecting fertilizers but does not require any special corrective measures.
The soils are porous and moisture retentive and can easily be cultivated to
a fine tilth. However, they also erode easily. Along the edges of the
plateaux there are a few swampy floodplains, with seriously impeded drainage,
useful only for grazing (Table 1); in most of the highlands, however, drain-
age is good.
9.        A number of fertilizer trials on wheat (24) and teff (38) have
shown that the soils are moderately deficient in nitrogen and phosphate but
have adequate levels of potash.
Cultivation
10.       Fallow land is broken with a hand hoe or, more commonly, an ox-
drawn plough. There are few, if ary, fields in the highlands that are
large enough to permit the use of tractors. Any attempt to create units
large enough far economic mechanization would involve not only the usual
social problems but also:
(a) destruction of woodlots and hedgerows which provide vital
fuel supplies; and
(b) a grave danger of increased erosion because of longer
drainage runs.
11.       All ox ploughs are made of wood to an ancient design.  They are
of the "stick" or "country" type and do not invert the soil. Penetration
is poor and at least three passes are needed to reach the required minimum
depth, 10 cm. Two cattle are used, yoked side-by-side. A good pair can
plough 0.2 ha per day but many farmers plough as often as nine times,
giving an overall rate of 45 days per ha.
12.       There is a shortage of oxen, which might be alleviated by using
a single ox for lighter work such as final ploughing and weeding. Trials
are being made with single yokes. Improved implement designs are needed
but caution is necessary. For all its obvious faults, the present design
is made and repaired from inexpensive, local materials; more important still,
it leaves the soil in an irregular, lumpy condition which helps to prevent
erosion.
Land Tenure
13.       The present diversity of land ownership and tenure can be traced
back to feudal times, although the concomitant military services (e.g.
carrying tents, providing mules) were abolished over twenty years ago.
Privately-owned land is inheritable, and may be sold, leased or mortgaged.
In the past, Government granted rights of usufruct to employees in lieu of



ANNEX 2
Page 3
salaries or pensions. Such rights were not assignable or inheritable, but
there were no restrictions on renting. In recent years, right holders
have been able to obtain full private ownership of up to h0 ha by payment
of a fee.
14.       There is little, if any, cultivable government land remaining in
the highlands. The preparation mission found that the useful land is
owned by about 30,000 owners but that a few major landlords (14%) own 60%
of the land. More than half the landowners have more than one parcel of
land; a third have adult sons working on their land. In Sodo Woreda, 45%
of landowners have tenants; in the less densely populated Boloso Woreda,
25%. In all, there are about 17,000 farmers who own no land at all and
are tenants only. However, the holdings of about half of all landowners
are too small, so they rent additional land from major landlords. Thus
the majority of farm families are involved in landlord/tenant relation-
ships; on2y 4% of the population of the project area are neither owners
nor renters of land.
15.       Landlord/tenant relationships are diverse. Tenancies are gen-
erally inheritable, but the arrangements are usually unrecorded and disputes
between heirs and landlords are common. About 50% of all tenants now pay
cash rents; 33% are sharecroppers; and about 17% have arrangements combin-
ing rents and sharing. Most tenants (75%) contribute labor to the land-
lord, either as part of the tenancy arrangement or in return for use of
the landlord's work oxen; normally, three man days' labor are required for
the use of a pair of oxen and plough for one day.
16.       In addition to the labor contributed by tenants, the larger land-
lords hire labor at peak periods. Hiring is rather more common in Sodo,
where 27% of farmers hire labor, than in Boloso (20%).
Holdirg Size
17.       The average size of holding (arable plus pasture) revealed by the
preparation mission siurvey was 1.5 ha. However, landlords' holdings aver-
aged 2.0 ha and tenants' only 0.5 ha. Moreover, these averages conceal
the very skewed distribution of ownership:
Size of Holding     Owners    Tenants    All Farmers
(          ~~~% -------
Less than 0.3 ha      28        56            40
Less than 0.6 ha      46        80            63
Less than 1.6 ha      80        98            87
More than 1.6 ha      20          2           13
Thus, almost all tenants', and 87% of all farmers' holdings are less than
average size. Most farm two or more separate parcels (average 1.7). A
minority of landlords (20%) farm the large holdings.



ANNEX 2
Page~~
Labor
18.       According to the 1966 Census, the average size of household in
Wolamo Awraja was 4.Q, but the preparation mission survey suggested a much
higher figure, 7.9. The effective labor is probably about three or four
per household. There is a clearly defined division of labor: adult men
attend to the farm; women look after the homestead, garden and brewing;
and children tend and water the livestock. However, there are many com-
peting demands and distractions. The preparation and cooking of staple
foods, especially ensete (false banana), are tedious and time-consuming.
The average distance to the nearest water is 300 m, but some families
have to walk over 1 km to obtain their daily requirement, 4 Imp gallons
(40 lb) of water. Most farmers go to market - the local social center -
at least once a week; 25% go twice. About 45% go to church regularly.
Many farmers contribute their labor to landlords and to local self-help
development schemes. As has been seen (Annex 1), poor nutrition and
disease reduce the working capacity of both sexes and all age groups.
19.       Thus, while the population density is high, there is no over-
whelming surplus of available labor at present. Time-honored social
patterns of attending market and church, and traditional eating habits,
are difficult to change. The project will therefore emphasize labor-
saving institutions (better water supplies and roads, more work cattle and
implements) and include methods which increase yields without a correspond-
ing increase in labor (improved varieties, fertilizers).  The latter,
which would be common to both highlands and settlements, are described in
part "C" of this annex.
Cropping Pattern
20.       The typical highland holding consists of the homestead, arable
fields and pasture. The homestead is the center of farm activity. The
hut is large, divided into three parts - the family living and sleeping
quarters and cattle stalls. Married sons live in a separate hut. The
coffee plot lies in a band around the rear of the hut and typically con-
tains 20-200 trees, with higher numbers where the tenancy is on a cash
rent basis. Outside and around the coffee lies a wider belt of ensete,
while in front of the hut is a small plot of permanent pasture on which
livestock are tethered. There is usually a small plot of sweet potatoes,
chillies, vegetables and perhaps ginger, tobacco or other minor cash crops.
21.       While the land use pattern for the area as a whole shows a
modest percentage of cropped land (see Table 1), the typical small land-
owner or tenant devotes practically all of his land to arable crops.
About 75-80% is devoted to subsistence crops (ensete, maize, sweet pota-
toes) on such holdings. Intercropping and double cropping are common;
the preparation mission estimated the cropping intensity at over 1.5.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
22.       Wheat and teff are mainly grown on higher parts of the plateaux,
especially in Sodo, but even at lower altitudes most farmers grow a tiny
(300 m2) plot of teff. About 60% of farmers in Sodo, and 15% in Boloso,
grow wheat but the bulk of production comes from the larger fields of
major landlords: the survey noted plots as large as 2.5 ha of wheat and
reported one of 18 ha of teff.
23.       Oriental tobacco was introduced into the area in 1966 by the
Imperial Tobacco Monopoly (ITM). ITM grows seedlings and issues them
free to farmers, along with the needles and twine needed for curing.
Durimn 1968, 11,000 farmers grew tobacco on small plots of from 30 to
380 in . The typical farmer produced 30 kg of leaf. Curing standards are
very primitive, the strings of leaf being hung on the outside of huts,
unprotected from rain and sun.
Livestock
24.       Livestock play an important role in the farming system, but
there is virtually no common grazing land. Farmers must set aside land
for pasture, rent grazing, buy in feed for tethered animals, or drive them
to the lower altitude savanna to graze - an unpopular alternative which
may be unavoidable during the main cropping season when fields are occu-
pied by crops.
25.       The preparation mission survey found that the overall average
for the area was 1.2 oxen, 2.5 cows, 1.8 calves, 1.0 goats and/or sheep
and 0.25 horses and/or mules per family, equivalent to 4.5 livestock units
per farm. As might be expected, however, there was a correlation between
livestock numbers and holding size. The biggest herds (excluding those
kept exclusively outside the project area) were 15 head. About 30% of
farmers had no cattle at all and a further 28% had only one ox or cow.
Over 40% hire or borrow oxen for ploughing. Some 75% buy supplementary
hay and/or rent pasture from the fortunate 15% who have a surplus.
26.       Every farmer interviewed during the survey kept his livestock
in the family hut at night as a precaution against crop damage and disease
and as a convenient way of obtaining the maximum amount of manure for use
on the homestead crops.
27.       Livestock make an important contribution to cash incomes.  An
old ox or dry cow sells for about E$100-120 in Soddu market. Farmers with
cattle reported sales of E$20 to E$195 (average E$75) per year to the
preparation mission survey. About 70% of sales were beef; 30%, ghee.
Slaughtering is officially restricted to licensed slaughter blocks. An
abattoir, built by a local company (capital E$60,000) with help from an
FAO adviser, has recently been built in Soddu. It has a capacity of 50
head per day, although the throughput is now only 35 per week.  Hides are
carefully sun-dried and offals that pass a veterinary inspection are sold.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
B. THE SAVANNA
28.       The savanna lies in an arc around the highlands, bounded by
the Rift Valley on the east; the deep and narrow Omo Gorge on the west;
and the hills of Gemu-Gofa Province to the south. It comprises about 20%
of Wolamo Awraja. Most of the zone is uninhabited but nomadic tribes
pass through, pausing to graze their cattle. The population is about 31
per km2, mainly in a few pockets. Highland cattle graze the savanna,
especially during the four months of wet weather, and the slopes of the
transition belt and the more accessible flat areas are seriously eroded.
29.       The vegetation is characterized by Combretum and Hyparrhenia,
with some Terminalia, Bauhinia and Balanites spp. Typically, it consists
of 200-700 trees per ha, with diameters ranging from 5 to 25 cm, inter-
spersed with acacia thickets.
Climate
30.       Rainfall records of rather doubtful accuracy have been kept for
three seasons at Abela. In 1966 and 1968 the total rainfall was about
785 mm; in 1967, 990 mm. Rain gauges have been installed at Bale and
Offa, but inspection of the sites and records showed that the data were
unreliable. From the Abela records and conversations with local resi-
dents, the appraisal mission concluded that the average rainfall was about
800 mm but that distribution was unreliable. The second peak, in July-
August, is apparently low in one in three years. In such years, yields
of maize are near normal but those of cotton and chillies reduced.
Droughts affecting all crops occur about once in five years.
31.       No temperature records are available.  Daytime temperatures are
probably lower than the 400C which would be obtained by adding the
normal rate (100C per 1,000 m) to   highland records.  Night temperatures
are probably similar to, or higher than, those of the highlands, the
drainage of cold air from the highlands being partially offset by com-
pression effects.
32.       With proper husbandry methods, the climate is suitable for
maize, cotton and chillies but not for coffee, wheat or barley. Allow-
ance must be made, however, for periodic reductions in yield due to poor
rainfall.
Soils
33.       The soils are grey to dark grey, with a clay content of about
60%. They are generally well drained but waterlogging occurs in patches.
In some areas there are large numbers of stones on the surface. The
soils are slightly less acidic than those in the highlands (pH 5.5).
Very few fertilizer trials have been completed, but the scanty evidence
suggests that, as in the highlands, soils are deficient in nitrogen and
phosphate but contain adequate amounts of potash. Excellent crops have
been grown under trial conditions and the soils appear to have an adequate
inherent fertility for properly controlled farming. However, the soils



ANNEX 2
Page 7
are very prone to erosion and parts of the settlement area have already
been affected by sheet and gulley erosion.  Anti-erosion measures are
essential.
Cultivations
34.       The size of the arable area - 3.0 ha - on each holding will
rule out reliance on hand hoes for primary cultivations. The virgin
soils are very difficult to cultivate, but they become more easily worked
with continued cultivation. For this reason, and to enable settlers to
plant an adequate area in their first season, the project wsould include
sufficient tractors and implements to cultivate 2 ha for each new settler.
Ox-drawn implements are adequate once this initial ploughing has been
done but the typical local wooden plough appears to form a hard layer
(plough-pan) which hinders root penetration. The tractors would there-
fore be retained after settlement was complete and settlers would be able
to hire them to plough up grazing land or, occasionally, to break up the
plough-pan.
Existing Settlements
35.       Until the advent of effective and convenient prophylactic drugs,
the presence of, or fear of, malaria inhibited permanent settlement in
the savanna. A contributing factor, which may cause some problems to
project management, was probably the highlander's strong preference for
his traditional homeland, social circle, and well-known crops.
36.       The first settlement of 28 families was started at Abela nearly
ten years ago, with assistance from Israel, but never flourished. The
main part of the present Abela settlement, which contains 590 families,
is the result of a program started in 1966 by the Sub-Governor.  Initially,
settlers were given only 2 ha, but most of these early plots have been
reorganized to provide 5 ha holdings. About 5% of the settlers have left
or been evicted. A central workshop, which services all of the Awraja's
equipment; a school; a clinic; and a community center with a cooperative
shop have been built. Peace Corps volunteers help to run the settlement.
The Abela settlement is a pioneering effort and many of its difficulties
arise from too rapid expansion with inadequate staff. Considering these
difficulties, the scheme has made a remarkable start.  What is now needed
is a period of consolidation and no new settlers would be brought in
until the beginning of Year 3 of the project.
37.       The second settlement, opened at Bale near the Omo River in
1967, now contains 110 settlers. The site is remote and no agricultural
staff have been posted permanently at the settlement, which is looked
after by an assistant governor. An administrative center and a market
have been built, and a school is under construction, but settlers devote
much time to carrying water from the bottom of deep gorges. Bale settle-
ment has not been as successful as Abela and requires complete reorganiza-
tion. The project would include provision for improving the long access
road, especially where it drops over the escarpment; provision of water



ANNEX 2
Page 8
supplies on the ridges; and agricultural staff. No new settlers would
be brought in until the beginning of Year 4.
Land Tenure and Settler Selection
38.       All land in the settlement areas belongs to Government.  In
order to allow the project staff full scope in reorganization, no titles
have been issued to existing settlers.  However, it is Government's
intention that full titles to private ownership will be issued to all
settlers after a probationary period of four years.
39.       Settlers would be selected by a subcommittee of the Wolamo
Development Committee. They would be drawn from the highland project
area in Sodo and Boloso Woredas (60%); other parts of the Wolamo Awraja
(15%); and other parts of Ethiopia (25%). Settlers must be between 16
and 45 years old and physically fit. They would be required to live on
their holdings and to give up all claims to other land. They would be
required to pay a development cess of E$58 (US$23) for 20 years, and to
repay loans, and would pledge the titles to their lands as security so
long as there are any outstanding debts. The titles would contain
specific provisions requiring maintenance of soil conservation works and
prohibiting subdivision of holdings.
Labor
40.       Availability of labor would be a crucial problem on settlement
farms and, during the probationary period, settlers would be required to
adopt a cropping pattern that ensures the best possible balance between
family and hired labor. The specific pattern proposed would require the
farmer and his family to contribute the equivalent of 25 man days per
month. However, he would need to hire the equivalent of 80 man days
during the months of November through February for picking chillies and
for harvesting and uprooting cotton. This is the equivalent of one
laborer per holding. It is considered that, after an initial period
during which project staff would have to play an active role in labor
recruitment, the labor needs of settlers would be met by landless labor-
ers in the highlands and, particularly, from Soddu town.
Cropping Pattern
41.       The main crops in the settlement area would be maize for sub-
sistence, and cotton and chillies for sale. Settlers now endeavor to
grow the maximum area of cotton and chillies but there is a conflicting
labor demand, especially at planting time in May-June when the highland
farms compete strongly for available hired labor. Because of this con-
flict, both cotton and chillies are usually planted late and badly, with
consequent loss of yield. At the present time, the return from the two
crops is comparable. Therefore, until experience dictates otherwise,
the cropping agreement with settlers would restrict the area of chillies
because:



ANNEX 2
Page 9
(a) the demand for cotton is greater and more assured than
that for chillies; and
(b) chilli seedlings are raised in nurseries and transplanted
into the field. It would therefore be simple for project
staff to control the area cropped.
42.       The cropping pattern for the settlement holding would be maize,
1.8 ha; cotton, 1.0 ha; and chillies, 0.2 ha. Two hectares would be left
to provide grazing, and the remaining 1 ha taken up by waterways which
would provide permanent grazing for livestock.
Ginneries
43.       There is no cotton ginnery in Wolamo.  Most of the local pro-
duction is sold, as seed cotton, in the local markets to the cottage
industry. Seed cotton grown on commercial concessions in the Belata
Valley is trucked to ginneries near Addis Ababa. However, one conces-
sionary plans to build a ginnery, perhaps within two years, in the Valley
which would be within easy reach of Abela settlement.
C. CROP IMPROVEMENT METHODS
44.       There is no agricultural research station in or near the proj-
ect area, but a limited number of field trials have been carried out
locally over the last two years. Improvement techniques must therefore
be partially based on results obtained elsewhere in Ethiopia, especially
the old-established Kulumsa station (now part of the Chilalo Agricultural
Development Unit) and from other countries with similar ecological con-
ditions, notably nearby Kenya.
Maize
45.       The local maize varieties give an overall average yield of
800 kg per ha (720 lb per ac) in the highlands but 1,200 kg per ha
(1,080 lb per ac) in the more suitable conditions of the settlement.
Farmers would be taught the benefits of early planting; of row-planting
and weeding; and of synthetic varieties, for which seed would be imported
from Kenya. A farmer who faithfully adopted all these measures could
expect to raise his yields by 70%. In the settlements, with some degree
of coercion from project staff, it is believed that all farmers would
use the improved seed and 70% would adopt the other measures. Allowing
for a poor crop every fifth year, this would raise the overall yield to
about 1,800 kg per ha (1,620 lb per ac). In the highlands it is hoped
that, after five years, 90% would use new seed, 80% would accept about
two-thirds of other improvements, and only 10% would reject all advice.
This would raise the overall yield to about 1,300 kg per ha (1,170 lb
per ac).



ANNEX 2
Page 10
46.       The small number of trials conducted to date has shown that
yield increases do not cover the cost of applying nitrogenous and/or
phosphatic fertilizer to maize. Experiments would continue in both
highlands and settlements, but no provision is made in the project for
supplying fertilizer, on credit, for maize.
E2heat
47.       Wheat is grown only in the highlands.  "Rust" disease is an
ever present threat. Farmers use local seed, which is a mixture of many
types and includes some resistant to the various strains of rust. This
helps to prevent catastrophic losses, but the average yield is only about
900 kg per ha (810 lb per ac). Variety trials have shown that local
selections can increase yields significantly, but introduction of new
seed would proceed very cautiously because of the rust problem.
48.       Wheat has responded well to fertilizer in 24 trials on farmers'
land in the project area. While dressings of nitrogen and phosphate
combined give the greatest yield increase, phosphate alone gives the
highest profit. Applications of 100 kg per ha of triple superphosphate
(46% P205) give an increase of 400 kg grain per ha. Superphosphate
would be available on credit and it is believed that, by Year 5, 80% of
wheat growers would use fertilizers and obtain 75% of the experimental
increase. This would raise the overall yield to 1,140 kg per ha (1,026
lb per ac).
49.       Primitive methods of harvesting and storing wheat lead to
excessive losses. Improved techniques would raise the effective yield
to about 1,200 kg per ha (1,080 lb per ac).
Teff
50.       In crop cutting trials, the yield of teff is about 690 kg per
ha (620 lb per ac), but normal handling and threshing losses are very
high and the effective yield under farm conditions is unlikely to exceed
550 kg per ha (495 lb per ac). New, improved strains have been selected
at Kulumsa and seed would be provided in the project. Teff has given
profitable responses to both nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer in 38
trials on farmers' land in the project area. Only phosphatic fertilizer
would be made available on credit, since nitrogen causes lodging and
staining of grain. The application rate is the same as for wheat -
simplifying extension work - and the yield increase is about the same,
400 kg per ha. Using the same assumptions as for wheat, the overall
average yield would be increased to 850 kg per ha.
Cotton
51.       Yields in the project area are very variable due to poor hus-
bandry and seasonal effects. During 1968, when the rainfall pattern was
unfavorable to cotton, the appraisal mission found that yields varied
from nil to 675 kg seed cotton per ha and estimated that the overall



ANNEX 2
Page 11
five-year average could be little more than 140 kg per ha (126 lb per
ac). It was very apparent that the two key factors were timely planting
and correct spacing. Attention to these factors alone could assure the
best farmers of yields of 670 kg per ha (600 lb per ac). New varieties,
better weeding, and efficient picking could raise yields further. How-
ever, cotton is an unfamiliar crop and the project estimates assume
that each group of settlers would obtain only 140 kg per ha in the first
year, rising to 540 kg per ha (485 lb per ac) by the fifth.
52.       The cotton variety grown throughout Ethiopia, Acala 1517C, has
a staple length of 1-1/16 in, which is suitable for local needs, but is
not resistant to Black Arm disease. Variety trials are being conducted
in the project area, and it is expected that a new variety will be
introduced during the project period.
53.       Cotton crops in the two existing settlements are attacked by
stainers and bollworms, but pest infestations have not yet reached
critical levels. It seems inevitable that they will do so as time passes
and area under cotton increases. The project would provide medium-term
credit for knapsack sprayers and seasonal credit for insecticides. Farm
budgets assume that seven to nine sprayings (four of DDT, two to three
of Sevin and one to two of Rogor) would be required. The annual cost of
insecticides would be E$h2 (US$17) per ha. However, no yield increases
are imputed to spraying per se; rather, it is considered to be essential
to permit other measures to increase yields.
Chillies
54.       During 1968, chilli crops were even more variable than cotton.
Late planting, careless transplanting and incorrect spacing seriously
reduced yields. In addition, for the first time since the settlements
were established, about half of the mature pods were completely destroyed
by an insect pest. The overall average yield of marketable pods was
only about 100 kg per ha (90 lb per ac).
55.       WTith the reduction in area under project cropping plans, set-
tlers would be able to pay more attention to good husbandry. New, higher-
yielding varieties are already available. Control of pod damage by up
to five sprayings of DDT (E$7) would immediately double marketable yields.
With these measures the best farmers should easily obtain yields of over
700 kg per ha (630 lb per ac), and the overall average would be 500 kg
per ha (420 lb per ac).
Coffee
56.       Almost half of the coffee grown in Ethiopia (160,000 m tons in
1968) is consumed locally. The International Coffee Organization quota
is almost 80,000 tons and Ethiopia does not, at present, suffer serious
problems from overproduction. However, arabica coffee is indigenous to
the southwestern part of the massif and the potential production is very
large.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
57.       The main aim of the project's extension campaign would be to
improve the quality of production to enable the best use to be made of
the coffee processing centers. In particular, farmers would be encour-
aged to adopt selective picking of ripe berries instead of the present
practice of indiscriminate "stripping" of the whole branch. This, and
the pruning necessary to permit it, will tend to increase yields,
possibly by as much as 30%. Such an increase from the project area will
be insignificant in relation to national production but the implication
of widespread adoption of improved practices requires further study.
Tobacco
58.       While ITM is obliged to purchase all oriental tobacco produced
in Ethiopia, it is facing serious problems of overproduction. Cigarette
consumption is increasing at 15% per annum but there is a marked switch
to more sophisticated brands and consumption of oriental types is, at
best, stagnant. Production is currently 1.2 million kg while consumption
is not much more than 0.5 million kg. ITM is investigating market pos-
sibilities but to date very little oriental tobacco has been exported.
Moreover, even if a market is established, the project area is unable to
produce leaf of export quality: deficiencies in curing techniques could
be overcome but the soils are too fertile and produce unduly large leaves
with a high nicotine content and an atypical, metallic flavor. Virginian
and burley tobacco, which are needed to meet expanding local demand,
might well prove suitable in the settlement areas but no trials have been
made.
Beef Production
59.       The project would include the staff and equipment needed to
carry out an effective inoculation program, throughout the whole project
area, to control the four main cattle diseases: rinderpest, anthrax,
contagious bovine pleuropneumonia and blackleg. At the same time, exten-
sion workers would stress the importance of better care - especially
supplementary feeding of calves - and of balancing livestock numbers to
available feed supplies. These measures are expected to reduce calf
mortality from 50% to 25% and the mortality of mature animals from 6% to
4%. In order to avoid an increase in stocking rates, during the first
five years it will be necessary to cull an additional 7,000 animals (3%)
from the highland areas. While it will be difficult to persuade farmers
of the need to cull, the success of the existing inoculation program will
have a demonstration effect. Further, about 25% of the culled arnmals
will be required for stocking the settlements and the new abattoir will
stimulate demand for slaughter. From the sixth year onwards, the addi-
tional output from the highlands will be about 5,300 head annually.
60.       In the settlements, each holding will have a capacity of six
livestock units and, at maturity, the annual output will be 1.3 units per
holding, or about 1,350 head in total.



ANEX 2
Page 13
Dairy Production
61.       The genetic constitution of local Wolamo cattle is low and
selection for milk-yielding capacity is not worthwhile. The project will
introduce grade (local x exotic) stock and provide an artificial insem-
ination service. About 540 half-bred, in-calf heifers will be sold on
credit to selected farmers. It is anticipated that these cows and their
progeny will yield 900 liters per annum more than the local animals they
replace. About half of the milk will be sold locally, the rest converted
into ghee.
D. CHILALO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT
The CADU Project Area
62.       The Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit (CADU) is situated
on the eastern escarpment of the Rift Valley in Arusi Province. The
project area is nearly 100 km long, stretching from Shashemenne to Nazreth,
and about 40 km wide. However, in the early years work will be concen-
trated around the project headquarters at the provincial capital, Asela
(Map 1).
63.       In general, the terrain of the CADU area is steeper than that
of WADU although in the extreme north there are wide, rolling plateaux
(altitude - 2,200 m) which are used for mechanized wheat farming. The
amount and distribution of rainfall are very similar to those at Wolamo.
The soils have a similar nutrient status but tend to be heavier; drainage
of waterlogged soils is a significant problem in several parts of the
CADU area.
64.       Compared to Wolamo, which has been a populous center for gener-
ations, the 5hilalo area could be classed as a "recent" settlement. This
is reflected in the physical features of the area, e.g. some of the
original forest trees remain; the valleys are still protected by natural
vegetation; erosion is not severe and occurs mainly near recent works,
such as roads. The population is heterogeneous, including members of
three main, and several minor, tribes some of whom prefer to live in
distinct villages and others in scattered homesteads. There are few roads
and some holdings are as much as 6 km from the nearest defined track.
65.       In the first phase of the project, extension work is to be con-
fined to the Chilalo Awraja in the northern part of the area. Holdings
are very large compared to those in Wolamo Awraja, ranging from 0.5 ha to
105 ha. Neither coffee nor tobacco is grown and a survey revealed that
the average cropping pattern was:



ANNEX 2
Page 14
Ha per Holding
Wheat                         0.7 to 1.141"
Barley                            1.5
Maize                         0.0 to 0.7i/
Teff                              0.7
Flax, pulses, vege-
tables, hops                    2.1
5.7
1/ depending on altitude
66.       Livestock are more common in Chilalo than in Wolamo.  In one
part of the survey area, 97% of farmers owned working oxen and over the
whole area there was an average of 4.9 cattle per holding. One of the
first programs undertaken by CADU was a network of milk-collecting
stations along the Nazreth-Asela road.
67.       The Ministry of Agriculture's research and seed multiplication
farm at Kulumsa, near Asela, has been taken over by CADU.
The CADU Project
68.       The Chilalo feasibility study was prepared after two years of
study by a Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) team,
whose leader is now the Executive Director of CADU. CADU was established
by an agreement between SIDA and IEG in September 1967. Each party pro-
vides staff and certain agreed facilities in kind; the other "joint"
expenses are shared in the ratio SIDA 67: IEG 33.
69.       During 1968/69 the estimated senior staff requirement is
Swedish - 29 man years in 33 posts; Ethiopian - 41 man years in 42 posts.
The main contribution to be made in kind by IEG is the provision of
secondary roads in the project area (E$700,000). Apart from providing
Swedish staff employed in the project, SIDA pays for their accommodation
in Addis Ababa, for specialist consultants and services, and for over-
seas training of Ethiopian staff (totalling E$316,000). CADU's total
budget for 1968/69 is E$6.04 million or almost twice the estimated cost
in the corresponding year of the WADU project.
70.       There are many similarities in the organization and methods
adopted for CADU and those proposed for WADU. The significant differen-
ces are due to four main factors:
(a) the higher ratio of expatriate to Ethiopian staff
in CADU;
(b) the emphasis placed by CADU on socio-economic surveys
and the provision made for preparation of feasibility
studies not directly concerned with the project;



ANNEX 2
Page 15
(c) the use of force account labor, under the supervision of
building consultants employed by SIDA, for all CADU
buildings; and
(d)  differences in the agricultural patterns and market
possibilities in the two projects.
Progress by CADU
71.       At the time of the visit of the Bank appraisal mission, CADU
had been fully operational for less than one crop year. The large head-
quarters complex had not been completed and the 33 Swedish staff were
still being transported from Addis Ababa on Mondays, returning to their
homes on Fridays.
72.       Some market centers and milk collecting points had been built
and were operating satisfactorily. The first cooperative societies were
to be formed in January 1969, the membership being drawn from farmers
using the markets. Only 189 loans, averaging E$70, had been made to
farmers but the first repayments were not due until March 1969. However,
CADU staff were very pleased with the first experience of marketing and
credit and were optimistic that cooperatives could take over operations
before the fifth year. The response to extension work on fertilizers
had been most encouraging and the farm machinery pool (10 tractors, two
combines, three threshers) based on Kulumsa had proved popular with
wheat farmers. Surveys had been made before the project started to
establish a base for evaluation of CADU.






AN1'EX 2
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
WOLLAD AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POPULATION, HOLDINGS AND LAND USE IN PROJECT AREA
Boloso       Sodo       Total
Population and Holdings
Area (ha)                          42,300      34,300      76,600
Population                        139,000      97,000    236,000
No. of farms                       27,000      20,000      47,000
Total size of farm (avg, ha)        1.6         1.7         1.6
Annual crops per farm (avg, ha)    0.42         0.25        0.35
Livestock per farm (avg)            4.6         5.2         4.9
---------- -%of area --
Land Use
Field crops                          25          12          19
Homesteads: crops                     3           3           3
grazing                  8            4          6
Pasture and fallow                               55          3
=Cg         -77          71
Grazing: bush                        12           3           8
swamp                        4           0          2
Forest and woodlots                   4           9           6
Wasteland                            12          14          13
32         -27          29
100         100        100






ANNEX 3
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARKETIN3, CREDIT AND RECOVERY OF COSTS
1.        The village market is an important social institution and is
held on two or three days per week. About 10-15% of transactions are by
barter, the remainder for cash or credit. Rural indebtedness is high.
The preparation mission found that 50% of farmers borrow up to E$30 per
annum and a further 25% borrow even rpre. The more affluent members of
society belong to "Okob" societies,!. but most farmers borrow from money-
lenders at exorbitant interest or sell their crops forward to small
traders at huge discounts. "Okob" drawings are sometimes used to purchase
cattle but most credit is used for consumption and social purposes.
2.        The Awraja authorities have compelled large merchants to install
modern weighing machines, even though they are unable to inspect and
calibrate them.  In village markets, however, farmers suffer from the
complete lack of scales, and even of agreed standard weights and measures.
Each transaction is a separate bargain, with the trader inevitably holding
the strongest bargaining position. Village traders sell in turn to mer-
chants, who alone have the storage space - however primitive - necessary
to take advantage of seasonal price fluctuations. It is reasonable to
assume that this well established marketing system denies the farmer a
fair price for his produce, let alone a chance to profit from price move-
ments.
Cooperative Societies
3.        In an effort to break the vicious circle of rural indebtedness,
the Government is encouraging the formation of multi-purpose agricultural
cooperatives, although the Third Five-Year Development Plan takes a
realistic view of the mapagement and other problems to be faced. The laws
regulating cooperatives.-2, are comprehensive, and the Ministry of National
Community Development and Social Affairs has issued an excellent manual
covering all aspects of the promotion, organization and management of
societies. There are at present some 50 multi-purpose societies. After
a disastrous failure of one society which attempted to market cereals,
all restrict their activities to coffee. They receive various kinds of
official help, e.g. Government pays 100% of the manager's salary in the
first two years; 75% in the third; and 50% and 25% in the fourth and fifth
years respectively (only two societies have reached the stage of paying
the full salary).  Cooperatives, with Government backing, have no diffi-
culty in obtaining bank loans, at 9% interest, to finance coffee marketing
1/ "Okob" societies are traditional saving groups or "boot clubs".
Members contribute weekly or monthly sums and the total con-
tributed is allotted to one member, chosen, in turn, by lot.
2/ Cooperative Societies Proclamations, 1966 and 1968.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
operations. Experience to date has shown that cooperatives have been
able to improve the farmer's return by E$5 per 17 kg, or over 20%, by a
combination of improved processing and fair marketing.
4.        A cooperative society has recently been formed at Areka, in
the project area. It is primarily a savings and loan society with 320
members, but the management cultivates 1.5 ha of tobacco to raise funds
to supplement its E$300 share capital.
A. CREDIT AND MARKETING IN MiE PROJECT
5.        The project will build five simple marketing centers, three in
the highlands and two in settlements. Each market will be equipped with
modern, direct-reading scales and a small store/office. The markets will
purchase crops, at any time of the year, at clearly displayed prices
related to the current market rate. The necessary working capital,
estimated at E$567,000 for one to three months, will be borrowed from the
Commercial Bank of Ethiopia at 9% interest.
6.        The markets will be the local centers for credit. Most items -
improved seed, fertilizer, insecticide, sacks, cattle - will be issued
in kind, but cash loans will be made, in the settlements only, for hiring
labor. Seasonal loans will be repaid at harvest time with interest
equivalent to an annual rate of 12%. The interest rate on medium-term
loans, for cattle, etc., will be 8% per annum.
7.        A controller, working through two supervisors (see Fig. 1), will
be responsible for marketing and credit operations. During the first few
years, each market will be operated by an agent. In keeping with Gov-
ernment policy, however, primary cooperative societies will be formed at,
and will eventually take over, each market. It will not be essential for
a farmer to join the cooperative to use the market, since the legislation
makes provision for "associates" to use a society's facilities without
becoming a subscribing, voting member. When the primary societies are
firmly established, a cooperative union would be formed to take over the
central organization.
8.        In the early years of the project, the local Field Agent will
be the main contact between the project and local communities. He will
receive applications for credit and forward them for approval by Credit
Supervisors. When the primary societies are formed, a subcommittee of
members will advise the agent and later take over full respansibility for
approving loans.



AN NE X 3
Page 3
B. RECOVERY OF PROJECT COSTS
9.        In order to accustom farmers to the idea that they must pay
far the facilities provided, the recurrent costs of the markets will be
recovered from the start of the project. The project submission pro-
poses that this should be done through the medium of a "market due"
estimated at E$30 per farmer per annum. While the same object could be
achieved by a general deduction from crop proceeds, there is merit in
an identifiable payment; however, the Association should accept either
method. So long as marketing remains under the direct control of
project staff, these dues would be paid to Government. Thereafter,
they would accrue, in shares to be decided in the light of experience,
to the primary societies and union.
10.       While the credit organization remained under the direct control
of staff, farmers' total loan repayments would be credited to a revolving
fund. IEG has agreed that this fund will be used only for providing
farm credit. The permanent sources of agricultural credit in the area
when disbursements from the Development Credit cease would be:
(a)  seasonal loans from primary societies.  The Cooperative
Proclamation and Regulation prescribe that loans shall
be made only to members and that the maximum permis-
sible rate is 12% per annum. Primary societies will
normally finance seasonal loans by borrowing from com-
mercial banks at 9%, allowing 3% as a handling charge
and to cover bad debts;
(b) medium-term loans from the cooperative union. The
Development Bank of Ethiopia already makes advances,
at 7%, for this purpose and the union would on-lend at
8%, retaining 1% for handling charges and bad debts.
11.       Settlers would repay to Government the direct cost of develop-
ing their holdings. These costs are estimated at:
Per Holding
Clearing                   165             (66)
Roads                      115             (46)
Conservation               230             (92)
Initial cultivations       10              (42)
Total                   614            (246)
Repayments would be by a development cess payable in yearly installments,
at harvest, over 20 years following three years' moratorium. The cess,
E$58 (US$23) per year, would include interest at 7%. It would be col-
lected by the Awraja authorities and transmitted to Government. The
estimated annual revenue is shown in Table 1.






ANNEX 3
Teble 1
3THIOPIA
WOLAM0 AGRICULTURAL DVEELOPNENT PROJECT
DE-ELOPMENT CESS AND IMARKET FEES
Year       Development Cess               Market Fees                Tota!
Settlement       Highlands
-- ------ EA000-------------------------
2
z    __                    ~~              ~~      ~~6 24  30
4              --                    12               72             8L
5              --                    13              120            13I
6              29                    13              144            186
7              61                     6               72            13?
8              61                    1/               24             85
9              61                                     1/             61
10              61                                                    61
11              61                                                    61
12              61                                                    61
13              61                                                    61
14             61                                                    61
15             61                                                    61
16              61                                                    61
17              61                                                    61
18              61                                                    61
19              61                                                    61
20              61                                                    61
21              61                                                    61
22              61                                                    61
23              61                                                    61
24              61                                                    61
25              61                                                    61
1,188                    5o             456           1,694
1/  The market fee would be collected at individual markets until they i-rerc taken
over by cooperatives.






ANEX 4
ETHIOPIA
WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
Number    Foreign Cost
(E*> Iooo-)
Transport
4-wheel drive (PU)              24            168
4-wheel drive (light)            1              6
Car                              2             12
Minibus                          3             17
Mules                           75
203
Tractors and Equipment
Tracklaying tractor
(about 150 dbhp)               2           282
Motor grader                     2            122
Dump truck (5-ton)               1             30
IWheel tractor                                   1/
(about 50 dbhp)               11           143-
Disc plow (3F)                   7             10
Disc harrow (HD)                 7             32
Fuel trailer                     1              5
Workshop trailer                 1             10
Caravan                          1             12
Workshop equipment              --             20
Tentage, survey, etc.           --             30
696
Other
Processing center, market
and other costs               --            82
Sprayers, implements            --            185
267
1/ Tractors of this type are assembled in Ethiopia,
see paras 3.44 and 3.45.






ANNA 5
ETHIOPIA
WOLA M AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
----- E$ '000 --------            -------- US$ '°00 0 .-----
Local    Foreign    Total          Local    Foreign    Total
Development
Building: Housing                     800       200      1,000           320         80       400
Other                     300         75       375            120        30        150
Sub-total                       1,100       275     1,375            440       :O         550
Equipment: Vehicles                   125       200        325            50         80       130
Tractors                   -         700       700            -         280        280
Processing Center, marlets
and other costs         140         85       225             56        34         90
Sub-total                         265       985     1,250            106       394        500
Staff & Allowances                  2,820     1,880      4,700         1,128        752     1,880
Opetation & Maintenance:
Vehicles                   380       240       620            152        96        248
Tractors                   525       370       895            210      :148        358
Buildings                 185         80       265             74        32        106
Roads                       40        20        60             16         8         24
Other                     945        105     1,050            378        42        420
Sub-total                        4,895     2,695      7,590         1,958     1,078      3,036
Roads, Bridges, Water                 130       200        330            52         80       132
Sub-total                          130       200       330             52         80       132
Contingency                             640       415     1,055            256        1.66      422
Farm Credit Inputs
Implements, etc.                       10       185       195              4         74        78
Fertilizer & Insecticide              -         460        460           -          184       184
Sub-total                           10       645       655              4       258        262
Other Costs
Aerial Photography                    -         260        260           -          1.04      -
Settlers' Subsistence                 125       -          125            50        -_         50
Sub-total                          125       260       385             50       1.04        50
TOTAL COST                       7,1651/   5,475    12,640          2,866-    2,190      5,056
1/ Includes duties totalling E$612,000 (US$245,000).






ANNEX 6
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPYENT PROJECT
STAFFING
1.        The project would be managed by a Project Director, who would
be directly responsible to the Vice-Minister of Agriculture but would
maintain a very close liaison, through the Sub-Governor, with the provin-
cial and Awraja authorities.
2.        The organization of the project, and the functions of the var-
ious sections, are shown diagrammatically in Figure 1. At the management
and higher executive levels, the organization is similar to that of the
Chilalo Agricultural Development Project.
3.        The staff requirements in various categories are shown in
Table 1. It is considered unlikely that suitable Ethiopian staff will be
available for all of the eleven key posts. The appropriate qualifications
for these posts are summarized below.
Project Director. The Director should have long exper-
ience, preferably in Africa, of practical farming and at
least five years in a post involving supervision and
administration of a large number of trained agricultural
field staff, preferably in a development project.
Deputy Project Director. The Deputy would be an Ethiop-
ian, with a degree in general agriculture and at least
five years' field experience.
Section Chiefs. It is desirable that the five Section
Chiefs should have professional qualifications in their
particular subjects and essential that they should have
at least ten years' experience.
The Chief, Personnel, should have long exper-
ience in the recruiting and management of staff.
The Chief, Finance, should be an accountant,
with experience in a senior government executive post,
preferably in the Ministry of Finance.
The Chief, Development, should be a general
agriculturalist who has successfully held responsible
position on a large farm or agricultural project, pre-
ferably in Africa. He should have some experience of
land planning and settlement.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
The Chief, Marketing, Credit and Cooperatives,
should have practical experience of marketing and credit
operations in peasant agriculture. A knowledge of
accounting procedures and banking would be desirable.
The Chief, Training and Trials,should have
experience in agronomic research, including at least
five years in charge of a research farm or similar
institution. Experience in agricultural training would
be desirable.
Extension Officer and Settlement Officer. It is desirable
that these officers should have a degree, or at least a
diploma, in general agriculture. However, the essential
qualification is long experience, including a period of
supervision of other professional staff, in appropriate
development schemes.
Planning Officer and Engineer. There are no professional
qualifications specific to these posts. The Planning
Officer could be an agricultural or natural science
graduate with five years' experience of land planning in
Africa; however, an unqualified man with ten years'
planning experience on a successful project would be
equally acceptable. The Engineer could have a degree or
diploma in agricultural engineering but the essential
qualification would be ten years' practical experience of,
including a period in charge of, for example, a soil
conservation unit.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
WOLAM) AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT MANPOWER REQUIREMENT
Year    1       2      3             5       6
Professional Staff
Key posts                3     11     11      11      8      4
Other                    1      8      8       8      8      8
Adm;inistrative Staff
Superintendents          -      1       2      2      2       2
Accounts staff           -     11     13      14     14      14
Clerks, typists,
etc.                   1     25     31      31     31     31
Field Staff
Agricultural Agents
and Supervisors       1      33     62     64      64     64
Workshop Foremen,
Mechanics and
Operators              -      7      7       7      4      4
Demonstrators and
Inoculators            -     76    168    140      28      8
Other                    8     65     77      77     68     65
Total                     14    237    379    354    227    199






ANI1EX 7
ETHIOPIA
WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SETTLEMENT FARM BUDGET AT MATURITY
E$
I.   REVENUES
A. Crop Production
Maize                          388.8
Chillies                        72.0
Cotton                         313.5
77473
LESS:   Subsistence consumption        120.0
'654.-3
B. Livestock Production
1-1/3 head beef                146.3
TOTAL CROP AND LIVESTOCK SAIES         800.6
II.   OUTLAYS
A. Farm Inputs
Seed                            17.9
Insecticides                    49.0
Livestock expenses              18.2
Hired labor                     72.0
Other                           10.0
167.1
B. Other Charges
Market dues                     30.0
Development cess                58.o
Loan repayments                 90.0
Interest on seasonal loan        8.o
186.0
Depreciation on sprayer         14.0
200.0
TOTAL OUTLAYS                          167._
III.  FARM INCOME                                433.5
(I less II)                                (US$173.4)






ANNEX 8
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC BENEFITS
1.        The economic rate of return for the project as a whole is 13%
(Table 1). This is obtained from the discounted flow of costs and bene-
fits over a period of 20 years in both the highlands and settlement areas.
The assumptions on which these costs and benefits have been quantified
are outlined below.
Benefits
2.        Only the direct benefits in the form of additional crop and
livestock production have been included in the rate of return calculation.
The valuations of these outputs are based on the price assumptions out-
lined in Chapter VI. Where the outputs are largely for domestic consump-
tion, as is the case with cereals, the prices are farmgate prices at
harvest time. These are substantially lower than year-round market prices
but are much more stable over the years. High market prices to the con-
sumer reflect transport difficulties and, more importantly, monopoly
situations for traders. Where the outputs are directed at export markets
or import substitution, as with coffee, chilUies and cotton, the prices
used in evaluation are those comparable to world price levels and expected
trends. In the case of coffee, increased production (30%) is not con-
sidered to be an economic benefit since Ethiopia is already producing
sufficient for her own needs and her ICO export quota. Therefore, the
economic benefit is taken as the value added by wet processing, measured
by the world price differential between unwashed coffee and washed coffee
fob after deducting transport and handling costs to the exporter, i.e.
E$630 per ton of washed coffee.
3.        The existing production of the 700 farmers already settled in
Abela and Bale has not been included in assessing the benefits. In the
absence of detailed information, present production has been estimated
on the basis of the present yield estimates given in para 5.02. These
estimates probably overestimate the present production at Bale and the
benefits from additional production are thus correspondingly underesti-
mated.
4.        Table 2 gives a breakdown of the value of production at maturity
(Year 9) in the two areas.
Costs
5.        All project costs have been included, net of taxes and duties.
No residual value has been applied to project houses and buildings, but
the project has been credited with the residual value in Year 7 of the
mobile heavy equipment used for soil conservation and land clearing. It
is assumed that this equipment can be utilized for other development



ANNEX 8
Page 2
works in the area. All additional farm inputs are included in the cost
calculation except for labor. No cost has been imputed to additional
labor requirements in the highlands or the total farm labor input in the
settlements. This implicit zero shadow wage rate is justified because
of overpopulation and underemployment in the area. If farm labor costs
are included at the full current daily rate, the calculated rate of
return drops to 11%.
6.        Calculation of the economic rate of return on the investment
programs in the highlands and settlements taken separately depends upon
a necessarily arbitrary separation of the joint costs. The breakdown of
project costs, given in para 3.39, is based on the following assumptions:
(i)    Extension and settlement:  It is assumed that the intensity
of extension work per farmer is the same in both areas and
costs are divided according to the numbers of farmers;
(ii)   Training and trials:  As above;
(iii) Conservation, roads and land clearing: Costs are divided
according to the hourage of heavy equipment in each area;
(iv)   Marketing and co-ops:  The costs are divided in the same
proportion as the value of additional output except that
coffee processing center costs are allocated to the high-
lands only;
(v)    Credit:  The cost of farm inputs is divided according to
the proposed farm plans;
(vi)   Other:  The cost of aerial photography has been estimated
separately for each area. Subsistence applies only to
settlements. Other costs have been divided in the same
proportion (54:46) as the total of the above item.
Rate of Return
7.        This breakdown shows a proportion of 54:46 between highlands
and settlements. If the cost flow over the life of the project is allo-
cated between the two areas according to this ratio, the economic rate
of return in the highlands is 9.5% and in the settlements 17%. Although
these rates reflect some special assumptiors, they correctly point to a
greater return from the settlement areas.1! The settlements should not,
however, be treated as independent of the highlands since their present
scale is too small to allow full utilization of overhead capital invest-
ment and management, and this scale cannot be increased owing to the
limited availability of suitable land.
1/ This assumes a zero shadow wage for farm labor in the settlements,
see para 5. If labor is charged at current peak-season rate for
hired help and at subsistence rates for the family, the rate of
return in the settlements drops to 12%.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
8.        No attempt has been made to quantify the indirect benefits of
this project. As with most agricultural projects in "near subsistence"
peasant agriculture, these may prove the most important in the long run.
Furthermore, the capital investments and institutional developments under
the project will provide a valuable infrastructure in the area. This will
considerably increase the rate of return to be expected from future in-
vestments in the area.






ETHIOPIA
WOLANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC BENEFITS
(E$'OOO0s)
Gross Value
of             Project                              Less                 Less             Net
Year         Additional Outputs   Earnings        G Gross Benefit    Project Costs L/    Farm Inputs 3/      Benefits
1                   _                _                                 310                   -               -  310
2                  154               6               160             3,980                   84              -3,904
3                  507              22               529             2o4go                  114              -2,005
4                  977              24             1,001             2,063                  147              -1,209
5                1,673              27             1,700             1,450                  150                 1oo
6                2,48h              27             2,511             1,150                  160               1,201
7                2,216             280             2,496               69h                  165               1,637
8                2,272               7             2,279               h98                  166               1,615
9                2,283               7             2,290               492                  166               1,632
10               2,282               7             2,289               492                  166               1,631
11-20            2,282               7             2,289               469                  166               1,654
Economic rate of return 13%
2/ Includes gross value of crop and livestock sales from the Project Farm and residual value in year 7 of heavy
machinery used in soil conservation and land clearing.
2/  Includes 10% contingency, but does not include costs of farm credit inputs, which are shown as farm inputs.
All costs are net of duty.
3/  Includes additional farm inputs used under the project but not additional labor since there are few, if any,
other opportunities for productive employment. If farm labor CostS are included, the rate of return is 11%.
I-Jm



ANNEX 8
Table 2
ETHIOPIA
WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GROSS VALIE OF ADDITIONAL RODUCTION AT MATURTrY
Year 9
(E$OOO's)
Highlands
Coffee                        252.0
Wheat                           2.9
Teff                           18.0
Maize                         162.0
Beef                          530.0
Dairy products                 68.4
1,9033.3
Settlements
Maize                         527.5
Chillies                      118.9
Cotton                        411.7
Beef                          192.1
1,250.2
Total                         2,283.5



ETHIOPIA: WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
MINISTERIAL COMMITTEE
PROJECT D                         lI
D           PROJECT  DIRECTOR
I   -~~~~~I'
DPTY PROJECT DIRECTOR 
DEVELOPMNTIMPROEMENTSIEVELP CH eF                                                  lCHIEF, MARKETING,                                     F           CHEF A
INNAHIGHLANDSE      COEE HEVELODPME PT  |NCREDIT AND COOPERATIVES                                                               TRAINING                     D       RND TRIALSAN
AND PROCESSING                       AND LAND REFORMR                  CENERVSS                                                                  I
EXTNSHIGHLND      SETTLEMENTNDR                                              PLANNING            ENGN DE            AGRE ICULTUAFF TRAINING                                 DEMNSRATOSM     N
ADMINISTRATIVE AND              SETTLEMENT                        CATTLE INOCULATIONS                       CONSTRUCTION             PRO ECT                                  P ST
FINANCIAL SERVICES                                                   AND HUSBANDRY                         AND MAINTENANCE          STATISTICS                               CONTROL                              C)
TO ALL SECTIONS
_A.gNust 1969                                                                                                                                                                                       (2 R)I8RD -4283 R






Y y       ¼'dgwy,''I                                                                        0
Y, II YII   'Y,II 'Y'Y;  Ii'  
N'',y,'
Ydy,                          '4 
IiIZi%I:%I:tLId:.F Yd-
I-~~~~~~~~-
I...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
L .,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CI'.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






MAP 2
LEGEND
Esiotig I H1. A Ighweyo                                                                                                                                                                                                 E  T  H  I O    P I A
Proposd . H. A. ilgloy 
WEsisng A loro odriretrio- o                                   T-w  Fji                                                        KEMBATA   AWRAJA                                         WOLAMO   AGRICULTURAL   DEVELOPMENT   PROJECT
==nImproemeor ollow-d hor in project resl5 t s                                                                        iX  lK  <e  /  .    .DIAGRAM    OF  PROJECT  AREA
Proposed Highlos fsd     lmpe9s  rods\
- - r-y r   Highlod onoLsd ones                                                                                                          -      ----  --    .
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 
.. --- Wolomo Awrsjo boundgye....... *9                                                                       \%Ji<ee                 Wow         s  Adrs -   -------
®M   Eretsno nonloer                        {A ekt                                                                                                            / ,        rero                           gi-
OM
MOUNTAINOUNTAIN                                         0                                                    /                                       // t.. Below los
5    g   ?                                 °                4     )                \   i        .     r  _   _   _,                                                  \    _        0 X       X    ,~~~~~~~~~Sr  -
3tl   1 (  /    - MCUpreen  Ne                                                                                               Bor P                                                                         "  __  T0|m... C  
i                                         //;          4          /          Humb4j)   \            \                                                               -|           !}j     4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~//ql
iL                          GGS DEToLG0   SQH                                                                                                                                                                                            r      lj:SR
I                                 _                                                                                              ==  == /  2.,
NOGORA                 .-                                   , 
G E M U  G O  F A   PROVINCEEIr



