CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 169 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Wolamo Agricultural Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 26, 1969


﻿7ONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 169 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Wolamo Agricultural Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 26, 1969


﻿Drurlopmut TIrrbit Agrmut
AGREEMENT, dated November 26, 1969, between the
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Ap-
plicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Associa-
tion being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "WADU" means the Wolamo Agricultural Develop-
ment Unit, a separate entity within the Ministry of
Agriculture of the Borrower referred to in Section
4.02 of this Development Credit Agreement.
(b) "Project Area" means an area comprising the
Woredas of Sodo and Bolosso in the Wolamo Awraja
of the Sidamo Province of the Borrower and the
settlement areas of Abela and Bale.
(c) "Project Period" means a period commencing on the
date of effectiveness of this Development Credit
Agreement and ending on a date six years thereafter.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred
thousand dollars ($3,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from
time to time pursuant to t'(e provisions of such Schedule or
by further agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, as shall be required to
meet payments to be made) for goods or services
included in Category I of the allocation of the piro-
ceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; and
(ii) the equivalent of seventy per cent (70%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, as shall be required to meet pay-
ments to be made) for goods or services included in


﻿Jr
5
Category II of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreewent;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of such payments for goods or services included
in Category II, the Association may by notice to the Bor-
rower adjust the stated percentage applicable to such
Category as required in order that withdrawals of the
amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and
not withdrawn may continue pro rata with the payments
remaining to be made for goods or services inclurled in
such Category.
SECTION 2.04. (a) No withdrawals from the Credit Ac-
count shall be made under Category I of the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of
this Development Credit Agreement oin account of pay-
ments in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods pro-
duced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the
Borrower, except that this Section 2.04(a) shall not apply
to withdrawals on account of payments in the currency of
the Borrower for tractors assembled within its territories.
(b) No withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be
made on account of payments for taxes imposed by the
Borrower or any of its political subdivisions on, or in con-
nection with the importation or supply of, goods or services
included in Category I of the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the Ulited States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one


﻿6
per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and
December 15 commencing December 15, 1979 and ending
June 15, 2019, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on June 15, 1989 to be one-half of one per
cent (1/, of 1%/) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1/9)
of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds
of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this
Development Credit Agreement to expenditures on the
Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Development Credit
Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, each Contract the price of which is expected to ex-
ceed the equivalent of U.S. $20,000 for (i) vehicles, tractors
and agricultural implements; and (ii) farm inputs imported
directly for the Project shall be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in February 1968 and
in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement. Any contracts for the procurement of (i)
vehicles, tractors, agricultural implements and other farm
inputs the contract price of which is not expected to exceed
the equivalent of U.S. $20,000; (ii) Project buildings; and


﻿7
(iii) Project civil works will not be subject to international
competitive bidding but will be awarded in accordance with
procedures set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Projoct to be carried out, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administra-
tive, agricultural, engineering and financial practices, and
shall make available, promptly as needed, all funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall create and maintain
within the Ministry of Agriculture the Wolamo Agricul-
tural Development Unit (WADU) to carry out the Project.
WADU shall be staffed as described in Schedule 4 to this
Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 4.03. During the Project Period, (i) prior to
hiring staff for the positions designated in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement the Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association concerning the candidates' qualifications and
experience, and (ii) the Borrower shall employ staff in the
positions of Project Director, Deputy Project Director, and
the Chiefs of the Finance Section and of the Marketing,
Credit and Cooperatives Section who are mutually accept-
able to the Borrower and the Association and upon terms
and conditions mutually acceptable to the Borrower and
the Association. The Borrower shall, in addition, in carry-
ing out the Project employ qualified and experienced staff.


﻿8
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall cause WADU to pre-
pare a plan of work in advance for each fiscal year, to be
approved by the Association. The Borrower shall open a
bank account in favor of WADU and shall make an initial
deposit which shall include (a) such funds as are necessary
to finance the approved plan of work for the remainder of
the fiscal year in which such deposit is made and (b) a
non-recurring contingency amount of seventy-five thousand
Ethiopian dollars (E $75,000). The Borrower shall there-
after pay into such account, in quarterly installments in
advance, funds adequate for the approved plan of work for
each fiscal year.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to dis-
close the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of WADU
and the administrative agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof; and
shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods, and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall furnish or cause to
be furnished to the Association, promptly upon their prep-
aration, the reports, plans, specifications, contract docu-
ments and work schedules for the Project and any material
modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shall cause all records and
accounts relevant to the Project to be audited by an inde-
pendent auditor acceptable to the Association and, unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, shall transmit to the


﻿9
Association certified copies of such accounts and a signed
copy of such auditor's report, not later than five months
after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.
SECTION 4.08. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and
the Association shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views through their representatives
with regard to the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under this Development Credit Agreement and
to any other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit, the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds, the Project, WADU and the administra-
tive agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
and operating the Project or any part thereof. On the part
of the Borrower such information shall include information
with respect to financial and economic conditions in the
territories of the Borrower and the international balance
of payments position of the Borrower.
(c) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the main-
tenance of the service thereof or the performance by the
Borrower of its obligations under this Development Credit
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-


﻿10
poses related to the Credit and to inspect any part of the
Project.
SECTION 4.09. (i) The Borrower shall establish and
maintain:
(a) An Interministerial Committee, under the chairman-
ship of the Minister of Agriculture or his representative,
to make policy decisions affecting the Project, to recom-
mend budgets and review staffing requirements, and to co-
ordinate the activities of ministries and agencies in the
Project Area.
(b) A Wolamo Development Committee to provide liai-
son between the Wolamo Awraja authorities, local repre-
sentatives of ministries of the Borrower and farmers in
the Project Area.
(ii) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall establish a Liaison Committee, which shall
include representatives of WADU, of the Chilalo Agricul-
tural Development -Unit (CADU) established by the Bor-
rower and the Swedish International Development Author-
ity in 1967, of the Ministry of Agriculture and of other
interested parties to coordinate the work of WADU and
CADU. This Liaison Committee shall be established and
maintained unless or until the Association agrees to an
alternative entity assuming the functions of such Liaison
Committee.
The initial terms of reference of and parties represented
on all such committees shall be acceptable to the Associa-
tion, and all proposed changes in either shall be subject
to the prior approval of the Association.
SECTION 4.10. The Borrower shall complete the mosquito
and malaria control program now in progress in the Proj-
ect Area in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿11
SECTION 4.11. The Borrower shall expeditiously com-
plete or expeditiously cause to be completed the aerial
surveys and mapping of the Wolamo Awraja now in
progress.
SECTION 4.12. The Borrower shall confer upon settlers
titles to land in the new settlements on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Association. Such terms and condi-
tions shall not be altered without prior approval of the
Association.
SECTION 4.13. After the Project Period, the Borrower
shall continue to carry out the marketing and credit opera-
tions referred to in Parts V and VI of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement at a level to be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association and shall make available, promptly as
needed, all funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose, unless or until the cooperative
societies referred to in Part V of Schedule 2 to this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement are able to carry out such
operations.
SECTION 4.14. During the period described in the suc-
ceeding sentence of this Section, the Borrower will levy
and collect a development cess upon farms in the new
settlements in no case less than fifty-eight Ethiopian dol-
lars per farm per year. No development cess will be levied
or collected during a three-year moratorium measured
from the date of settlement, and the cess will be levied and
collected in each of the twenty years following the end of
such moratorium.
SECTION 4.15. The Borrower will levy and collect a mar-
keting fee upon each farmer using the marketing centers
in the Project Area, in no case less than thirty Ethiopian
dollars per farmer per year, until such time as the co-
operative societies referred to in Part V of Schedule 2 to


﻿12
this Development Credit Agreement have assumed respon-
sibility for the operation of the marketing centers.
SECTION 4.16. The Borrower shall extend credit to farm-
ers as described in Part VI of Schedule 2 to this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and shall establish and maintain a
revolving fund, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, into which shall be paid the capital and in-
terest elements of repayments by farmers for such credit.
Except as otherwise agreed by the Association, the pro-
ceeds of this revolving fund will be made available only
for further agricultural credits.
SECTION 4.17. Prior to fi1alization of any proposals for
changes in the organizaLion of such subdivision or sub-
divisions of the Ministry of Agriculture as directly affect
the Project, the Borrower agrees to inform the Association
of such proposals to give the Association opportunity to
comment thereon.
SECTION 4.18. If the Borrower shall enact any lad re-
form legislation concerning registration, recording or use
of land within the territories of the Borrower, the Bor-
rower shall treat the Project Area as one of the priority
areas for purposes of implementation of such legislation.
SECTION 4.19. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.20. This Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with
the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 4.21. Except as the Association and the Bor-
rower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes to


﻿I
13
insure or cause to be insured the goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and
other hazards incident to acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair
such goods.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the prin-
cipal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal, together with
such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditioinal conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) The Borrower shall have established the two Com-
mittees specified in Section 4.09(i) of this Development
Credit Agreement and the Committee or the alternative
entity specified in Section 4.09(ii) of this Development
Credit Agreement, all Committees with terms of reference
acceptable to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall have established WADIT pur-
suant to Section 4.02 of this Development Credit Agree-


﻿I
14
ment and shall have appointed personnel to the positions
of Project Director, Chief of the Finance and Personnel
Section, a Planning Officer and an Engineer, the former
two to be acceptable to the Association and appointed on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall have opened the bank account
and shall have made the initial deposit referred to in
Section 4.04 of this Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 6.02. The date of February 27, 1970, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.02, 4.04, 4.07, 4.09, 4.13, 4.16, 4.17 and 4.18
of this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate on
the date on which this Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date
of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Bor-
rower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
M?.iistry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia


﻿15
Alternative address for cables:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ MINASSE HAILE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                             in Dollar Equivalent
I. (a) C.i.f. price of vehicles, tractors,
agricultural implements and
farm inputs for the Project and
ex-factory price of locally as-
sembled tractors                     630,000
(b) Foreign staff of WADI               535,000
II. (a) Local staff of WADU, including
salaries and allowances              800,000
(b) Project buildings and civil works    450,000
(c) Other Project costs, such    as
gasoline, vehicle spare parts,
livestock and other farm inputs      750,000
III. Unallocated                              335,000
TOTAL       3,500,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in
either Category I or II shall decrease, the amount of
the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Association to
Category III.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in
either Category I or II shall increase, an amount equal
to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit (or, in the case of Cate-
gory II, an amount equal to 70o of such increase) will
be allocated by the Association, at the request of the


﻿17
Borrower, to such Category from Category III, sub-
ject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association, in respect of the cost of
the items in the other Category.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the implementation by the Borrower .nd
WADU over six years of an integrated program to im-
prove agriculture in the Project Area.
The implementation of the Project consists of the fol-
lowing:
PART I. Land Planning and Settlement. This will in-
clude: (a) reorganization of existing holdings in selected
areas in the Sodo and Boloso Woredas (which Woredas
are hereinafter called "the highlands") ; and (b) the con-
struction and supervision of new settlements at Abela and
Bale ("the new settlements"). Settlers in the new settle-
ments will receive title to their new farms after a proba-
tionary period. Titles will prohibit subdivision and will re-
quire settlers to follow satisfactory cropping patterns.
PART II. Road Construction, Land Clearing and Soil
Conservation. This will include about 190 kms. of new roads
and tracks in the highlands and about 185 kms. in the new
settlements. Land in the new settlements will be cleared.
Soil conservation works will consist mainly of cut-off and
contour drains.
PART III. Provision of Water Supplies. Conservation
measures including the construction of weirs and the di-
version of existing flows will be undertaken to improve
water supplies in the highlands. Measures to supply water
to the new settlements and Project headquarters will be
undertaken after detailed surveys.
PART IV. Extension Services. Extension services will
be provided in both the highlands and the new settlements.
This will include the construction, equipping and operation
of a training center and a Project farm to be used for


﻿19
training Project staff and farmers. A cattle innoculation
service will be provided.
PART V. Construction of Marketing Centers and Coffee
Processing Centers. Five simple markets and four coffee
processing centers will be constructed and operated in the
Project Area. Cooperative societies will be formed at each
market.
PART VI. Agricultural Credit and Services. Credit will
be made available in the form of farm inputs, implements
and cattle and in the form of cash for the hire of labor in
the new settlements.
PART VII. Studies and Project Preparation. Detailed
studies will be carried out to determine what other areas
within the Wolamo Awraja are suitable for settlement, if
any. Proposals will be prepared for possible future proj-
ects covering the remainder of the highland area in the
Wolamo Awraja and any suitable settlement area in the
Wolamo Awraja.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1975.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, with
respect to all contracts which are to be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding pursuant to
Section 3.02 of this Development Credit Agreement, the
following procedures will be observed:
(a) Individual contracts shall be of a size sufficiently
large so as not to discourage potential bidders or to
impede an economical and diligent carrying out of the
Project.
(b) Before inviting tenders the Borrower shall submit to
the Association for its approval the proposed standard
bid invitation documents and a description of tendering
procedures.
(C) uless otherwise aoreed with the Association, the
Borrower shall submit to the Association for approval prior
to awarding the contract the summary of the bids received,
an analysis report and recommendations, and a justifica-
tion of the propo,-al for awarding the contract.
2. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, with
respect to all contracts which are not subject to interna-
tional competitive bidding pursuant to Section 3.02 of this
Development Credit Agreement, the following procedures
will be observed:
(a) For any individual order amounting to E $10,000 or
move, aii invitation to tender shall be published in at least
three consecutive issues of two official daily newspapers in
Ethiopia. Such invitations shall allow a period of not less
than one month for tenders to be submitted and shall an-
nounce the date, time and place at which they will be pub-
licly opened. All tenders received shall be opened and pur-
chase decisions made by the Borrower's purchasing com-
mittee established under the Borrower's regulations gov-


﻿21
erning the purchasing procedure of certain government
departments. Bid evaluation should be consistent with the
terms and conditions set forth in the invitation to bid.
(b) For any individual order costing more than E $2,500
but less than E $10,000, invitations to tender are not re-
quired, but at least three offers shall be obtained and
evaluated by appropriate officials of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
(c) The award of contracts pursuant to subparagraphs
(a) and (b) of this paragraph 2 shall be made to the bidder
whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated
bid and who meets the appropriate standards of capability
and financial responsibility. For the purpose of determining
the lowest evaluated bid, factors other than price, such as
the time of completion of construction or other work, the
efficiency and reliability of the equipment, the time of its
delivery and the availability of service and spare parts,
may also be taken into consideration.
(d) The Borrower shall submit to the Association at the
time the award is made a summary of bids or quotations,
an analysis report and recommendations, a brief justifica-
tion for making the award, and, as soon as the contract has
been signed and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account, the Borrower will send a copy thereof to
the Association together with a copy of the proces-verbal
of the public opening of the tenders.
(e) For any individual order costing less than E $2,500,
the Project Director shall be permitted to make local
purchases of goods without reference to any other
authority.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Staffing of WADU
WADU will be headed by a Project Director who will be
assisted by a staff including personnel who will fill the
following positions:
1) a Deputy Project Director;
2) a Chief of Finance;
3) a Chief of Development;
4) a Chief of Marketing, Credit and Cooperatives;
5) a Chief of Training and Trials;
6) an Extension Officer;
7) a Settlement Officer;
8) a Planning Officer; and
9) an Engineer.


