Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19001
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION RE1$ORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3439 - PH)
January 15, 1999
Energy and Mining Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
As of Januarv 15, 1998
Currency Unit:              =          Philippines Peso (P)
P1.00                       -          US$0.025
US$1.00                     =          P38.50
P 1.00                      =          100 Centavos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DOE              Department of Energy
EIRR             Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMB              Environmental Management Board
ERB              Energy Regulatory Board
EVAT             Expanded Value Added Tax
JEXIM            The Export - Import
NEA              National Electrification Administration
NEDA             National Economic & Development Authority
NPC              National Power Corporation
OECF             Overseas Economic Development Fund
PBAC             Pre- and Postqualification Bid and Award Committee
PIP              Performance Improvement Program
PNOC             Philippines National Oil Corporation
RERP             Rural Electrification Revitalization Project
REC              Rural Electric Cooperative
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SGS              Societe Generale De Surveillance
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
Vice President    :   Jean - Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director  :   Vinay K. Bhargava, EACPF
Sector Manager   :    Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
Staff Member    :     Heinz Pape, Energy Specialist, EASEG



CONTENTS
Preface ........
Evaluation Summary ................                                                                                     ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT   .                                                       .........................1
A. Project Background                            ....................                        '          .         1
B. Project Objectives ..................2
C. Project Components                                                 ..                                        - 2
D. Evaluation Of Objectives ..................2
E. Achievement Of Project Objectives .............................. ..3
F. Procurement And Implementation Record ...............................5
G. Major Factors Affecting The Project .............................. ..8
H. Project Sustainability                         ..1.............................. 1
I. Bank Performance ................................ 12
J. Borrower Performance ................................                                                        12
K. Assessment Of Outcome .............                              ................... 13
L. Future Operation                           ..13
M. Key Lessons Learned ................................................ 13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ...................................................                                        15
Table 1:  Summary Of Assessments ................................................ 15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans ................................................ 16
Table 3: Project Timetable                           ................................................ 17
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cummulative Estimate And Actual                                        ..  17
Table 5: Key Indicators For Project Implementation .............................................  18
Table 6: Key Performance Indicators For Project Operation .                               ................................. 19
Table 7: Studies Included In Project                          .......................................... 20
Table 8A-1:  Project Costs In Millions US$                      ................................................ 20
Table 8A-2: Project Costs In Millions Pesos ................................................ 21
Table 8B: Project Financing ................................................. 21
Table 9: Economic Costs And Benefits .....................                         ........................... 22
Table 10: Status Of Legal Covenants ..                    . .............................................. 23
Table 11: Compliance With Operational Manual Statements ................................. 24
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  ................................................ 24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions                            .......................................... 25
Annex 1: Procurement History of Wood Poles ...................................                                          26
Annex 2: Procurement History of Concrete Poles ............. ..                                .................... 28
Annex 3: Financial Statements of NEA  ...................................                                              29
Annex 4: Aide Memoire of ICR  Mission ....................................                                            31
Annex 5: Borrower's Final Evaluation Report                               .................................... 33
Annex 6: Borrower's Comments on the Draft ICR  ...............                                ..................... 36
MAP (IBRD 30084)



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3439 - PH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rural Electrification
Revitalization Project in the Philippines for which Loan 3439 - PH in the amount of $91.3 million
was approved on February 25, 1992 and made effective on October 22, 1992.
The project was scheduled to be closed on December 31, 1996. A first extension was
granted until December 31, 1997, and a second extension until April 30, 1998. The request for a
third extension was rejected and the loan was closed on April 30, 1998. The total disbursed
amount was $54, 642,441.76.
The ICR was prepared by Heinz Pape (EASEG) with the assistance of Janmil Sopher
(WBGSA) and Leonardo Rodaje and Rene Manuel from the Resident Mission in the Philippines.
The ICR was reviewed by Mr. Yoshihiko Sumi, Sector Manager of EASEG and Mr. Vinay K.
Bhargava, Country Director, Philippines. The Borrower's own evaluation of the project and
comments on the draft ICR are included as an Annex to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR began in October 1998, about one month before the ICR mission
was conducted around the end of November 1998. The ICR is based on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and discussions with Bank staff and staff from the
Borrower and the Beneficiaries involved in project implementation.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3439-PH)
Evaluation Summary
Background
1.  In 1989, the Bank had produced a report entitled An Integrated Prograrn to Revitalize the
Sector (Report No. 8016-PH) which pointed to a number of weaknesses in the power distribution
sector of the Philippines. High system losses and precarious finances were the most visible
weaknesses. The report contained recommendations on how to improve the performance of the
sector and provided the foundation for the Rural Electrification Revitalization Project (RERP).
The project was appraised in March 1991 and approved by the Bank's Board on February 25,
1992. The loan of US$91.3 million became effective on October 22, 1992. The planned closing
date was December 31, 1996. Two extensions were granted but a request for a third extension
was rejected. The loan was closed on April 30, 1998.
Project Objectives
2.   Objectives. The project had three objectives.  One objective was to strengthen the
National Electrification Administration (NEA), the Government's core agency for implementing
rural electrification policy. NEA was ultimately to be transformed into an "interested lender" and
the project was aimed at supporting this through improving "interested lender" functions and
changing NEA's organization. The second objective was to improve the performance of rural
electric cooperatives (RECs). The third objective was to increase the reliability and availability
of power supply in rural areas.
3.   Components. The project consisted of an investment component and a capacity building
component. Under the investment component, material for rehabilitation and expansion projects
was delivered to 46 RECs and seven regional staging areas with warehouses were established.
Including interest during construction, physical and price contingencies, US$ 90.3 million was
made available by the Bank for the investment component. The capacity building component
was mainly financed by USAID through a loan of US$9 million. The Bank made US$1 million
available for this component.
4.   Evaluation of Objectives. The project did not aim at major reforms but rather to lay the
foundations for such reforms by strengthening key institutions, NEA and the RECs. Starting with
strengthening measures rather than major reforms was realistic. The RECs and NEA are part of
the political texture of the country and major reforms of the distribution sector would meet a lot
of political resistance. The Omnibus Power Bill which was discussed in the last Congress (1996 -
98) included major reforms, but this legislation did not pass.
5.   The objective to improve the reliability and availability of power supply in rural areas was
important. In the early 1990s, about 50 percent of the population in rural areas had no access to
electricity and those who had were hampered by frequent outages.



- iv -
Implementation Experience and Results
6.   Achievement of Objectives - NEA. The objective to strengthen NEA has been partly
achieved. The project has improved NEA's evaluation and selection of investment proposals, and
further, the construction of staging areas owned and operated by the RECs has enormously
reduced NEA's role in material handling. (This should only be a support function for a core
agency). However, NEA's organization remains a major weakness. In order to become an
"interested lender" NEA's organization will need to more closely reflect that of a banking
concern. Proposals in that direction were only partially implemented. Another major weakness is
NEA's finances. The Government had agreed to a financial restructuring plan for NEA before
the project was appraised, but the plan has not been implemented to date.
7.   Achievement of Objectives - RECs. The objective to improve the performance of the
RECs has been partly achieved. Overall, the performance of the participating RECs has
improved as is most impressively indicated by the decline of average system losses from 20.0
percent in 1992 to 14.9 percent by October 1998. Target values which were specified in
performance improvement programs were not fully achieved, however. Most RECs met the
targets for debt service coverage, the current ratio and the self-financing ratio but most failed to
meet the loss reduction targets and the targets for days receivable and non-power cost per
customer.
8.   Achievement of Objectives - Electricity Supply. The objective to increase reliability has
been partly achieved. System reliability in terms of outages did not improve, but the situation
would have been much worse without the delivery of, above all, transformers and substations
since the distribution networks had to cope with a sharp increase in power demand. The project
also improved the quality of power supply in terms of voltage stability.  Only modest
contributions were made towards the objective to increase the availability of power supply as the
project failed to supply wood poles and conductors.
9.   Procurement. The history of the project has mainly been a history of procurement
problems. Various factors, ranging from NEA's reorganization in the wake of the elections in
1992, to poor project management and technical issues, caused considerable delays. The SAR
had assumed that shipments would start in early 1993 and end mid 1994. In reality, shipments
started in September 1995 and ended in April 1998.
10.  Bidding was originally done for 47 schedules under IFB 72. Two schedules thereof were
later cancelled and five schedules were rebid under IFB 74. Contracts were signed for 36
schedules and deliveries were obtained from 31 thereof. The suppliers of wood poles and
conductors (four schedules) defaulted on their contracts. Rebidding of these contracts was done
under IFB 78. When the loan was closed on April 30, 1998, deliveries of material procured under
IFB 74 had not been completed and only the bid evaluation of IFB 78 had been finalized.
11.  Disbursement. Total disbursement reached US$ 54.6 million, corresponding to 60 percent
of the loan amount. The amount of US$ 36.7 million was cancelled after loan closing.
12. Implementation. The implementation of all rehabilitation and expansion projects should
have begun before the end of December 1994 and been completed by June 30. 1996. In reality,
the implementation began in early 1996 and is still ongoing.
13. A source of concern is the large amount of material which is still in stock. By the end of
October 1998, material in the staging areas exceeded 25 percent of the delivered quantities for
about 45 percent of all material schedules. While that is partly due to the non availability of



v -
complementary material, in particular wood poles and conductors, two other reasons must be
noted: some material has not yet been allocated to RECs, and there is allocated material which is
not needed or wanted any longer.
14.  It has not been possible to determine the ex-post EIRR of the project. A lot of material has
not yet been utilized and NEA does not have up-to-date files which show for which projects
material has been utilized. A lot of material has not been and will not be used for the originally
scheduled projects because, due to the considerable delays in deliveries, many of those projects
have already been implemented with material obtained from other sources. While it is not
possible to determine the ex-post EIRR, the achieved reduction of system losses can be taken as
an indicator of sound economic rates of return.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.  Considerable delays and excess material are the two key problems of the project. The
major factors which caused these problems are described below.
16.  The Elections in May 1992 and NEA's Subsequent Reorganization in Early 1993 had a
devastating impact on the project. Very little progress was made in the months before and after
the elections as management devoted little time to the project. During the reorganization in early
1993, NEA's entire management was changed and over 20 staff who had been trained under the
Energy Sector Loan and had already started working on the project were assigned other tasks or
decided to leave NEA. Staff who replaced them were not trained and were much less committed
to the project.
17. Overestimation of NEA's Capability. From previous smaller projects (Loan 1546-PH
and Loan 3165-PH), NEA was known to have weaknesses in procurement-related issues. It was
unfortunate that trained staff were lost during the reorganization in early 1993. But given the size
of the project and the absence of a proper project management system, it must be doubted that
NEA would have been able to handle procurement in a timely manner even if the trained staff had
been available. NEA would have needed more support from consultants right from the
beginning. In fairness, it must be said that the Bank had expected more assistance, based on a
loose agreement with USAID that the consultant in charge of the USAID-financed capacity
building component would help NEA with procurement issues. Unfortunately, that did not
materialize.
18.  Unrealistic Assumptions Regarding Procurement and Delivery. The project time
schedule was based on overly optimistic assumptions regarding the processing of procurement
and the delivery schedule. In view of the size of the project it is surprising that the SAR assumed
that delivery of materials would virtually be completed within 18 months. Even if NEA had been
an efficient procurement agency, the probability would have been high that more time would
have been required. Some serious delays had to be expected in view of the mere size of the
project.
19.  No Results-Oriented Approach by NEA. Throughout the project there was no drive for
results on NEA's side. The Bank acknowledges that NEA had to observe numerous regulations
as it would otherwise have been accused of wrongdoings by suppliers and certain factions within
NEA. The regulations certainly affected the execution of tasks but NEA could have been much
more efficient nevertheless.



- vi -
20.  Other factors which caused delays were inherent weaknesses in the procurement process,
possible favoritism, complaints received from bidders, and the technical issue of whether poles
made from Chinese larch are adequate for the Philippines.
21.  Inconsistencies Between Needed Material and Delivered Material were the origin of
the excess material problem. The bidding documents were based on preliminary lists which had
been prepared by mid 1993. The contracts which the RECs signed with NEA between April 1995
and October 1997 reflected material requirements which had usually been determined after
bidding. As a consequence, for many material schedules, the ordered quantities exceeded the
quantities allocated to the RECs by a substantial margin. The resulting excess material increased
further because some RECs did not need or want certain material any longer once it arrived after
a considerable delay.
Outcome and Bank/Borrower Performance
22.  Project Sustainability. The prospects for project sustainability are uncertain. The project
has contributed to an improved performance of the RECs but significant further improvements
will require major institutional reforms such as their transformation into stock coops. NEA's new
administration supports such reforms but other interest groups have, and will continue to oppose
them. The project has strengthened some of NEA's functions but NEA's role in a reformed
distribution sector remains unclear. Regarding the physical component, the fast utilization of
material is not guaranteed in view of the substantial excess material.
23.  Bank  Performance.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory  during project
identification and preparation but had deficiencies during project appraisal and supervision. NEA
was not provided with sufficient support from consultants in the procurement process. The Bank
also made naive assumptions regarding the duration of the project. That no supervision mission
was conducted between May 1996 and November 1997 prevented the excess material problem
from being addressed earlier.
24.  Borrower Performance. The borrower's performance was satisfactory during project
implementation but highly unsatisfactory during most of the time of project implementation.
NEA has to assume responsibility for poor project management. no drive for results, and puzzling
award recommendations.
25. Assessment of Outcome. The project outcome is rated unsatisfactory as the objectives
have only been partly achieved. The excess material problem could have even justified a highly
unsatisfactory rating. But the Bank is confident that the establishment of a task force, which was
done by NEA's new administrator in December 1998, will soon solve the problem.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
26.  Future Operations. NEA has agreed to inform the Bank at the end of each quarter about
the status of utilization of delivered material. Staff at the resident mission, and supervision
missions of the Bank's still ongoing energy projects, will monitor utilization.
27.  Key Lessons. Projects with highly politicized agencies such as NEA, where the risk is
high that key personnel will be changed after general elections, should not be initiated shortly
before such elections. Alternatively, commitments should be obtained from the borrower that key
personnel will not be changed.
28.  At the time of Board presentation, at least the first bidding document should be available.



29.  A project implementation unit should be in place at the beginning of a project. The unit
should be staffed adequately or the project director should be authorized to assign personnel from
other departments for certain tasks.
30.  Procurement should be based on a cautious assessment of the capability of the procurement
agency. Two or three small packages should be established rather than one large package.
31.  Consultants which reside in the country should not be selected for assistance in
procurement as they may not be considered impartial by the borrower.
32.  If there are indications that favoritism plays a role, then the Bank should consider getting
out of the project at the first signs, since chances are very low that favoritism will not be present
in the later phases of the project.
33.  Small items such as hardware and tools should not be included in the list of material
funded by World Bank projects if they can be purchased locally.
34.  The Bank's procurement tasks should be shifted to the resident mission.
35.  Time schedules should be based on conservative assumptions regarding the duration of bid
evaluation and delivery schedules. A buffer for delays should be added to the normally expected
duration.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3439-PH)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.  In 1969, the National Electrification Administration (NEA) was established to serve as the
core agency for implementing the Government's rural electrification policy. NEA was made
responsible for providing support to rural electrification by financing investments in distribution
networks and providing technical assistance and operating guidelines to distribution companies.
The establishment of distribution companies in the form of Rural Electric Cooperatives (RECs)
started in 1971. Their number grew quickly in the 1970s and reached 110 by the end of 1979. By
the end of 1998, there were 119 RECs in the Philippines. The RECs are organized as non-stock,
non-profit membership corporations to distribute electric power in designated and predominantly
rural franchise areas.
2.   Until the mid 1980s. the Government pushed NEA to expand electrification without
sufficient regard for cost. That was possible because foreign funds for electrification were
flowing abundantly. NEA was even given a number of other roles such as to finance uneconomic
mini-hydro and dendro thermal projects. When foreign funding was cut back drastically in the
mid 1980s, serious financial and other weaknesses soon became evident. In almost all years of
the 1980s, NEA had incurred large losses and its financial losses of 707 million Pesos in 1990
exceeded twice its total revenues. The finances of the RECs were in the same dismal state. The
total net worth of all RECs was negative, 92 RECs were in arrears with their NEA obligations and
the RECs typically only managed to collect 90 percent or less of revenues. The poor performance
of the RECs was caused by low tariffs, inefficient operation, negligent maintenance, and
uneconomic expansion programs imposed by highly politicized Boards. System losses averaged
25 percent, reaching 50 percent in some RECs.
3.   The Bank had been involved in the sector since 1978 when a US$ 60 million loan was
made through the Government to NEA to finance electricity distribution investments (Loan 1546-
PH). The project was completed in 1983. It largely met its objectives but experienced difficulties
in procurement. In 1989, the Bank provided NEA with $ 22.2 million under the Energy Sector
Loan to support (i) the rehabilitation requirements of 12 RECs, (ii) power supply upgrades of
eight other R.ECs, and (iii) substantial institutional development for NEA itself.
4.   In 1989, the Bank had also produced a report entitled An Integrated Program to Revitalize
the Sector (Report No. 8016-PH) which contained recommendations on how to solve the various
problems of the rural power sector. NEA embraced the Bank's recommendations and took the
lead in trying to implement its provisions. In the early 1990s, some progress had been made. The
Government agreed to a financial restructuring plan for NEA which, unfortunately, has not been
implemented to date. The RECs had substantially raised their tariffs and brought down system
losses to about 22 percent in 1991. In November 1991, NEA's Board approved a Statement of
Operating Policy which streamlined its operations and was considered a first step towards
transforming NEA into an "interested lender".
5.   NEA had developed an investment program for 1991 - 1995, composed of investments
with a minimum economic rate of return of 15 percent. The program formed the basis for the
Bank's Rural Electrification Revitalization Project (RERP). The project was appraised in March



- 2 -
1991 and approved by the Bank's Board on February 25, 1992. The loan of US$ 91.3 million
became effective on October 22, 1992. The planned closing date was December 31, 1996.
6.   A project of almost the same size was funded by the OECF. A loan of Yen 11.4 billion has
been made available to support the rehabilitation of 44 RECs. The Bank-financed project
supported 46 RECs.' The OECF loan became effective in October 1994 and is scheduled to be
closed in October 2001.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.   The project had three objectives.  One objective was to strengthen the National
Electrification Administration (NEA), the Government's core agency for implementing the rural
electrification policy. NEA was ultimately to be transformed into an "interested lender" and the
project aimed at supporting this through improving "interested lender" functions and changing
NEA's organization. The second objective was to improve the performance of rural electric
cooperatives (RECs) through performance improvement programs. The third objective was to
increase the reliability and availability of power supply in rural areas by financing part of NEA's
investment program for the years 1992 - 1995.
C. PROJECT COMPONENTS
8.   The project consisted of an investment component and a capacity building component.
9.   Under the investment component, equipment and material for rehabilitation and expansion
programs was delivered to 46 RECs. The participating RECs were required to implement
performance improvement programs (PIPs) in order to obtain funding from the loan. Monitoring
was done through monthly reports which the RECs submitted to NEA. The establishment of
seven staging areas with warehouses was also funded by the loan. Including interest during
construction, physical and price contingencies, US$ 90.3 million was made available by the Bank
for the investment component.
10.  The capacity building component was mainly financed by USAID. A loan of US$9
million was made available by USAID to finance consulting services and training to assist NEA
and the RECs in project execution, operation and management, including upgrading technical and
financial skills. The Bank's loan included US$ 1.0 million for consultant services to finance
unanticipated, highly specialized technical assistance.
D. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
11.  The project did not aim at major reforms but rather to lav the foundations for such reforms
by strengthening key institutions, NEA and the RECs. The strengthening should be done via PIPs
for participating RECs and by improving functions of NEA which would be important for it to
become an "interested lender". The evaluation of investment proposals and the funding of only
such proposals which had a sound rate of return were among these functions. Though not
explicitly mentioned in the SAR, the project was also intended to promote the reorganization of
NEA. The Accounts Management and the Loan Processing Department were to be given a
stronger role, and activities such as training or technical assistance, which would be support
activities under the "interested lender" concept, were to be phased out.
The SAP mentions about 54 RECs as beneficiaries. In fact, 54 RECs originally applied for an on-lending
agreement with NEA. Two applicants later merged, four backed out and no loan was approved by NEA
for another three.



- 3 -
12.  Starting with strengthening measures rather than major reforms was realistic. The RECs
and NEA are part of the political texture of the country and major reforms would have met a lot
of political resistance and also required changes in legislation. The Statement of Operating
Policy which NEA's Board had approved in November 1991 promnised that the strengthening
objectives could largely be achieved as far as NEA was concerned. Regarding the RECs, they
had to subscribe to PIPs but the problem was that no real enforcement mechanism existed. NEA
can take over the management of poorly performing RECs but that is limited to extremely poor
performers in practice. The RERP did not introduce other enforcement mechanisms but it is hard
to see which other mechanisms could have been successfully implemented without major reforms
of the legal and institutional framework.
13.  The objective to improve the reliability and availability of power supply in rural areas was
important. In the early 1990s, about 50 percent of the population in rural areas had no access to
electricity and those who had were hampered by frequent outages. The outages were mainly
caused by the shortage of generation capacity but failures of distribution components also made
significant contributions. It was realistic to assume that there would be no major problems with
the installation of delivered material, since that was a traditional strength of NEA, and even the
capability of most RECs was advanced in that they only needed assistance with sophisticated
equipment. The flow of material had been a problem before when NEA had only one central
warehouse. Goods were then shipped to the RECs soon after arrival but the RECs could often not
put them to use because complementary goods were still outstanding. The establishment of
regional staging areas with warehouses promised to end this. Procurement was a known
weakness of NEA. However, it was assumed that the risk of delays was within acceptable bounds
because NEA staff had been trained in procurement through the Energy Sector Project, and
because USAID had verbally agreed that their consultant would assist NEA right from the
beginning.
E. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
14.  Enhancing NEA's capability to function as an effective core agency for the sector.
This objective has been partly achieved. NEA has applied sound methods to evaluate and select
investment proposals submitted by RECs and only projects with a healthy rate of return, usually
15 percent, are nowadays funded by NEA.  The institution also formulated performance
improvement programs for the RECs which is a necessary component of the supervision function
of a core agency.  The construction of staging areas owned and operated by the RECs,
enormously reduced NEA's role in material handling. (This should only be a support function for
a core agency). Support services should also be rendered on a fee basis and NEA's policy to
charge cost-covering fees for training services, which began in 1994, is a first step in this
direction.
15.  A major remaining weakness is NEA's organization. In order to become an "interested
lender" NEA's organization will need to more closely reflect that of a banking concern. But
proposals in that direction, which were submitted by a local consulting firm funded under the
Energy Sector Project, met with stiff internal resistance from NEA managers and ended
inconclusively. The proposals of a local banking consultancy funded from the RERP loan were
partly implemented.  Finance, Loans and Accounts Management Departments have been
established but NEA's Technical Services and Coop Operations groups, which would render
support services in the "interested lender" concept, remain the largest and strongest elements in
NEA's organization.



- 4 -
16.  Another major weakness is NEA's finances. The Bank only agreed to appraise the project
after the Government committed itself to the financial restructuring of NEA. One key component
was the passage of a bill to increase NEA's authorized capital from PhP 5 billion to PhP 25
billion. The bill passed the House of Representatives during the 8th (1992 - 1994) and 9th (1994
- 1996) Congress but failed to do so in the Senate. Technically, NEA has been bankrupt for many
years. The Government has kept NEA solvent through a patchwork of financial measures such as
relieving NEA of debt service obligations related to foreign loans.
17.  Encouraging operational and financial reforms among the RECs. Progress has been
mixed. In the contract with NEA, each participating REC had to agree to a performance
improvement program. Most RECs met the targets for debt service coverage, the current ratio
and the self-financing ratio, but most failed to meet the loss reduction targets and the targets for
days receivable and non-power cost per customer. Table 6 in Part II of this report provides
details.
18.  Reducing losses has been the most important target. In 1996, only 38 percent of the RECs
met the loss reduction targets. The corresponding figures for 1997 and the first ten months of
1998 are 46 percent and 23 percent respectively. This disappointing result is to a significant
extent due to the non delivery or delayed delivery of material by the project. The target values
were based on the assumption that material deliveries would be obtained as scheduled. The
perfornance of the RECs was much better when using another benchmark, the cap on system
losses which can be recovered through the tariff. In 1996, almost 90 percent of the participating
RECs had system losses of less than 22 percent which was the cap in that year. In 1997, the cap
of 20 percent was met by 87 percent of the participating RECs. In the first ten months of 1998,
almost 75 percent of the RECs met the 18 percent cap. On average, system losses of participating
RECs declined from 20.0 percent in 1992 to 14.9 percent by October 1998.2.
19.  Improving the availability of reliable electricity supply in rural areas. This objective
has been partly achieved. The project improved the reliability and quality of power supply, but
made only modest contributions towards increasing the availability of power supply.
20.  Statistics do not show a decline in the annual outage hours, but the situation would have
been much worse without the project. The distribution networks had to cope with a sharp
increase in power demand which led to overloaded lines and transformers and, consequently,
reliability problems. The delivery of, above all, transformers and substations helped to keep
those problems within acceptable levels. Recipient coops also confirmed that material obtained
from the project improved the quality of power supply in terms of voltage stability. The average
electrification ratio of participating RECs increased from 55 percent by the end of 1990 to 65
percent by the end of 1998, but the project made only modest contributions because it failed to
deliver wood poles and conductors. Numerous problems ranging from the default of suppliers to
technical issues, prevented any wood poles, and all but negligible quantities of conductors, from
being delivered.
On the one hand, the reduction cannot be solely attributed to material delivered by the project. Other
material was used as well. On the other hand, without the material obtained from the project, system
losses would have been higher. All RECs experienced a sharp increase in power demand which led to
overloaded lines and transformers and consequently high losses. Material obtained from the project
helped to alleviate the problem of overloaded distribution capacity.



F. PROCUREMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
21.  Procurement. The history of the project has mainly been a history of procurement
problems. As a consequence, procurement-related issues also dominate this ICR.
22.  Procurement was done under IFB 62 for support equipment (mainly software and testing
equipment) and IFB 72 for the equipment and material needed for network rehabilitation and
expansion. Rebidding for schedules which could not be settled under IFB 72 was done under
IFB 74 and IFB 78. Contracts for the construction of warehouses were procured under IFB 73.
23.  It was originally planned to establish two tender documents for the material needed for
network rehabilitation and expansion. In May 1993, when the bidding process was far behind
schedule, it was decided to consolidate the entire procurement activity into a single tender
document to recover some of the lost time. The document, referred to as JiB 72, received the
Bank's clearance in December 1993. The document contained 47 schedules. Bids for most
schedules were received by late April 1994. The submission of award recommendations started
in August 1994 and, except for two schedules for which recommendations were submitted in May
1995, ended in December 1994. The Bank required numerous clarifications which delayed
processing. The Bank finally gave its no objection to 38 out of the 47 schedules between
September 1994 and August 1995. Two schedules, steel poles and associated crossarms, were
cancelled, because it turned out that there was no demand. Five schedules were rebid under
IFB 74.
24.  Contracts were signed for 36 out of the 38 schedules for which the Bank gave its no
objection. No contracts were signed for two deliveries of kilowatt-hour meters because, when
being asked to extend the bid validity, the supplier informed NEA that it would only do so at a
higher price. The price would have still been lower than the price of other bidders but NEA
considered this to be a violation of procurement guidelines.
25.  Deliveries were obtained for 31 of the 36 signed contracts. Shipments started in September
1995 and ended in April 1998. The SAR had assumed that shipments would start in early 1993
and end mid 1994. The supplier of wood poles and the supplier of conductors (four contracts)
defaulted on their contracts. Several suppliers were behind the agreed delivery schedule but
delays usually did not exceed three months.3  Quality problems were experienced with some
schedules4 but all problems were finally solved.
26.  IFB 74 included nine schedules: four schedules for which no responsive bids were obtained
under IFB 72; the two schedules for kilowatt-hour meters mentioned in para 24; one schedule,
concrete poles, which had not obtained the Bank's no objection; and an additional schedule each
for wood poles and anchor logs.
3 Major exceptions were hardware, clamnps and Class 100 kWh meters. The final shipment of hardware
and clamps was delayed by one year when production facilities of the supplier were destroyed by a fire in
February 1997. Class 100 kWh meters were delivered as scheduled by the end of 1996 but without
sockets. The manufacturer of the meters had stopped the production of sockets in 1992, i.e. before bid
submission. In early 1998, NEA finally accepted the bidder's proposal to deliver locally manufactured
sockets at a discount.
4 Major quality problems were experienced with the first shipment of distribution transformers which
arrived in August 1996. Several transformers were damaged because of inadequate crating. The supplier
repaired all rejected transformers until the end of 1997. Other rejects concerned hardware, Class 200
kWh meters, and hydraulic compression tools. The complaints about delivered hardware were not
mainly caused by defects but by the coops' strong preference for otlher brands.



-6 -
27.  Bidding for IFB 74 was done in the period October - December 1995. Bid evaluation and
contract award proceeded relatively smoothly for seven schedules but not for wood poles and
associated anchor logs. In fact, the schedules became a nightmare for NEA and the Bank. The
various problems which affected these schedules are discussed in Annex I. It took until
November 1997 before the contracts were finally awarded. When loan was closed in April 1998,
no deliveries of wood poles and anchor logs had been made and deliveries of concrete poles and
kWh meters were not completed. The legal status of the corresponding contracts is unclear. The
suppliers will probably not insist on delivery as they know that NEA does not have the funds to
pay them.
28.  IFB 78 comprised five schedules: four schedules for conductors and one schedule for wood
poles. The schedules were originally included in IFB 72 but the suppliers had defaulted on these
schedules. The bidding document was issued in December 1997. Bid evaluation started mid
February 1998. By the end of April, NEA had submitted award recommendations for all four
conductor schedules and had finalized the evaluation of the bids for wood poles. No award
recommendations were made because NEA had well founded concerns that the three lowest
bidders offered poles of non-acceptable quality. NEA therefore proposed to conduct pre-award
inspections. The proposal was not carried out, nor were contracts signed for the delivery of
conductors, because the loan was closed on April 30, 1998.
29. Implementation. According to the SAR and the project definition in the Loan Agreement,
the implementation of all rehabilitation and expansion projects should have begun before the end
of December 1994 and been completed by June 30, 1996. The procurement delays meant that
implementation activities only started in early 1996. Due to the delays, the project was classified
as a problem project in mid 1995. A year later, when deliveries were ongoing, the project was
reclassified as satisfactory. However, it was obvious that the duration of the project had to be
extended beyond December 1996 in order to achieve the objectives. A first extension until the
end of December 1997 was granted in November 1996. A second extension until the end of April
1998 was granted in December 1997. NEA was informed at that time that another extension may
be granted if it fulfilled certain conditions linked to IFB 78 and a revised material allocation
schedule. As NEA failed to meet the latter, the loan was closed on April 30, 1998.
30.  While most material has been withdrawn from the staging areas, large quantities are still in
stock. That is partly due to the non availability of complementary material; in particular wood
poles and conductors. But two other reasons must also be noted: some of the delivered material
has not yet been allocated to RECs and some of the allocated material is not needed or wanted
any longer. That the delivered quantities would not exactly match the needed quantities was
inevitable. Distribution projects are often subject to changes and some excess material was,
therefore, to be expected. Excess material of up to 10 percent of the delivered quantities must be
considered as normal. The problem is that for more than one-fourth of all schedules, the non
allocated material already exceeds the ten-percent margin. In addition there is material that is not
needed or wanted any longer. The exact quantities are not known as only few RECs have
informed NEA. Most RECs have simply not withdrawn the not needed or not wanted quantities
from the staging areas.
31.  Some of the participating RECs do not need the three-phase meters delivered under IFB 72
any longer. The reason behind this is that some coops have meanwhile switched to time-of-use
meters for their industrial and large commercial customers. By the end of October 1998, only a
small percentage of the delivered three-phase meters had not been allocated to RECs. However,
almost 75 percent of the allocated meters were still in the staging areas.



- 7 -
32.  There is also a large stock of kilowatt-hour meters delivered under IFB 74. Some RECs
refuse to withdraw them from the staging areas as they believe that the meters are of poor quality.
They had received meters from the same manufacturer about 12 years ago and those meters really
were of poor quality. At the time of bidding for the RERP, the manufacturer was already
producing meters under a licensing agreement with a highly reputable manufacturer. The
delivered meters fulfill the technical specifications listed in the bidding document. But some
RECs nevertheless refuse to withdraw the meters, citing non-compliance with specifications
which go beyond those of the bidding document. By the end of October 1998, about 42 percent
of the delivered meters under IFB 74 were still in the staging areas.
33.  The fact that almost 50 percent of the delivered hardware was still in the staging areas by
the end of October 1998, is due to a similar reason: the preference for other brands which are
available on the local market.
34.  By the end of October 1998, the status of unallocated material and material in the staging
areas was as shown below. Material in the staging areas includes material which has been
rejected because of defects. Except for concrete poles, only minor quantities of defective material
were in the staging areas. All non-allocated material was delivered under IFB 72. The non-
allocated material does not include the material which some RECs do not need or want any
longer, which mainly relates to kilowatt-hour meters and hardware.
Number of Schedules     Percent of         Number of Schedules     Percent of
(IFB 62, 72 & 74)  Delivered Material      (IFB 62, 72 & 74)    Delivered Material
In Staging Areas                            Not Allocated
9                   < 10                 16                      0
8                  > 10-15                8                    >0-5
6                  > 15-25                 6                   >5-10
12                 > 25-50                 8                   >10-20
5                   > 50                   3                    >20
Comments
Deliveries comprised four schedules under IFB 62, 31 schedules under IFB 72 and seven
schedules under IFB 74. The statistic excludes voltage regulators delivered under IFB 72 because
the exact status was unknown. The statistic for the staging areas also excludes concrete poles
delivered under IFB 74 because 52 percent of the delivered quantity were rejected due to missing
holes. The supplier has started drilling the required holes.
35.  Project implementation was largely satisfactory as regards the handling of delivered
material. It is true that the warehouses were only completed between August 1996 and December
1997, i.e. when material had already been delivered, but sensitive material which had arrived
before the completion of the warehouses had been adequately stored indoors, usually either in
facilities of the consignee REC or in rented facilities. The inspection of four warehouses in
November 1997 found that all had up-to-date files which showed the allocated, delivered,
rejected and withdrawn quantities. In general, material was adequately stored and random checks
revealed no discrepancies between the actual quantities in stock and the quantities shown in the
files. The original idea, that the RECs wait to withdraw material until all the material needed for
a project has arrived, has been abandoned by most staging areas. As wood poles and conductors
will not be supplied by the project, most staging areas now ask the RECs to withdraw material
within one month after notification of arrival. Storage charges are levied by most staging areas
and at least one area has started charging penalties for late withdrawal.



- 8 -
36.  It is not possible to determine the ex-post EIRR of the project. A lot of material has not yet
been utilized and NEA does not have up-to-date files which show for which projects material has
been utilized. Only small quantities of material has been or will be used for the originally
scheduled projects because, due to the considerable delays in deliveries, many of those projects
have already been implemented with material obtained from other sources. While it is not
possible to determine the ex-post EIRR of the project, the achieved reduction of system losses can
be taken as an indicator of sound economic rates of return.
G. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
37.  Procurement Process. The procurement process had some inherent weaknesses which
contributed to the delays. Bid evaluation was done by NEA's technical evaluation committee.
The committee checked whether the bids met the specifications and produced a ranked order of
technically responsive bids giving the lowest bidder the top position. The findings of the
technical evaluation committee were reviewed by the Bank's consultant and then submitted to the
PBAC for award recommendation. The PBAC's award recommendation was submitted to the
Bank's headquarters in Washington for no objection. Once the Bank had given its no objection,
the contract was awarded by NEA's Board. After notification of contract award, the award
winner had to submit the performance guarantee before the contract was signed. Thereafter NEA
had to open the letter of credit in order for the contract to become effective.
38.  One factor which caused delays was that NEA's Board normally only met once a month
and that board meetings were occasionally cancelled. Furthermore, the Bank often sought
additional clearances and the mere distance between Manila and Washington then added to
delays. Some issues which could have been clarified quickly had Bank staff been based in
Manila were only clarified after a lengthy exchange of faxes. The large number of clarifications
sought by the Bank is surprising, because a Bank consultant had reviewed NEA's bid evaluation
and had usually reached a consensus with NEA on award recommendations. The fact that the
consultant had a residence and business interests in the Philippines affected his cooperation with
NEA as he was not considered impartial by some of NEA's staff. The time it took some award
winners to submit the performance guarantee - in one case more than half a year - and the time it
sometimes took NEA to open the letter of credit were also factors which delayed the project.
39.  The Elections in May 1992 and NEA's Subsequent Reorganization in Early 1993. The
general elections in May 1992 meant that very little progress was made over a period of several
months. In the last two or three months before the elections, management devoted little time to
the project. The elections were followed by a seven month period of uncertainty regarding the
impact on NEA's management. That certainly affected the motivation of the management and
explains why again little time was devoted to the project.
40.  The reorganization began in January 1993 with the installation of the new administrator.
Within one month, NEA's entire management was changed. While that was bad for the project it
was even worse that over 20 staff who had been trained under the Energy Sector Loan, and had
already started working on the project, were assigned other tasks or decided to leave NEA. Staff
who replaced them were not trained and were much less committed to the project. As a
consequence, NEA staff were much less efficient than could have been expected.
41.  Overestimation of NEA's Capability. Both the Bank and NEA overestimated NEA's
capability to handle the bidding process in a timely manner. NEA was known from previous
smaller projects to have weaknesses in procurement-related issues. Knowing NEA's weaknesses,
the Bank had trained NEA staff in the Energy Sector Project (Loan 3165-PH). It was unfortunate
that trained staff were lost during the reorganization in early 1993. But given the size of the



- 9 -
project and the absence of a project management system, it must be doubted that NEA would
have been able to handle the project in a timely manner even if the trained staff had been
available.
42.  As a consequence of the overestimation, the Bank initially provided NEA with insufficient
support from consultants. The consultant who was assigned in September 1992 to assist NEA in
the preparation of the technical specifications was given an enormous workload. It was only in
May 1993 when further consultants were added that real progress was made with the preparation
of IFB 72. In fairness, it must be said that the Bank had expected that NEA would get more
assistance right from the beginning.5 The expectation was based on the loose agreement with
USAID that the consultant in charge of the USAID-financed capacity building component would
help NEA with procurement. When that did not happen, time was lost due to bidding for
consulting services.6
43.  Efficient project management would have required a project implementation unit which
was never established. Tasks were carried out by staff from departments who remained under the
authority of the head of department. The project director could not order staff to carry out certain
tasks but needed the agreement of the head of department. Delays were almost unavoidable.
44.  Unrealistic Assumptions Regarding Procurement and Delivery.  The project time
schedule was based on overly optimistic assumptions regarding the processing of procurement
and the delivery schedule. In view of the size of the project - 46 RECs which are scattered over
the Philippines participated in the project, the project comprised more than 50 contracts for
delivery of equipment and material and seven contracts for the construction of warehouses - it is
surprising that the SAR assumed that it would only take three years from the preparation of tender
documents to the delivery of all material. Even if NEA had been an efficient procurement
agency, the probability would have been high that some schedules would not proceed smoothly.
Some serious delays simply had to be expected in view of the mere size of the project. It should
be noted in this context that the planned duration of the OECF-funded project which is of the
same size is 7 years which compares with the original 4Y/2 years of the Bank-financed project.
The SAR pointed to the risk that NEA might confront problems in meeting the time schedule but
no buffer was provided for delays.
45.  Single Tender Document for IFB 72. The decision in May 1993 to consolidate the entire
procurement activity into a single tender document in order to recover lost time certainly
contributed to the delays. The resulting tender for IFB 72 contained 46 separate schedules. It
was the first time that NEA had dealt with such a huge procurement package in a single bidding
process.
46.  Expanded Value Added Tax. In January, 1996, imports of equipment and material for
RECs became subject to the expanded value added tax (EVAT). NEA delayed shipments in early
1996 while trying to make the Government exempt the RECs from EVAT.
It may be argued that assistance from more consultants right from the beginning would not have been
effective in view of the adverse impact of the general elections. However, the consultants could probably
have largely compensated for the poor project management during that time.
6 When NEA was about to award the consultancy contract after the bidding process, the USAID consultant
intervened and the original concept, that the consultant should help NEA, was finally pursued.



- 10 -
47.  No Results-Oriented Approach by NEA. Throughout the project there was no drive for
results on NEA's side. The presence of Bank staff during supervision missions usually made
NEA act quickly but when Bank staff had left, NEA again followed a no-need-to-hurry approach.
The long time it often took NEA to prepare bidding documents, provide clarifications, or open
letters of credit, and NEA's lackluster handling of the excess material problem, all indicate that
there was no drive for results.
48.  The Bank acknowledges that NEA had to strictly observe numerous regulations as it would
otherwise have been accused of wrongdoings. Non-successful bidders were usually looking for
any reason for complaints. After the reorganization in 1993, there were also two factions within
NEA, one with linkages to the former Government and one with linkages to the new Government,
with both looking for reasons to undermine the other faction. These reasons understandably
made NEA closely follow existing regulations and may sometimes have prevented a speedy
execution of tasks. However, no regulation would have prevented NEA from detecting the excess
material problem and solving it in a timely manner, and there were various other instances where
NBA showed no drive for results.7
49.  Wood Poles. The procurement of wood poles under IFB 74 provides an extreme example
of how technical issues caused delays. Procurement of wood poles was affected by several other
problems, too, and became a nightmare for both NEA and the Bank. The procurement history of
wood poles is described in detail in Annex II. The technical issue which ultimately delayed
procurement by about 18 months was whether poles made from Chinese Larch are suitable for the
Philippines.
50   Favoritism. Unfortunately, favoritism may have played a role in the bidding process and
contributed to the delays. Favoritism may have already delayed the establishment of bidding
documents. One reason for the long time it took NEA to produce the technical specifications can
have been that NEA staff tried to tailor the specifications to the products of certain suppliers.
Another indicator of favoritism is that confidential correspondence between the Bank and NEA
reached bidders. Non successful bidders used the information to accuse NEA of irregularities;
partly via public media. Other indications are that the Bank had on several occasions reasons to
doubt that NEA handled procurement correctly. The procurement history of concrete poles which
is described in Annex II is an outstanding example. Procurement of distribution transformers,
kilowatt-hour meters, mobile substations and heavy equipment also saw  puzzling award
recommendations.
51.  An investigation which made headlines in local newspaper in September and October 1997
must be mentioned in the context of favoritism. Both the Bank's project and the OECF-funded
project were investigated in 1997 by the House Committee on Energy. The Committee's report
of September 3, 1997, recommended the prosecution of seven NEA officials for several reasons,
including corrupt practices, illegal procedures, unlawful acts, irregularities, mismanagement,
inexcusable negligence and costly delays.  The report also accused the Bank of "undue
meddling". A similar complaint which had been made by a bidder had been investigated by the
Bank in 1996. The investigation concluded that Bank staff had acted properly. In its response of
September 29, 1997, NEA denied all accusations. Politics may have played a role in the
investigations and unsuccessful bidders have probably  supported if not instigated the
The handling of the sockets for Class 100 kWh meters is another example. Contrary to the signed
contract, the meters were delivered without sockets. When being notified by NEA, the supplier
responded that the manufacturer had stopped the production of the sockets five years ago. The supplier
offered to deliver locally manufactured sockets at a discount. NEA continued for almost nine months to
insist on delivery by the manufacturer and only accepted the supplier's proposal after one of the Bank's
supervision mnissions strongly recommended to do so.



investigations. The investigation ended inconclusively - no NEA official was prosecuted - but
left a bitter after-taste.
52.  Complaints. The Bank and NEA received an unprecedented number of complaints from
bidders, their representatives (most bids were submitted by trading companies which acted as
representatives of the manufacturer) and even embassies of manufacturers' countries. It also
happened that complaints were directed to local media before they reached NEA or the Bank.
One complaint which reached the Bank in early August 1996 accused the task manager and
another Bank staff of unfair treatmnent of the complainant's company. An internal investigation
carried out by the Bank did not find any substantiation for the allegations. But the Bank decided
to change the task manager in autumn 1996 since he might possibly have been considered not to
be impartial in subsequent procurement activities.
53.  Most complaints were related to the procurement of wood poles - more than 10 - but other
schedules (e.g. concrete poles, kWh meters) also saw several complaints. Most complaints
lacked substance but it took time for NEA and the Bank to respond to the complaints and in at
least one case the complaints contributed to substantial delays.  This case concerned the
procurement of wood poles under IFB 74 and is described in Annex I.
54.  Inconsistencies Between Needed Material and Delivered Material. The list of needed
material was based on investment proposals submitted by RECs for appraisal. At the start of the
project in September 1992, NEA had appraised the proposals of 30 RECs and was working on the
appraisal of proposals received from 24 other RECs. Since the first batch of proposals (30) had
been established some time previously, the Bank asked NEA to update these proposals. In mid
1993, while the updating continued and had been extended to all proposals, a preliminary list of
material had been established by NEA and agreed upon by the participating RECs. This list was
basically reflected in the bidding document IFB 72. It was intended to finalize the list of required
material before the award of contracts. At the time of contract award, quantities could have been
corrected within the allowable limit of 15 percent of the bid price for each lot. The updating
continued with the assistance of consultants until mid 1996. The updating led to revised material
lists for the RECs and the revised lists were reflected in the contracts which the RECs signed with
NEA between April 1995 and October 1997. The updating also led to the cancellation of the
schedule for steel poles and associated crossarms in IFB 72 but had otherwise no impact on
IFB 72. As a consequence, the ordered material was not consistent with the material lists carried
in loan agreements between NEA and the RECs. That was of no concern as long as excess
material was within reasonable bounds of up to 10 percent. For many schedules, excess material
was much higher, however. NEA showed the excess material in its material lists under the
heading "NEA Buffer". NEA made no effort to find users for excess material and the Bank only
started to get concemed in November 1997.
H. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
55.  The prospects for project sustainability are uncertain. The project has contributed to the
improved performance of the participating RECs. Significant further improvements will require
major institutional reforms such as the transformation of RECs into stock cooperatives and
mergers of RECs. NEA's new administrator supports the reforms and there are indications that
they may gain momentum. But there is a lot of resistance on the side of the coops and some
politicians which threatens that progress will be very slow, The project strengthened functions of
NEA which would be important in the interested lender concept. But the concept itself is
questionable if the RECs undergo the institutional reforms mentioned above.
56.  Serious problems related to the sustainability of the project are the non delivery of wood
poles and conductors and the excess material, consisting of large quantities of unallocated



- 12 -
material and allocated material which the RECs do not need or want any longer. The non
availability of wood poles and conductors will prevent all delivered equipment from being
installed soon. Insulators, wires, distribution transformers, and hardware are mainly concerned.
The Bank has been informed by NEDA that the Government intends to fund the wood poles and
conductors but no firm  dates could be provided.  Regarding excess material, the new
administrator established a task force in December 1998 to tackle the problem. It is hoped that
the task force will quickly solve the problem but NEA's past performance does not guarantee
that.
I. BANK PERFORMANCE
57.  Identification and Preparation. Bank performance was satisfactory. Strengthening the
distribution sector was not only necessary in view of the weaknesses of NEA and the poor
performance of the RECs, but also because it was obvious that the planned reforms of the
upstream sector, which promised to introduce competition into, power generation, would not fully
bear fruit if the distribution sector remained weak. Furthermore, the Bank had trained staff from
NEA under the Energy Sector Loan. The trained staff promised that. with some support from
consultants, the project would be handled efficiently by NEA.
58.  Appraisal. The Bank's performance had deficiencies. Staff which had been trained under
the Energy Sector Loan had begun with the appraisal of projects, the formulation of performance
improvement programs, and the preparation of material lists and tender documents, but the works
were still at an early stage. Against that background and the absence of a project management
system, far too optimistic assumptions were made. In view of the size of the project - the project
supported 46 RECs - even an efficient procurement agency would probably have had problems
completing all procurement related activities within 18 months. Furthermore, to assume that
delivery would be completed within 30 months was naive in view of the large number of material
schedules; ultimately more than 50. The Bank had trained staff from NEA in procurement related
activities under the Energy Sector Loan and it was unfortunate and beyond the Bank's control
that trained personnel were lost in the wake of NEA's reorganization in early 1993. But since
only 20 RECs were supported under the Energy Sector Loan, whereas 46 were supported by the
project, the Bank should have provided more assistance to NEA in procurement related activities.
In fairness, it must be noted that more assistance was foreseen. It had been loosely agreed with
USAID that the consulting company which was financed by USAID for the capacity building
component would assist NEA with procurement. While it was unfortunate that that was not
realized, it was unwise for the Bank to base the ambitious time schedule on non-binding
agreements.
59.  Supervision. Bank performance is rated deficient. The Bank made efforts to assist NEA
when supervision missions found deficiencies, but the provided assistance was often too little or
too late. The consultant who started assisting NEA in September 1992 could not compensate for
all of NEA's weaknesses. Real progress was only made when additional consultants were
engaged in May 1993. During bid evaluation of IFB 72, only one consultant assisted NEA.
J. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
60.  Identification. The borrower's performance during project identification was satisfactory.
NEA had developed a reasonable investment program for the period 1991 - 1995 which formed
the basis of the project. NEA had also embraced the Bank's reform recommendations as most
convincingly demonstrated by the Statement of Operating Policy which was approved by NEA's
Board in November 1991.



- 13 -
61.  Implementation. The borrower's performance during project implementation was highly
unsatisfactory during most of the time. NEA cannot be blamed for the delays which were caused
by the change of its management and key personnel in the wake of the general elections in 1992.
Every institution would have been hurt by the loss of trained personnel in project evaluation and
procurement. But NEA has to assume responsibility for poor project management, no drive for
results, and puzzling award recommendations.
K. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
62.  The project outcome is rated unsatisfactory because the objectives have only been partly
achieved. The excess material problem could have even justified a highly unsatisfactory rating.
But the Bank is confident that the establishment of a task force, which was done by NEA's new
administrator in December 1998, will soon solve the problem. All material is standard material
and it should, therefore, not be a big problem to find users. In fact, the Bank learned from the
coops, during the supervision missions in November 1997 and November 1998, that there are a
number of coops which would like to be allocated excess material.
L. FUTURE OPERATION
63.  NEA has agreed to inform the Bank at the end of each quarter about the status of utilization
of delivered material. Staff at the resident mission will occasionally visit NEA to check the
material utilization schedule. Staff from RMP may also visit staging areas or participating RECs
if missions made for other projects bring them into the corresponding areas. Supervision
missions for the Bank's still ongoing projects will be used to monitor operation, mainly through
contacts with NEA. The ongoing projects are the Leyte - Luzon Geothermal Project (Loan 3746
and 3746) which will be closed in June 1999, the Leyte - Cebu Geothermal Project (Loan 3700)
with September 1999 as the closing date, and the Transmission Grid Reinforcement Project (Loan
3996 and 3997) which will be closed in December 2000.
M. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
64.  Projects with highly politicized agencies such as NEA, where the risk is high that even key
operational personnel will be changed after general elections should not be initiated shortly
before such elections. Altematively, commitments should be obtained from the borrower that key
personnel will not be changed.
65.  At the time of Board presentation, at least the first bidding document should be available.
66.  A project implementation unit should be in place at the beginning of a project. The unit
should be staffed adequately or the project director should be authorized to assign personnel from
other departments for certain tasks.
67.  Procurement should be based on a cautious assessment of the capability of the procurement
agency. Two or three small packages should be established rather than one large package.
68.  Consultants which reside in the country should not be selected for assistance in
procurement as they may not be considered impartial by the borrower.
69.  If there are indications that favoritism plays a role, then the Bank should consider getting
out of the project at the first signs, since chances are very low that favoritism will not be present
in the later phases of the project.



- 14 -
70.  Small items such as hardware and tools should not be included in the list of material
funded by World Bank projects if they can be purchased locally.
71.  The Bank's procurement tasks should be shifted to the resident mission.
72.  Time schedules should be based on conservative assumptions regarding the duration of bid
evaluation and delivery schedules. A buffer for delays should be added to the normally expected
duration.



- 15 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Achievement of Objectives
Not
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial      Partial    Negligible    Applicable
x
Macroeconomic policies                                 X
Sector policies                                        X
Financial objectives                                   X
Institutional development                              X
Physical objectives                                                               X
Poverty reduction                                                                 X
Gender concems                                                                    X
Other social objectives                                                           X
Environmental objectives
Public sector management                               X
Private sector development                                                        X
B. Project Sustainability
Likely                              Unlikely                                  Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance
Highly         Satisfactory                Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                         X
Preparation assistance                                 X
Appraisal                                                                         X
Supervision                                                                       X
D. Beneficiary Performance
Highly         Satisfactory               Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                            X
Implementation                                                                    X
Covenant compliance                                                               X
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory      Highly Unsatisfactory
x



- 16 -
Table 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan Title                          Purpose                      Year of      Status
Approval
Loans 2201-PHI 2202-PH     Promote private oil companies in petroleum     1982        Closed
Petroleum Exploration      exploration and strengthen the exploration
Promotion Project          capabilities of Bureau of Energy and PNOC
Loan 2203-PH Geothermal    Improve national strategy for geothermal       1982        Closed
Exploration Project        exploration, government geothermal development
policy and institutions; facilitate private
involvement in geothermal exploration etc.
Loan 2969-PH               Support the least cost source incremental capacity  1988   Closed
Bacon-Manito Geothermal    for Luzon grid; and strengthen institutional
Power Project              capabilities and financial viability
Loans 3163/3164-PH         Orient the development strategy of the energy  1990        Closed
Energy Sector Project      sector-National Power Corporation component
JEXIM component of Loan    First phase of a least-cost energy sector      1992        Active
3163-PH (administered by   development program
The World Bank)
Loan 3165-PH               Orient the development strategy of the energy  1990        Closed
Energy Sector Project      sector-Government component (DOE, ERB,
EMB, NEA)
Loan 3626-PH               Alleviate power shortages in Luzon and          1993       Closed
Power Transmission &       strengthen NPC 's financial viability
Rehabilitation Project
Loans 3700/3702-PH         Development of geothermal resources for power   1994       Active
Leyte-Cebu Geothermal      generation and strengthen the financial viability of
Project                    NPC and PNOC-EDC
Loans 3746/3747-PH Leyte-   Development of geothermal resources for power  1994       Active
Luzon Geothermal Project   generation and strengthen the financial viability of
NPC and PNOC-EDC
Loans 3996/3997-PH         Support the Government's plan to restructure and  1996     Active
Transmission Grid          privatize the National Power Corporation.
Reinforcement Project



- 17 -
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle        Date planned                   Date actual
Identification                N/A                            November, 1989
Preparation                   N/A                            April, 1990
Appraisal                     N/A                            March, 1991
Negotiations                                                 December 9-12, 1991
Board presentation            September, 1991                February 25, 1992
Signing                       N/A                            June 3, 1992
Effectiveness                 N/A                            October 22, 1992
Project completion            June 30, 1996                  Still ongoing
Loan closing                  December 31, 1996              April 30, 1998
Table 4: LoAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
Bank FY                         FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98  FY99
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)   2.0     8.0   23.0   58.0   86.0   91.3   91.3   91.3
Revised estimates (US$ million)            2.0    8.0    18.0   24.5    48.0   84.0   91.3
Actual (US$ million)                                       2.0    17.3   45.0   55.3    54.6
Actual as percent of appraisal                             3.4   20.1   49.3   60.6    59.8
estimate.                          I_I
Actual as percent of revised est.    __11.1   70.6    93.8   65.8    59.8
Comment
Actual cumulated disbursements in FY99 reflect cumulated disbursements as of December 31,1998. Difference
between FY98 and FY99 values mainly due to refund of US$ 0.9 million from Special Account.



- 18 -
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicators                          Appraisal estimate         Actual              Comparison
REC Distribution System
International Tendering            First tender         Single tender only.   Delay of more than two
completed in first  Issued in early 1994    years when excluding
quarter of 1992;    (IFB 72). Bid         rebidding and using the
second tender in mid  evaluation completed   planned completion of
1993                in August 1995.       the second tender as
reference date,
Rebidding under IFB
78 in early 1995. Bid
evaluation completed
in November 1997.
Rebidding under IFB
78 in early 1998. Bid
evaluation completed
in April 1998.
Delivery of materials              From early 1993      From early 1996       Delivery started with a
throughout mid 1994.  throughout April    delay of three years.
1998. Wood poles
and conductors were
not delivered
Substation and Line Design         Mid 1991-Mid 1993.  Started in 1991 but
enormous delays in
delivery often
required changes in
design. Still ongoing.
Line and Substation Construction   1993-1995            Started in 1996. Still
ongoing
Consumer Connection                1993-Mid 1996        Project made no
significant
contribution as wood
poles and conductors
were not delivered.
Support Facilities (Staging Areas)
Tendering                          1992-Mid 1993        Second half of 1995.    More than two years
delayed.
Delivery of Materials and construction   End of 1992 till end    Completion of  Completion of
of 1994.            warehouses between    construction delayed by
May 1996 and         almost three years.
November 1997.
Training and Technical Assistance
Recruitment of Consultants         1992-Mid 1993        Last quarter of 1992
and Mid-1993.
Services                           Last quarter of 1992   Last quarter of 1992
till end of 1995.   till Mid-1 996.



- 19 -
TABLE 6: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
The table reflects targeted and actual values for 1 998 of performance improvement indicators for recipient RECs.
The targeted values are for 1998 Except for losses. the actual values reftect the values at the end of the first six months of 1998.
Actual losses refer to the first ten months in 1998. Losses include electricity use of the coop and are expressed in percent of purchases plus Own generabton.
No. REC                Losses        Days Receivable    Debt-Service Ratio    Current Rabo    Non-Pow. Cost I Cust  Self-Financing Ratio
(percent)                                                                  (Pesos)            (percent)
Target   Actuai   Target   Actual   Target   Actual   Target   Actual   Target    Actual    Target    Actua
Inec             14.00    12.03    30.00    33.00      1.20      2.99     1.10     1.38       779      844        20        78
2 Iseco           14.00    17.88    45.00    47.00       1.20     3.94     1.10     1.98       600      738        20       205
3 Luelco          15.00    19.91    33.00    25.00       1.20     1.68     1.00     1.56       835       884
4 Panelco I       18.00    20 37    44.00    37.00       1.69     1.76     1 20     1.38       799     1,036        20       79
5 Cenpelco        16.00    25.46    48.00    74.00       1.29     0.20     1.38     0.90       605       591        23      (18)
6 Panelco III     18.00    19.30    77.00    67.00       1.20     3.86     1.10     1.34       786     1,181        20       52
7 Pelco III       14.00    19.68    35.00    91.00       1.20      n.a.    1.10     1.41     1,024       837        20     (103)
8 Tarelco I       16.00    20.79    55.00    64.00       1.20     1.34     1.10     1.07       770       807        20       76
9 Zameco I        16.00    25.71    31.00    80.00       1.23      n.a.    1.05     1.16       889       914        20     (204)
10 Zameco II       16.00    20.96    37.00    44.00      1.73      1.79     2.88     1.32     1,127     1.056       20       272
11 Aurelco         10.00    10.16    67.00    75.00      1.57      1.80     2.48     9.36       965     1.104
12 Batelec I       16.00    14.35    49.00    53.00      2.13      1.92     1.37     1.28       837      851         33       55
13 Fleco           16.00    23.96    30.00    87.00      1.23      0.47     1.00     0.54     1,034     1,141        20      445
14 Quezelco I     12.00    12.22    32.00    48.00       1.93     1.20     3.23     2.22     1,128     1,234
15 Canoreco        10.00    14.76    74.00   124.00      1.83      1.00     1.73     1.83     1,748     1,607       20        56
16 Casureco I      12.00    18.24    31.00    59.00      1.58      0.56     1.58     1.02     1.417     1,076       20       (24)
17 Casureco II     14.00    18.17    58.00    71.00      1.15      2.29     2.32     2.80       878     1,995       25       104
18 Casureco III    14.00    18.96    45.00    94.00      2.21      0.39     3.30     0.59     1,139     1,475       20       (23)
19 Casureco IV     19.00    20.30    61.00    53.00      1.09      0.89     0.57     0.43       941     1,022        36      309
20 Akelco          16.00    17.81    50.00    74.00       1.20     0.98     1.10     2.87     1,130     1,031        20         1
21 Capelco         12.00    10.21    37.00    51.00       1.20     1.18     1.00     3.51       770     1,202        20        38
22 lleco I         12.00    12.78    37.00    34.00       1.20     3.58     1.10     3.37       770     1,248        20       97
23 lleco II        12.00    15.45    36.00    62.00       1.20     2.02     1.00      1.61      770     1,194        20        68
24 Ceneco          14.00    15.82    46.00    70.00      2.45      1.35     1.99     1.34     1,170     1,792
25 Vresco          13.12    17.80    31.00    53.00       1.28     1.16     1.80     0.19     1,336     1,361        20       37
26 Boheco I        10.00     7.92    32.00    26.00      4.02      0.63     5.28     3.05     1,051       807
27 CebecoI          9.00    10.23    34.00    35.00       1.20     1.11     1.00      1.72      722       913        20         3
28 Cebeco II        4.00     5.64    34.00    35.00      4.99      3.84     2.48     3.16     1,219       954
29 Cebeco III       9.00     6.83    34.00    29.00      1.20      1.41     1.00     1.72       772       944        20       18
30 Samelco II      16.00    16.06    30.00    47.00      1.20      1.56     3.20     0.90       686     1,016
31 Zamelco         16.00    12.80    30.00    47.00       1.22     3.05     1.24     1.72     1,139     1,557        21      182
32 Zaneco          15.00    16.86    32.00    41.00      1.20      2.17     1.10     2.05     1,143     1,086       20       111
33 Zamsurecol      11.00    11.19    44.00    37.00      2.54      2.54     4.03     5.58     1,281     1,425        91      165
34 Zamsurecoll      8.00    11.86    16.00    26.00      1.65      1.99     1.68     2.93     1,128      882        20        78
35 Aneco           13.00    10.69    34.00    41.00      1.39      3.37     2.43     3.08     1,127     1,576
36 Aselco          13.00    10.49    31.00    58.00       1.44     1.67     2.07     1.53     1,430      861
37 Fibeco          15.00    13.76    45.00    55.00      1.20      2.14     1.00     1.34       951     1,058        20      109
38 Moresco I        3.79     6.69    47.00    59.00      4.25      1.98     2.41     1.89     1,458     1.497       41        47
39 Moresco II      16.05     3.81    49.00    94.00      1.50      2.50     1.02     4.46     1,278     1,062        25       48
40 Daneco          11.00    12.16    38.00    59.00       1.20     2.84     1.00     3.59     1,416     1,573        20       54
41 Doreco           9.00      n.a.   46.00    44.00       1.83     1.24     1.38     1.39     1,128     1,173        20        10
42 Dasureco        10.50    10.97    45.00    44.00       1.20     4.32     1.00     2.58     1,270     1,004        20       168
43 Socoteco I      10.00    11.56    37.00    48.00      3.13      2.11     3.28     2.70     1,128     1.270
44 Socoteco II     15.00      n.a.   49.00    52.00       1.20     1.48     1.00     1.46       770     1.725
45 Magelco         12.00    12.24    45.00    57.GO       1.20     2.45     1.10     2.59     1,311     1.336        20       93
46 Cotelco         13.00    17.76    45.00    39.00       1.20     1.48     1.10     2.48     1,080     1,234        20       68
Average         12.97    14.92    41.61     55.28      1.66     1.91     1.70      2.14    1.038     1.156        24        79
Percent Meeting Target    22.7               23.9               59.1              65.2                28.3                74.3
NEA Standard             18.00            45 - 60               1.20              1.00               1,130  notdefined
Percent Meetng Standard    75.0  45 days    34.8                75.0              87.0                54.3
60 days    69.6
Commnent average values are unweighted values except for actual losses.



- 20 -
Table 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study            Purpose as Defined           Status            Inpact of Study
at Appraisal
NEA - PDCP              Reorganization of      Final Report           Finance, Loans and
Banking                 NEA towards            Submitted in June      Accounts Management
Consultancy             becoming an            1997.                  Departments
Project                 "interested lender".                          strengthened.
Technical Assistance    Development of         Final Report submitted  Materials handling in
For Materials Handling   systems and           in July 1996.          staging areas
Phase 2                 procedures for                                satisfactory.
materials handling at
warehouses.
Table 8A - 1: PROJECT COSTS IN MILLION US$
Appraisal estimate ($m)            ActualAatest ($m)
Item                         Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign      Total
REC Distribution System (1)     8.2      63.4      71.6          5.7       38.3      44.0
Support Facilities (2)                    7.0       7.0          1.9       11.4      13.3
Mobile Substation                         2.5       2.5          0.1        1.9       2.0
ZonalRepairCenter               2.0       2.5       4.5             Cancelled
Training and TA (3)             1.0       5.0       6.0                     1.6       1.6
Administration                  1.0                 1.0    Unknown
Total Base Cost                12.2      80.4      92.6          7.7       53.2      60.9
Physical Contingencies          1.2       8.1       9.3
Price Contingencies             3.3       6.7      10.0
Total Project Cost             16.7      95.2     111.9          7.7       53.2      60.9
Interest During Construction    3.0       3.6       6.6          1.3        5.3       6.6
Total Financing Required       19.7      98.8     118.5          9.0       58.5      67.5
(1) The SAR does not provide a breakdown of costs by type of material and no files were found which
indicate how the aggregated figures shown in the SAR were obtained.
(2) Maintenance and utility trucks, lineman's and construction tools, communication equipment, testing and
recording equipment, computers.
(3) Actual values do not include unknown USAID-financed costs of training and TA.



- 21 -
Table 8A - 2: PROJECT COSTS IN MILLION PESOS
Appraisal est. (Peso million)     Actual/latest (Peso million)
Item                         Local    Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign     Total
REC Distribution System (1)    230.0   1,776.0   2,006.0        168.1    1,123.3    1,291.4
Support Facilities (2)                   195.8     195.8         51.3      307.1     358.4
Mobile Substation                         70.0      70.0          2.7       51.5      54.2
Zonal Repair Center             56.0      70.0     126.0             Cancelled
Training and TA (3)             28.0     140.0     168.0                    42.6      42.6
Administration                  28.0                28.0    Unknown
Total Base Cost                342.0   2,251.8   2,593.8        222.2    1,524.5    1,746.7
Physical Contingencies          34.2     225,2     259.4
Price Contingencies            117.0     235.3     352.3
Total Project Cost            493.2   2,712.3   3,205.5         222.2    1,524.5    1,746.7
Interest During Construction    99.0     119.0     218.0         50.6      206.1     256.7
Total Financing Required      592.2   2,831.3   3,423.5         272.7    1,730.6    2,003.3
See the comments made under Table 8A-1.
Table 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimat (I million         Actalatest ($ milion)
Item                             Local     Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign      Total
IBRD                                4.0       87.2     91.3           1.4       53.3       54.6
USAID (1)                           1.0        8.6      9.0                 Unknown
NEA (2)                             6.0        3.6      9.6           2.5        5.3        7.8
RECs (3)                            8.6                 8.6           5.1                   5.1
Total                              19.7       98.8    118.5           8.9      58.6       67.5
Comments:
(1) Actual contribution could not be determined but was less than planned.
(2) Mainly reflecting payments made for transportation from port of entry to staging area and foreign IDC.
(3) Actual contribution estimated at 10 percent of costs of material and equipment for the distribution
system plus local IDC.



- 22 -
Table 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENIEFITS
Projects of 50 RECs are listed in the SAR, all of which had an economic rate of return of 15
percent or higher. Projects which did not yield at least 15 percent were not financed from the loan.
The average economic rate of return of the selected projects of the 50 RECS was 36 percent.
It has not been possible to estimate the ex-post economic rate of return for the following reasons:
a) A lot of material has not yet been utilized. In fact, some material has not even been allocated to
RECS and some material has to be reallocated as the RECs do not need or want it any longer. In
December 1998, NEA established a task force which is expected to soon find users for the excess
material.
b) NEA could not provide an up-to-date list which shows for which projects material has been
utilized. NEA's task force will produce a corresponding list which will be updated quarterly. Due
to the enormous delay in delivery, most of the material has been and xvill be used for other projects
than the ones which were considered at the time of project appraisal.
Most of the delivered material has been or will be used for rehabilitation projects. In Region III,
some material was even used for emergency rehabilitation when two typhoons struck coops in that
region in September and October 1998. The use of material for rehabilitation projects makes it
difficult to estimate the economic rate of return as it is usually impossible to isolate the effects of
rehabilitation projects.



- 23 -
TABLE 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section     Covenant    Present   Original      Revised
Type       status   Fulfillment   fulfillnent
Date         date      Description of covenant   Comments
Guarantee   3.02             11         NC                               The Government has     Not in
Article III                                                  agreed to make the      compliance
necessary annual
budgetary allocations to
ensure the timely
implementation of the
financial restructuring of
NEA.
Project     4.03            05           C                               Borrower shall cause   In compliance
Article IV                                                   Rural Electrical
Cooperatives to maintain
adequate insurance.
5.01            01          CP                              RECs to provide audited   Not complied
Article V                                                    financial statements by    with all RECs.
every September.
5.02            10          CP                              NEA shall review its    Not strictly
Article V                                                    investment program for   followed up by
the succeeding five years  the Bank.
and make agreed upon
recommendations.
6.01(a)         04           C     5/31/92                  Arrange a satisfactory  In compliance.
Article VI                                                   amendment to the
USAID Project
Agreement, not later than
May 31, 1992.
6.01$           05          C                               Tariff Manual shall not   In Compliance.
Article VI                                                   be amended wvithout
prior approval by the
Bank.
6.01@           05          C                               The Statement of        In Compliance.
Article VI                                                   Operating Policy shall
not be amended without
prior approval by the
Bank.
7.01(a)         05          C                               NEA Board of             hi Compliance.
Article VII                                                  Administrators shall
adopt a Tariff Policy
Manual.
7.01(b)        10, 05        C                               Consultants shall be    Study was
Article VII                                                 retained to conduct a    completed mid
materials handling study.  1996.
7.01           05          C                                Consultants shall provide  Assistance ended
Article VII                                                 loan administration      mid 1996.
assistance to NEA.
Schedule        09          CD                              NEA shall fumish the     Complied with
5(l)                                                         Bank a copy of each on-   after delay.
lending agreement
betveen the Borrower
and the REC not later
than one month following
signature.



- 24 -
Table 10: (CONT'D)
Agreement    Section      Covenant    Present   Original      Revised
Type       Status   Fulfillment   fulfillment
Date         date         Description of        Comments
covenant
Project      Schedule        02          CP                               NEA shall ensure that   No enforcement
5(2)                                                        RECs adhere to long-   mechanism
tenn fmnaial          existing.
perfonnance targets.    Financial
performrance of
most RECs
improved,
however.
Schedule       09           C                               NEA shall furnish      Complied with.
5(3)                                                        evaluation reports
covering REC
investment programs.
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
NOT APPLICABLE
Table 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle                    Staff Weeks - Actual          Amount US$('000) - Actual
Through appraisal                              85.4                             257.4
Appraisal-effectiveness                        43.9                             144.1
Supervision                                    87.0                             265.3
Completion                                     10.5                               17.5
TOTAL                                         226.8                             684.3



- 25 -
Table 13: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Specialized staff    Imple -    Develop-     Comments / Type
Stage of               Month/      No. of     Days         skills       mentation        ment              of
project cycle           year      persons   in field   represented /a     status       objectives       Problems
Through Appraisal       2/90         4         5       FA, EC, PE, C
7/90         4         5       FA, PE, EC, C
11190        2         4          FA, EC
3/91         4         12     FA, EE, PE, FA                                Appraisal Mission
Appraisal through       9/91         3         3        FA, PE, EE                                  Post Appraisal
Board Approval
Board approval          9/92         2         2          FA, ED            S              S        Inconsistencies
through effectiveness                                                                               between NEA's
evaluation reports
and subprojects
designed by its
engineering
department.
Supervision             5/93         4         2       FA. PE, EE, C        U             S         No progress with
procurement since
September 1992.
9/93         2         3          F.k PE            U             S         Delays estimated
at up to 18
m*onths.
6/94         1         2            PE              S             S         Timely
completion of
staging areas and
reimbursement of
consignee RECs
urged
8/94         1         7            FA              U             S         Serious slippage
noted.
6/95         1         7            FA              U             U         Extremely
disappointing
progress
5/96         1         7            FA              S             S         Substantial
progress with
procurement.
11/97        3         10        ES, PS, OP         LT             S        Procurement
much behind
schedule. Excess
material problem
identified.
11/98        2         7          ES. OP            U              S        Excess material
problem not yet
solved.
FA: Financial Analyst, PE: Power Engineer, EE Energy Economist, EC: Economist, ES: Energy Specialist,
PS: Procurement Specialist, C: Consultant, OP: Operations Officer



- 26 -                               ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: PROCUREMENT HISTORY OF WOOD POLES
1.    Problems with wood poles started with the default of the supplier who had been awarded
the contract under IFB 72. The supplier notified NEA in May 1996, one month before the
scheduled first delivery, that they would be unable to fulfill the contract. The contract was
officially terminated by NEA on September 30, 1996.
2.     Before the contract was terminated, an additional order for wood poles had already been
included in IFB 74 because in 1994 it turned out that more wood poles would be required than
initially estimated. IFB 74 listed several wood species as acceptable, but allowed bidders to offer
other species provided they were of equal or higher performance than the explicitly mentioned ones.
3.     On February 14, 1996, NEA informed the Bank that it had rejected the lowest bidder on
several grounds, including that a non-acceptable wood species, Chinese Larch, had been offered.
NEA recommended award to the second lowest bidder. On March 8, 1996, the Bank asked NEA to
review its stance pointing to the fact that Chinese Larch is an acceptable species if it meets the
technical specifications. NEA contacted the Forest Products Research & Development Institute in
the Philippines to comment on the suitability of Chinese Larch. The institute provided several
ambiguous and partly contradictory assessments. In view of the unclear situation and complaints
received from the third lowest bidder' the Bank decided in October 1996 to seek the advice of an
expert.
4.    The third lowest bidder had started complaining in April 1996. The complaints were aimed
at rejecting Chinese Larch as a suitable wood species for the Philippines. The bidder had
previously sent letters of complaint in connection with other schedules. Among others, the company
had accused Bank staff of unfair treatment for which no substantiation was found. The company
was the one which NEA had in vain recommnended several times to be awarded the contract for
concrete poles. The company sent letters of complaint to several Bank staff including the President,
the Executive Director of the US, a US Senator, and a US law firm.
5.    The expert who was hired by the Bank provided an ambiguous assessment. But as the
Bank had no strong indications that poles made from larch are not suitable, the Bank gave its no
objection to the award of contract to the lowest bidder on November 6, 1996. On December 10,
NEA informed the Bank that it had ordered SGS, the inspection company, to conduct a pre-award
inspection which was done in the same month. The inspection found no indications that the supplier
would not fulfill the contract.
6.    NEA had intended to have the award recommendation approved on the next meeting of its
Board but an unfortunate fax from the Bank caused further delays. On January 21, 1997, the Bank
requested NEA to carry out a study on the suitability of larch for wood poles in the Philippines.
The results of the study were intended to be used for future procurement activities. But since that
was not explicitly mentioned, NEA was confused and asked the Bank on February 10, 1997,
whether the study was also considered relevant for IFB 74. The Bank did not directly respond to
NEA's question in its fax of March 10 but mentioned that additional issues had been raised by one
The third lowest bidder, a company which had become notorious for its complaints., had in principle
become the second lowest bidder as the latter could probably not have used domestic wood as offered
because of logging restrictions in the Philippines.



- 27 -                              ANNEX 1
of the bidders and asked NEA to submit the bidding documents of the bidder. NEA again asked the
Bank on March 17 how to proceed with IFB 74. On April 17, 1997, the Bank reconfirmned its no
objection.
7.    It was only in September 1997, however, that the contract award was approved by NEA's
Board. Between April and September 1997, NEA had not dealt with the wood poles contract in
order to await the outcome of the study on the suitability of larch. NEA had instructed the Forest
Products Research & Development Institute in the Philippines to conduct the study. In August
1997, the institute concluded, based on samples of Chinese Larch, that poles made from Chinese
Larch are suitable if properly treated. The Bank did not consider this to be a proper study, but that
did not further influence the award of IFB 74.
8.    When NEA's Board approved the recommended award in September 1997, it was made
subject to the condition that a Vietnamese customer of the supplier confirmed the import of wood
poles as stated in the bidding documents. The confirmation, which NEA could already have asked
for 18 months earlier, arrived by the end of October 1997. The supplier was notified of the contract
award on November 10. Problems with the performance bond delayed the signing of the contract
until March 13, 1998. The contract became effective on April 16, 1998 when the letter of credit
was opened. The loan was closed soon thereafter as NEA had not met all conditions for a further
extension. It is not clear whether the contract is still valid. Deliveries were scheduled to start in
January 1999 at the latest but it seems that the supplier will not insist on delivery in view of NEA's
shortage of funds to pay for the delivery.
9.    The technical issue whether poles made from  Chinese Larch are suitable for the
Philippines continued to be an issue in IFB 78. The Bank had recommended that NEA exclude any
larch from the list of acceptable wood species in IFB 78. NEA had done so which led to several
complaints by the company which had won the contract under IFB 74. Letters of complaint were
also received from the company's representative in the Philippines and the embassy of the
company's country in the Philippines. The complaints did not delay IFB 78, however. Bid
evaluation was finalized in April 1998, i.e. within two months after bid opening. NEA had
proposed pre-award inspections as it had well-founded concerns that the poles of the lowest
responsive bidders would not fully meet the technical specifications. The pre-award inspections
were not carried out because the loan was closed soon after the proposal on April 30, 1998.



- 28 -                              ANNEX 2
ANNEX 2: PROCUREMENT HISTORY OF CONCRETE POLES
1     The initial evaluation of bids received for concrete poles under IFB 72 by the technical
evaluation committee showed that company X was the lowest responsive bidder. The PBAC
requested clarifications from the lowest (but non responsive) bidder on the non-compliance with the
technical specs. The bidder responded that components were included in the bid which would
ensure compliance. In October 1994, the PBAC recommended contract award to that bidder.
Between November 1994 and June 1995, the Bank repeatedly rejected the recommended award
while NEA repeatedly argued in favor of its proposal. Among others, the Bank pointed to the fact
that, contrary to NEA's calculation, the bidder was not eligible for domestic preference since they
did not have a manufacturing facility in the Philippines. In June 1995, NEA proposed rebidding.
The Bank agreed, only to learn in September 1995 that NEA's Board did not agree with the
rebidding and recommended contract award to the bidder recommended by the PBAC. Rebidding
was finally done under IFB 74 in autumn 1995. Three bids were received. In February 1996, NEA
proposed awarding the contract to the second lowest bidder, citing that all three bidders failed to
fully meet the technical specs, but that the second lowest bidder only failed by a minimal margin.
The second lowest bidder was the same company which NEA had recommended for contract award
under IFB 72. The Bank sought several clarifications and finally rejected NEA's proposal in April
1996. In May, NEA proposed contract award to the lowest bidder. The Bank gave its no objection
in June subject to the condition that an additional bank guarantee would be provided.
2.    Unfortunately, the additional bank guarantee caused further delays. The guarantee should
have been provided by the parent company of the award winner. In August 1996, the winner
proposed to submit a higher performance guarantee of 20% of contract value instead of 10% as
requested in the bidding document. NEA agreed. The Bank initially rejected the proposal but later
tacitly accepted it. The award winner had enormous problems to obtain the 20% guarantee and
repeatedly asked NEA for an extension of the submission date. It took until April 1997 before the
guarantee was finally submitted. The contract was signed on April 13.
3.    When the loan was closed about a year later on April 30, 1998, almost two-thirds of the
ordered 17,678 poles had been delivered. About two-thirds thereof were not accepted because of
missing holes in the upper section. By the end of 1998, the manufacturer was still busy drilling the
required holes.



Table 1: INCOME STATEMENT  (Million Pesos)
Year ended December 31      1991                 1992                 1993                 1994                1995                 1996                 1997
Projected    Actual   Projected    Actual    Projected   Actual    Projected   Actual   Projected   Actual   Projected   Actual   Projected    Actual  Z
Income
Interest on Loans       312.0    385.8       470.0    532.5       649.0   292.3        970.0   508.3      1,271.0   526.0      1,595.0    577.5     1,783.0   636.2         X
Income from Dep. & Sec.  20.0     47.5        44.0     46.8        71.0    59.3         30.0    72.6         31.0    105.6       83.0    96.6        114.0     77.8
Other Income (1)         28.0      4.7        94.0     42.1        131.0    40.5        177.0    33.7       162.0     35.2       151.0    35.0       155.0    35.9
Total                   360.0    437.9       608.0    621.4        851.0   392.0      1,177.0   614.6     1,464.0   666.9      1,829.0   709.1      2,052.0   749.9
Expenses
Salaries&Personnel      104.0    102.7       114.0    101.2        126.0    93.1        138.0   118.6       152.0    125.4       167.0    150.6      184.0   206.2
General & Administration  57.0    35.9        63.0     73.2         69.0    83.1        76.0    86.4         84.0    103.7        92.0    105.8      101.0    108.3
Interests               326.0    280.7       402.0    280.7        500.0   308.8        595.0   300.2       695.0    299.7       848.0   340.4       940.0    312.5
Deprec. &Amortization     5.0     15.0         8.0     15.5        28.0    16.9         46.0    16.0         46.0     13.5       46.0      16.6       46.0     16.6
Total Expenses          492.0    434.3       587.0    470.5        723.0   501.9        855.0   521.2       977.0    542.2     1,153.0    613.4     1,271.0    643.6
NetIncomefromOperat.   (132.0)     3.6        21.0    150.8        128.0   (109.9)     322.0    93.5        487.0    124.7      676.0    95.7        781.0    106.3
Forex Diff. On New Loans  -                  (32.0)                (78.0)   (11.0)     (165.0)   104.3     (299.0)  (123.3)     (338.0)    19.1      (313.0)   (38.3)      :
Income Tax                                     -                   (17.0)               (55.0)   (12.3)     (66.0)   (14.0)     (118.0)    (6.4)     (164.0)    (2.0)
Net Income              (132.0)    3.6       (11.0)   150.8         33.0  (120.8)       102.0   185.4       122.0    (12.6)      220.0    108.5      304.0    66.1
(1) Including materials handling fees and income from coop support services
Table 2: FUNDS OBTAINED, SUPPORT OF RECS, RETAINED EARNINGS  (Million Pesos)                                                           vt 
Year ended December 31      1991                1992                  1993                1994                 1995                 1996                 1997              >
Projected    Actual   Projected    Actual    Projected   Actual    Projected   Actual   Projected   Actual   Projected   Actual   Projected    Actual
Obtained Funds
Foreign Grants &Aid     689.0    282.8       373.0     13.8                241.8        95.0   273.1         67.0     92.8       71.0    54.1                  17.4
Govemment Subsidies     300.0  2,821.7       250.0    591.0       200.0   524.0         150.0   575.7       150.0   250.4        150.0   482.2       150.0   196.2
Government Equity       200.0
Borrowings                                   731.0                 893.0              1,941.0             2,020.0              1,090.0               490.0
Other                              0.2                  0.0                 (0.0)                 0.1
Total                  1,189.0  3,104.7     1,354.0    604.8     1,093.0   765.8      2,186.0   848.9     2,237.0    343.1     1,311.0   536.3       640.0   213.6
Support of RECs
Subsidies RECs                    85.4                379.9                 101.0               284.2                305.4                191.2                86.4
Customs Duties                   193.0                222.9                 114.9                23.0
Other                             59.9                  6.7                                     306.6
Total                            338.3                609.4                215.9                613.9                305.4                191.2                86.4        C  
Retained Earnings Beginning of Year  (2,475.6)        249.0               1,652.7              2,086.0             2,786.5              2,421.8              2,727.3        t
Net Income                         3.6                150.8                (120.8)              185.4                (12.6)               108.5                66.1
Obtained Funds                  3,104.7               604.8                765.8                848.9                343.1                536.3               213.6
Support of RECs                  (338.3)             (609.4)              (215.9)              (613.9)              (305.4)              (191.2)               (86.4)
Correction Prior Years Earnings   (45.4)             1,257.5                 4.3                280.1               (389.8)              (148.1)              (224.6)
Retained Eamings End of Year     249.0               1,652.7              2,086.0              2,786.5             2,421.8              2,727.3              2,695.8
Comment: StaffAppraisal Report does not provide sufficiently detailed data to allow calculation of retained earnings.



Table 3: BALANCE SHEET (Million Pesos)
Yearending Decem. 31         1991                  1992                  1993                  1994                   1995                  1996                   1997
Projected    Actual    Projected    Actual    Projected    Actual    Projected    Actual    Projected    Actual    Projected    Actual    Projected    Actual
Current Assets
Cash                     946.0    714.0       1,418.0    412.3        577.0   1,227.1       714.0   1,289.7      1,695.0   1,232.1     2,319.0   1,331.7      2,535.0   1,224.0
Matured Portion of Loans  285.0    891.1       369.0    987.5         485.0    984.3        662.0   1,149.9       928.0   1,222.6      1,155.0   1,188.7      1,385.0   1,251.6
Inventories              525.0   1,243.9       307.0   1,389.7        431.0   1,678.5       589.0   1,527.5       520.0   1,101.4       461.0   1,472.7        461.0   1,459.6
Other Receivables (1)     75.0   1,020.4       115.0   1,124.9        160.0   1,233.9       241.0   1,106.8       316.0    825.7         398.0    771.3        444.0    601.6
Total CurrentAssets     1,831.0   3,869.4     2,209.0   3,914.4     1,653.0   5,123.8     2,206.0   5,074.0      3,459.0   4,381.8     4,333.0   4,764.4      4,825.0   4,536.8
Loan Portfolio         5,725.0   9,231.8      6,525.0  10,341.8     7,807.0  10,330.6     9,656.0  11,208.4     10,775.0  11,539.8    11,307.0  12,095.5     11,525.0  12,893.2
Flxed Assets              25.0      21.0        74.0      32.5       402.0      40.2        356.0     38.1        310.0      62.7       264.0      89.6        218.0    248.3
Other Assets (2)                 1,603.7               1,343.3                1,906.7               1,859.5               2,403.3                2,458.0               3,211.7
Total Assets           7,581.0  14,725.9      8,808.0  15,632.0     9,862.0  17,401.4    12,218.0  18,180.0     14,544.0  18,387.6    15,904.0  19,407.5    16,568.0  20,890.0
Current Liabilities
Curr. Portion of Debt (3)  -     3,166.2         8.0   4,225.0         27.0   4,728.1        55.0   5,471.7       222.0   5,617.3        377.0   6,096.9       384.0   6,181.8
Other Current Liabilities  16.0     66.3        22.0      66.4         24.0    116.3         27.0     93.0         23.0      75.7        25.0    137.6          28.0    254.6
Total Current Liabilities  16.0   3,232.5       30.0   4,291.4         51.0   4,844.4        82.0   5,564.7       245.0   5,693.0        402.0   6,234.4       412.0   6,436.4
Long-Term Liabilities      -     6,372.4       761.0   4,760.7      1,722.0   5,263.8     3,796.0   4,602.7     5,746.0   5,049.9      6,588.0   5,227.4      6,878.0   6,589.6
Capital & Surplus
Paid-in Capital        8,093.0   4,636.5      8,093.0   4,675.9     8,093.0   4,951.5     8,093.0   4,970.5     8,093.0   4,970.5      8,093.0   4,970.5      8,093.0   4,970.5
Foreign Grants           827.0    282.8       1,200.0    296.6      1,200.0    538.4      1,295.0    811.5      1,362.0    904.3       1,433.0    958.4       1,433.0    975.8
Govemm. Subsidies        811.0   2,821.7      1,061.0   3,412.7     1,261.0   3,936.7     1,411.0   4,512.4     1,561.0   4,762.8      1,711.0   5,245.0      1,861.0   5,441.2
Retained Eamings       (2,165.0)  (2,855.5)    (2,337.0)  (2,056.6)    (2,465.0)  (2,389.1)    (2,459.0)  (2,537.4)    (2,464.0)  (3,245.3)    (2,323.0)  (3,476.1)    (2,108.0)  (3,721.2)
Other Capital & Surplus            235.4                 251.3                 255.7                 255.6                  252.5                 247.9                  197.7
Total Capital& Surplus  7,566.0   5,120.9     8,017.0   6,579.9     8,089.0   7,293.2     8,340.0,  8,012.6     8,552.0   7,644.7      8,914.0   7,945.6     9,279.0   7,864.0
Total Liab. & Capital   7,582.0  14,725.9     8,808.0  15,632.0     9,862.0  17,401.4    12,218.0  18,180.0     14,543.0  18,387.6    15,904.0  19,407.5     16,669.0  20,890.0
(1) Mainly matured interest on loans granted to RECs.
(2) Mainly forex losses on foreign loans. As of December 31, 1989 the Government has assumed all of NEA's foreign loans, including forex differentials.
(3) Mainly matured portion of NEA's foreign loans; including interests.



- 31 -                              A4NNEX 4
ANNEX 4: AIDE MEMOIRE OF ICR MISSION
(December 7, 1998)
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Messrs. Heinz Pape (Task Manager, EASEG) and
Leonardo Rodaje (RMP) spent some time between November 17 and December 8 on the ICR of
the Rural Electrification Revitalization Project. The mission would like to sincerely thank NEA for
the gracious hospitality which it received from NEA's management and staff during the
supervision mission. The mission is grateful that NEA arranged the meeting with representatives
from rural electric coops in San Fernando and the visit of the staging area in Tarlac on
November 23.
2.    The mission received NEA's Final Evaluation Report which will become part of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
3.    A draft of the Bank's ICR was discussed with NEA. The mission very much appreciates
that, if NEA wants to comment in writing on the ICR, NEA will send its comments to the task
manager not later than Tuesday, December 15, 1998.
4.    The mission is very much concerned about the large quantities of material which are still in
the staging areas. It is understandable that some coops have not withdrawn material because the
material cannot be (fully) utilized without wood poles and conductors. However, large quantities
are also still in the staging areas because the material has not yet been allocated to coops or
because some coops do not need or want certain material any longer.
5.    The supervision mission wvhich was conducted in November 1997 found a serious
mismatch between delivered material and material carried on in the contracts with recipient RECs.
For many schedules, more material had been delivered than ordered by the coops. While excess
material in the order of 5% and, for some schedules, of up to 10% was acceptable, the excess
material often exceeded the acceptable levels. NEA had been instructed to find coops which would
absorb the excess material. NEA had also been told to check whether all allocated material would
actually be withdrawn by the coops and to find users for those materials which coops do not want
to withdraw. While NEA could probably insist on withdrawal in view of the contracts signed by
the coops, an amicable solution of this problem should be sought. Since all material is standard
material, it should in principle not be a big problem to find users. In fact, the Bank learned from
coops during the supervision mission in November 1997 and again this time that there are coops
which would like to be allocated excess material. That only a small percentage of the excess
material has so far been reallocated is mainly due to NEA's lackluster pursuit of the matter.
6.    There are indications that NEA does not even know the exact amount of excess material.
The mission had informed NEA almost six weeks before the start of the mission that NEA should
prepare a list showing for each schedule the contracted, delivered, issued and unallocated
quantities. NEA had not prepared that schedule when the mission arrived on November 17, 1998.
In fact, it took NEA till November 26 before a first list was produced. The list covered 30
schedules of IFB 72 (schedule R was missing) but not IFB 74. A second list, including IFB 74 was
given to the mission on December 3. Surprisingly, for all but seven schedules, the contracted
quantities shown in that list for IFB 72 differed from the numbers given to the mission on
November 27. Regarding delivered material, only three schedules showed identical quantities. That



- 32 -                               ANNEX 4
casts serious doubt on the accuracy of the other numbers shown in the list: the material withdrawn
from the staging areas, the material in the staging areas and the unallocated material. As there is no
on-line connection between the staging areas and NEA's headquarter, NEA's numbers cannot
exactly reflect the inventory and the actual status of withdrawals. NEA is, however, to blame for
not having established a regular reporting system with the staging areas and for poor supervision of
tasks carried out by NEA's staff. The supervision mission in November 1997 had already urged
NEA to improve the communication with the staging areas.
7.    The mission is pleased to learn that NEA has established a task force which will address
the unallocated material issue and the issue that some of the allocated material is not needed or
wanted any longer. In fact, the task force should have been established long ago.
8.    NEA has agreed to submit to the Bank an updated material list within two weeks after the
end of each quarter. The first list will be submitted for the quarter ending in December 1998. The
list will reflect the status of material allocation, delivery, rejects and withdrawal and the inventory
in the staging areas at the end of the quarter.
9.    The mission asked NEA to follow up on the material withdrawn by the coops. Not all
withdrawn material is immediately used by the coops. Most is stored in facilities owned by the
coops before being put to use. The coops inform NEA in non-regular intervals about the utilization
of material. NEA monitors the utilization by checking the proper installation of the material.
NEA's present list of utilized material is far from being up to date. The task force mentioned under
para 7 is understood to also cover the utilization and to produce up-to-date lists. NEA agreed to
send material utilization lists together with the lists mentioned under para 8. The utilization lists
will show for which projects which quantities of delivered material have been utilized. The lists
should indicate whether a project is a rehabilitation or expansion project and whether the project
was foreseen in the loan agreement between the coop and NEA. The first utilization list will be sent
in April 1999.
10.    Bank staff may visit NEA to check the material allocation and utilization status. NEA will
help the Bank to arrange visits of staging areas or discussions with coops when Bank staff
considers such activities as necessary.
ll    The mission was informed by Director Ruben Reinoso from NEDA that the overnment
intends to fund the delivery of the wood poles and conductors which were not obtained from the
project. Funding in the order of approximately US$ 30 million will be required. The mission asked
the administrator to use his well-established relations with the Government to obtain the funds
soonest. NEA should then also inform the participating coops that they will not receive wood poles
and conductors from the Bank-funded project but that the Government will fund . The mission was
surprised to learn that the coops have not yet been informed that the loan was closed on April 30,
1998. The coops still expect the delivery of wood poles and conductors from the project.
12.   NEA has been informed by the Bank that US$ 1,099,337.76 still remains in the Special
Account. The mission urged NEA to refund the amount soonest.



- 33 -                              ANNEX 5
ANNEX 5: BORROWER'S FINAL EVALUATION REPORT
Implementation Assessment
1.    Project Objectives
1.1  The objective of enhancing NEA's effectiveness as the core agency for the sector
through its use of sound processes for prioritizing investments, supervising the
implementation of schemes, and financing of the ECs was successfully attained.
Investment guidelines that provided the framework for an annual planning exercise
and the methodology to be followed for evaluating and prioritizing investments was
put in place. The account management function was institutionalized and made part
of the organizational structure of NEA. Loans administration activities became more
rationalized.
1.2  The application of loan conditionality in the ECs encouraged the needed reforms to
improve their viability and efficiency. A Performance Improvement Program (PIP)
that addressed the areas for improvement in the operation of the ECs was made part
of conditionality to loan NEA extended to these ECs.
1.3  The objective of improving the reliability of electricity supply in the rural areas by
financing a portion of NEA's 1992-1995 investment program was satisfactorily met.
The materials and equipment procured to support this component were installed and
resulted to minimize interruption, correct voltages and lower power outages. Delays
in the procurement of critical materials such as poles and conductors were
encountered which affected the expansion projects but additional consumer
connections were achieved out of he materials procured. The non-extension of the
loan closing date in April 30, 1998 led to the total procurement failure of these items.
1.4  The provision of technical assistance and training to NEA and EC was not sufficient
to equip the borrower and the ECs in implementing the project. The gains realized in
the Banking Consultancy and the Materials Handling Consultancy were very modest.
2.    Implementation and Operation
The project implementation is the responsibility of each recipient EC while NEA supervised
the construction activities. The concept of staging the materials at strategically located
areas was adopted under the project. The approach calls for goods to be stored and released
only when the full complement needed to implement the project has been assembled. This
approach however was modified in such a way that the release of materials will be based on
construction timetable. This approach has minimized most of the materials handling
problems that NEA used to be confronted with. However, because



- 34 -                               ANNEX 5
of the delays encountered in the procurement and the default of two suppliers of wood poles
and conductors, the advantages and gains of the staging concept was not seemed to be felt.
Evaluation of Borrowers Performance
3.    Procurement
3.1  Delays during the start-up of implementation were encountered because of the sudden
change in NEA's leadership. It took some time for the agency to reorganize and look
seriously on the project.
3.2  In order to catch up the lost time, a single procurement approach was adopted. The
volume of materials procured was too much for NEA to handle. This further
contributed to the delays in the procurement because of the volume of bid proposals
received.   Pressure from  losing bidders affected much the evaluation and
recommendation process.
3.3 The shift in the mode of shipment from CIF to DDU made monitoring of materials
deliveries to staging sites and contract administration arduous. Reports from the
staging areas and the ECs were not coming on time in spite of previous seminars
conducted to this effect.
4.    Project Implementation
4.1     The staging sites (regional warehouses) were still under construction when the first
batch of material arrived. However, delivery of goods at the staging areas was considerably
smooth except for the default of suppliers of wood poles and conductors.
4.2     Withdrawal by the ECs of the materials allocated to them was not regular.
Because of the missing critical materials the ECs does not want to withdraw other items
which they cannot use.
4.3  Some ECs were hesitant to withdraw materials coming from manufactureRs with
known or experienced inferior quality especially Harbin meter from China. It took
several months before the ECs were convinced to withdraw the items. The same thing
happened for transformers supplied by Vijai of India.
5.    Loan Appraisal and Administration
5.1  The borrower was able to prepare and fumish the Bank on schedule the required
Project Appraisal Report (PARs) for all the recipient ECs. Corresponding on-lending
agreements were presented to the NEA Board and were approved. The Bank was
fumished copy of these documents.
5.2  Implementation and monitoring of compliance to loan conditionalities was regularly
made.



- 35 -                              ANNEX 5
6.   Disbursement
6.1  As of September 30,  1998 the amount of US$78.7 million (86 percent of the
available loan) have been committed and contracted for the procurement of goods,
civil works and technical assistance. This includes however the amount of US$11.2
million for 4 contracts on conductors where the supplier failed to deliver and
subsequently cancelled. Out of this committed funds, the amount of US$55.5 million
(70 percent of the committed amount) have been disbursed. Overall, the amount of
US$35.79 million of the loan was unavailed at the closing date of the loan. Of the
total unavailed amount, US$12 million represent unavailed portion of the existing
contracts whose delivery period extends beyond April 30, 1998. The US$18 rnillion
represent estimated amount of contracts for rebid but was not completed, as the loan
was not extended. The remaining US$5.79 million represent unprogrammed amount
resulting from the reduction of quantity order and cancellation of steel pole
procurement.
7.    Financial Covenants
7.1 The Borrower was able to furnish the Bank by September of each year its financial
statements as audited by the Commission of Audit (COA).
Evaluation of Bank's Performance
8.    Provision of Technical Assistance
8.1  The Bank was able to identify the necessary technical assistance needed by the
Borrower to effectively implement the project. The project however did not gain
much on the retention of consultants as mentioned in para. 1.4. The materials
handling consultancy contract ended at the time the materials were just arriving. An
assessment as to the need of a follow-up activity along this line should have been
made.
8.2  The hiring of a World Bank Consultant to oversee the procurement process
complicated the bid evaluation process. There were instances of conflict of opinion
between the procurement consultant and procurement specialist in Washington.
9.    Review of Contract Awards
9.1  In some recommendations for award, several communications and exchange of
opinions transpired between the Bank and NEA causing some delays in the
procurement process. The Bank should have been more specific and direct in the
exercise of its role in the review of contract awards.



- 36 -                               ANNEX 6
ANNEX 6: BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR
-v 
Republic of the Philippines
NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION
December 14, 1998
MR. HEINZ PAPE
Energy Economist
Energy Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
The World Bank
SUBJECT:              Implementation Completion Report
Philippines Rural Electrification Revitalization Project
Loan3439-PH
Dear Mr. Pape:
We appreciate your sincerity and vigorous efforts in coming up with a straightforward Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the Rural Electrification Revitalization Project (RERP).
Attached are our comments on the draft ICR which intend to correct some impressions and clarify issues
as indicated in the report.
While the project was implemented during the past administration, it is inevitable that this dispensation
has to address the implications of the enormous problems it has experienced. What we can offer now is
an assurance that all efforts Nvill be made to improve our performance.
Very truly yours,
ATRELLA, Il



- 37 -                              ANNEX 6
COMMENTS ON THE
DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
(Loan 3439-PH)
Project Objectives
We believe that the objective to strengthen NEA as the Government's core agency for
implementing the Rural Electrification program has been successfully attained. The ICR had
mentioned the progress on how NEA evaluates, identifies and selects investment proposals.
While NEA shifted to function as an "interested lender", this has to be balanced with its social
development agent role.
Procurement and Implementation Record
The project admittedly encountered enormous procurement related problems which may be
considered normal taking into consideration the volume and the amount of the procurement
package. In addition to the pressure from business community and the political environment this
agency has to deal with.
The non-extension of the loan closing date because of the unacceptable material reallocation
placed NEA vulnerable to legal suits from suppliers with existing contracts. Had the Bank
considered funding at least those with existing contracts, it could have minimized the effects of
the procurement problems of the past.
All materials procured are pre-allocated. However, due to the necessity to immediately construct
or rehabilitate the EC's distribution lines, some materials were procured by the EC. When
materials procured for the project arrive these will serve as replacement or reimbursement of what
the ECs used in advance. There are efforts to reallocate materials but there are certain loan
procedures to be observed. With the creation of a task force to address this issue, we believe this
will be settled.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
The inconsistencies between needed materials and delivered materials arouse from the fact that
rural electrification projects are very dynamic. Priorities often change when there is a change in
the management. With the lag-time between project identification and procurement, this cannot
be avoided. It is always the intention of NEA to have proper utilization of the materials procured
for the project. Efforts have been made by NEA to reallocate the NEA Buffer Stock even before
the bank started to get concemed. Request from various ECs has been received for this purpose.
The procurement process is well defined and established. NEA in its best efforts had complied
and observed this procedure.
The handling of the sockets for Class 100 kWh meters is an isolated case and is not an indication
of no drive for results. NEA operates under certain audit rules and regulations, it has to comply
with certain control control procedures. thus making decisions take some time.



- 38 -                              ANNEX 6
Outcome and Bank/Borrower Performance
The prospect for project sustainability may be uncertain at this point. With the increased effort in
resource mobilization, we would be able to obtain the support of the National Government in
providing the necessary funds to procure the critical materials needed to sustain the project.
The project outcome may be unsatisfactory but not highly unsatisfactory, as the lack of poles and
conductors affected only the expansion projects. The rehabilitation and upgrading projects are
being undertaken using available materials.
Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
NEA agreed to update the Bank at the end of each quarter about the status of utilization of
delivered material. The NEA management has created a task force to address this commitment.
We support the recommendations outlined in the ICR to avoid what the project had experienced.
It is also worth considering that the SAR defines the organization and nature of the project
implementation until that would be responsible for the project implementation. This can be part
of the condition for effectiveness of the loan the Bank will extend.



1 20:                                                                                        f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-a,  25
18'      120-                               022'                               4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J~     UL AC-A N  ROVINkC
PHILIPPINES                                                          Ilns< 
NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION                                                            ' B-fe
ADMINISTRATION                                                                               '2-0 fri
.20'          RURAL  ELECTRIFICATION                             .                      anSl'&1               20           'q6si'8l      4B2 A
REVITALIZATION PROJECT                                                          -,                                                                                RIZAL
IsO                                     ~~~~~~PROVINCE
RURAL ELECTRIC COOPERATIVE BOUNDARIES                        <7                                     Lawns k'                      IOWE    , MAR50N_
II   PROJECT AREAS                                                      Ba ys                                  c      Ns i--,3          a   c.'
RIVERS                                                      C                                            MANI            k              i
PROVINCE CAPITALS                                      rabayna Chosasl  YiE nb .
lB     REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                                                 4 psi~    Ses  / nOIrn~PaO- - 
------ I PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                      LmAg Cr                Ssg            )                                    <       oa< xnssr    asss-
a8'        _---  - REGION BOUNDARIES                                                       12                182         Man ito                      -    rJnB,,,aaE
Bay                 M        soa                   aaos
._g_             abgdgss'T                                       L           n SAiIt  .9!
Regions and Provinces                                          OTE                 ET A                                /          ;
IlopsosdimnSnFron                                              ;                                                          a                     d                       i  MTRPOLTA
I lbsss gaol,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6,                                              I        4
23 hZ`n'I                                                                                                                                                   Bay
CA     CodleoAniitoieRgo                                                                                                                  57IMETROPOLITAN
CAR  Cordil.                                                                    BaaAdai.iottbenRegi.  b  L                                                            MANILA
8 Apsrs                                                 DEO
~  sgA                                          f              R ao1                                                                                ms-          M-NCIPAL1W
S  i                         LA>f'g>                                                                                                                                 'LUEL 82  Bk|J l Y_l Et >j  i  d1,. L  \< 5/1 losw -~  Mgz  OUNDARIES
16O10nlinPzvcePAN E38                                             CAPTREPROVINCE                                             8BOEUNDARIES
-1- 13       P-,n,                                                                                          16'-t2 lz r ,   d          i .O  >5|8O.z          , Lnwsp a            1w
l3Nu             e               v              Yw:Iu     >]/    ;r- f lo O RO 
11  CPt1 h...        r    lLWo IX   Weslen Mind....W 2             4         M         V        .IIIT9       w            KIj-oS<pll ,LOMETER          4/ S                Z PoLb_
18 B=soaadsyn              sr  Tndacg*etor                                                                    isOaP           Oar',aa,, _?    1%iAs                            12
15  An,', ~          5   B 1
23I CenIrsl LuasellA b                                   b:- 'AsTpsIs'a                      \p<   Uj5y6w1    tELOME217
08, Bas                IXo   VIewers MKndonna       IsAM   s   Gp a= o              r        a TaL                                                                 7a03a Pablnlr=
03  Paosndsns              57  Za',ssa8ae r     ~ 5,  QE                                            14                                                          24'=w       V1 t v
20 Oesb4nVsLsls           X   NrlsernMisMass,           M         ,,ara                  =5   2Csn               @ )vbL   5 p>Cbn= 
12  52ellse.s, Tgolegw        77 T"as   a,a                   Tsse           5'         Cs        CA _: VNl                                                                         12
N.- =sEns5-                          ..sus                                                         l=
88  nssdas,         829  7aaO,ss                                  x33r Prm                                       Sb\)           j;  L 7           
21  J. -          N.rth.rn Mind...          Mr.             3/ar  n                                                                      _a3en
28 Nti.n,1 C          Ppi=l Rginl  -isIsts          Laha,,                                                                           X      MR' 0a C                ,)
IV   S_tsa' Ts_.49' 6 1                                                                                                    T-I
32-- asAl,,              X-  S. L..I Mnd....                                                                  CASI    E CO If
W                                                                                                                                                       S    ,,=;= Ibel==ng a< 
2z  M_(/HN                            RHPCFC,-  6R 47 Xlt S~
34XL    Cassia  -lA23s   ;70__   Anaa 4,1 gal           ",               Misds                -OBECI 
25 C1       S               71  Ag      l 5                            27  "        a     C " Ssa
-X S ';' jS jad Cninal Mind...... D / Si5-3S  ;
6O.N g,,,3A 14 4.-i12- W.4                                                                                   126 40 
35  C-n..d'sS.,            71  I'ng' d'N,j              'aS,,agn,
C-d~~~~~~~ -  '2 'u,.,.', N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 
37  oLa                   73 Sur,,..ssd1IS.,"4
08  Snannas     ~~~APMM  Asbnam-a  Regian af        n9'                                                Arian    LRaI
VI  Wssis- VIB5YBB                MEBBIiI Mindeso ..                                             32 CSbx                                      t2t~na
9, nEss-                   74  Onaa dsld            P.8snga  a-
40  CAn,a                  78  SaL.
20  InIa&N..
W-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
VI   E_tRo Vi-ay-                                      a            C,            ~82                    Ean  4                       o,~)       I         ls8
48  BIaa-                                                                                                                     L.-
50                                                   I a                             sSon
53 ~ ~ ~ 3            2
S-h- L"nag,a                                                                                                                           ANca\7   ~a&
amuoaa,28 -  ~ ~ ~     ~        -  ---  ----     -      -----             -IX ~~~Sulu   Se            d            on Minay a
8'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MA LAY-Si A2  N   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Caan1paa ~~~~~~~                                                                ~d
NOETHPACSFIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xi
i~~~~;lO.   ~~~    -    700IOppOna          *                                       ARMM                 47v~~~~~~~~~~~K4S60B4nI  Saaaa    0~~~~~~
I~~~o~~>Zs.  1'                                                                                               0CcC77ESiJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 657   3780CCDp.19 IY
Philippi20                                                          Cs035o           CS'
M~T A LAS0-AN              -tI 
gscaacas  5,     'Baa8aZ                                                         5              500              200             300 KOLOMESEBS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OO20  30 ILMEER
0   NE.S~~~~~~~~~A"                                               an Ms soap~~~~~~~~~~~~d -ns   n lb.ni Es pa a! W24P/sI Rank Gona, n
'r',a.   )nCASSTRAOA  i1    4'I120'                            122s                               12'                                120                4-'



