s_  V     -9  t  , M/  '        ('I 
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                                Report No. 9810-PH
Report No. 9810-PH Type: (SAR)
SOPHER, J./ X80458 / D-8059/ AS2IE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
DECEMBER 23, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted ditrbution and may be used by rdpients ouly in the performance of
their ofici duties. Its contents may so otherwise be dilosed witout Wodd Bank autfioIze.om



Currency Equivalents
(At Appraisal - March 1991)
Currency Unit            =     Philippine Peso (i)
US$1.00                  =         28
i 1,000                 =      US$35.71
P 1                     =      100 Centavos (Ctvs.)
Weights and Measures
bbi          -     Barrel
m            =     Meter (3.2M8 feet)
kn           =     Kilcrneter (0.6214 miles)
kV           =     Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA          =     Kilovolt-Ampere
MVA          -     Megavolt-Ampere (1,000 kVA)
kVAr         =     Kilovolt-Ampere - Reactive
MVAr         =     Mzgavolt-Ampere - Reactiv e (1,000 KVAR)
KW           =     Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW           =     Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
SW           =     Gigawatt (1,000,000 kilowatts)
kWh         =      Kilowatt-hours (1,000 watt-hours)
MWh          =     Megawatt-hours (1,000 kilowatt-hours)
GWh         -      Gigawatt-hours (1,000,000 kilowatt-hours)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
COA          =     Commission on Audits
DENR         =     Department of Environment and Natural Resources
ECC          -     Energy Coordinating Council
ICB          =     International Competitive Bidding
LCB          =     Local Competitive Bidding
LIB          =     Limited International Bidding
LRMC         =     Long Run Marginal Cost
MERALCO   =        Manila Electric Company
NEA          =     National Electrification Administration
NEC-TS       =     National Electrification Comnunission - Technical Staff
NEDA         =     National Economic Development Authority
NPC          =     National Power Corporetion
NRECA        =     National Rural Electnic Cooperative Assn. (U.S.A.)
OECF               Overseas Economicr Development Fund (Japan)
PCB          =     Polychlorinated Biphenyls
PER          =     Project Evaluation Report
PIP          -     Performance Improvement Program
REC          =     Rural Electric Cooperative
REMP         =     Rural Electrification Master Plan
SOP          =     Statement of Operating Policy
USAID        -     United States Agency for Intemational Development
NEA's Fiscal Year - January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
Rural Electrificaton Revitalization Project
LOAN AND PROJECr SUMMARY
Borrower.          National Electrification Administration (NEA)
Guarantor.         Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:     About 54 Rural Electric Cooperatives (REC) spread nationwide
Amount:            US$91.3 million equivalent
Lending Terms:    Repayable over 20 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:  NEA would relend the Peso equivalent to the RECs on terms and
conditions established periodically for the sector (currently, twenty
years, including three years of grace, at 12% per annum interest).
Project Objectives: The proposed project aims at: (i) enhancing NEA's effectiveness as the
core agency for the sector through its use of sound processes for prior-
itizing investments, supervising the implementation of schemes, and fi-
nancing the RECs; (ii) encouraging needed reforms among the RECs
through the judicious application of conditionality, (iii) improving the
reliability of electricity supply in rural areas by financing a portion of
NEA's 1992-95 investment program; and (iv) providing technical assis-
tance and training for NEA and the RECs.
Project
Description:    The proposed project consists of: (a) an institutional development com-
ponent that includes mainly (i) technical assistance and training to be
provided under the proposed project, and (ii) NEA's application of
discipline to itself through the use of systematic investment and financ-
ing strategies, and to the RECs through conditionality attached to its
future loans; and (b) an investment component that consists of specific
subprojects from NEA's 1992-93 investment program, including:
(i) core system rehabilitation, (ii) distribution system extensions to ca-
pture productive loads as well as residential connections, and (iii) sys-
tem improvements, aiming to improve the reliability of service.
Beneflts:          The main benefit of the proposed project would be the improvement in
the quality of life in rural areas through the widespread availability of
electricity for productive and household uses, with women being prima-
ry beneficiaries. This should, in turn, facilitate a broadening of eco-
nomic opportunity in provincial towns and rural areas in agriculture and
small scale industry.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflicla7 c ties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:             The proposed project is ambitious, and may exceed the capacity of the
RECs to meet implementation schedules or furnish counterpart funds.
The project was designed to enable the dropping of subprojects should
any REC's absoiption capacity be exceeded.
Rate of Return:    36%
Estimated Costs: /a
Local    Foreign    Total
-------------US$ Million----------
REC Distribution Systems                          8.2      63.4       71.6
Support Facilities                                2.0      12.0       14.0
Training and Technical Assistance                 1.0       5.0        6.0
Administration                                    1.0       0.0        1.0
Base Cost                                    12.2       80.4      92.6
Physical Contingency                          1.2        8.1       9.3
Price Contingency                             3.3        6.7      10.0
Total Project Cost                       16.7      95.2      111.9
Interest During Construction                  3.0        3.6       6.6
Total Financing Requirements             19.7      98.8      118.5
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
------------US$ Million-------
IBRD                                            4.1       87.2      91.3
USAID Parallel Financing                        1.0       8.0        9.0
NEA                                             6.0        3.6       9.6
RECs                                            8.6       0.0        8.6
Total                                        19.7       98.8     118.5
Est. Disbursements:   FY92      EY93    FY94    FY95        FY96    FY97
..*---------- --- (S ilo)------- ----------(S flin
Annual                2.0       6.0      15.0      35.0      28.0      5.3
Cumulative            2.0       8.0      23.0      58.0      86.0    91.3
/a   Including duties and taxes of about US$4.3 million equivalent.



- iii -
PHILIPPINES
Rural Electrification Revitalization Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Ena
LOAN AND PROJECr SUMMARY                       ........................................ -i -
1. THE RURAL ELECTRIFCATION SE.CTOR ..-.......................... -
A. Background  ................................................                               1 -
B. Integrated Program  for Sector Revitalization  .......              ..................3 -
C. Recent Remedial Activities . ...................................... -3-
D. Bank Strategy .............................................                                5 -
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement .            .................................. -6-
2. THE BORROWER  ...............................................    -7-
A. Background  ................................................     7-
B. NE 's Role  ...............................................    -8-
C.  Organization and Management .             ..................................-.   -
D. Staffmg  ...............................................                                    -9-
F. REC Performance Monitoring .................................... -10-
F. Accounting Systems and External Auditing ........                ...................- 10-
G. Taxes                    ................................ 10-
H. Security and Insurance Arrangements ............................... 10-
3. THE ELECTRICITY MARKET ........................................ -11-
A. REC Markets ................................................-11-
B. Recent Trends in Rural Electrification .............................. 11-
C. Recent Trends and Forecasts for Project RECs  .......                  ................ 13 -
D. Fu.ture Studies and Improvements in Load Forecasting ..................                 - 14 -
__                              ........ osv:
~ sport ~s pzop.cd by Muurs~ Jml S~pbc. ~tie~a   U~  OlMi~ Ki~eu    a4 Ald
ift4   wo~stdtePi~pnat~a~ta  ~   r~i~    a~   W                             .rriw
~viWl~ M.u~ laaysmiwb~api ~nd~cr 1cit u@~mn~nn
W."Mta        h   owstw~ent~ei.  ii   on  Atn   dZIdsr  n
~er.~s  Divsiw,a ~nt       y.prmz.)u.atn.a   etr    our



- iv -
4. THE PROJECr .                                              ................... 15 -
A. Investment Programming and Project Preparation   . .             15 -
B. Project Objectives ....................  16-
C  Project Description .............. .....- 16 -
D. Projet Design and Engineering    ..                              17 -
E. Techuical Asistance and Training  ..                             18 -
F. Project Cst    ..19.
0. Project Fmancing Plan    ..20 -
HL Procurment   ..21-
L Dhbursement .-23-
J. Project Implementation .24 -
K REC Operational Performance      ..                               24 -
L Project Monitoring    ..                                          2 -
M. Environment    ..                                                25 -
N. Project Benefits    ..                                          25 -
0. Project Risks    ..                                              26 -
S. FINANCE AND TARIFFS ................................-.....- 27 -
A. National Electrification Administration ..- 27 -
B. Rural Electric Cooperatives ..- 36 -
C  REC Tari .- 38--
6. PROJEC EJUSTIFICATION ........................................... -41 -
A. Economic Evaluation of REC Investment Programs .- 41 -
B. Rates of Return on REC Investment Programs .-42-
7. AGREEMENIS TO BE REAC-HED AND RECOMMENDAfTON .43 -
A. Agreements to be Reached .343
B. Recomnmendation ............                                     44 -



Annexes
1.1   NEAr Statement of Operating Policy (without annexes)
2.1   Current Organization Chart
2.2   Transitional Organization Chart
2.3   Staffing Profile (Feb. 1991)
3.1   Annual Formation of RECs
3.2   REC Sales and Customers 1981-1990
3.3   Recent Trends and Forecasts of Sales and Customers for 50 Project RECs
4.1   Project Description
4.2   Outline of Evaluation Reports
4.3   Project Cost Estimates
4.4   Procurement Arrangements
4.5   Disbursement Schedule
4.6   Implementation Schedule
4.7   Generic Performance Improvement Programs
4.8   Schedule of Supervision Activities and Missions
5.1   Histozical Balance Sheet (1986-90)
5.2   Historical Income Statement (1986-90)
5.3   Fnancial Implications of the Bail Out Plan
5.4   Financial Projections (1991-2000)
5.5   Assumptions to Financial Projections
5.6   REC Bulk Supply Costs and Retail Rates (1985-90)
5.7   Tariffs of 50 Project RECs
6.1   Methodology for Evaluating Investments
6.2   Long Run Marginal Cost of Bulk Supply
6.3   Rates of Return of Proposed REC Projects
7.1   List of Documents in Project File
Map
IBRD 23207 - Service Areas of RECs Included in the Proposed Project



1. THE RURAL ELEC:IRFICATION SECTOR
A. Background
1.1       The Philippine rural electrification program was launched in 1960.
It gainod momentum in 1969 when the National Electrification Administration
(NEA) was established to serve as the core institution for the sector. In
1971, when the first Rural Electric Cooperative (REC) was energized, various
investor owned distribution companies were serving about 170,000 consumers
located outside the major cities; by late 1990, the number of provincial elec-
tricity consumers had surpassed 3 million, or about 50% of potential connec-
tions. The vast majority of connections (about 90%) are residential consum-
ers, many paying about P 100/month to consume about 40 kWh/month or less. In
1990, about 1,296 cities and towns and 21,051 barangays (93% and 60% of the
totals, respectively) were electrified.
Sector Structure
1.2       The Government institutions serving the rural electrification sector
include: (i) NEA, which is responsible for formulating and implementing sector
policies and for financing distribution investments for the nation's 120 RECs,
and (ii) the National Power Corporation (NPC), which is responsible for all
but very modest generation facilities and most transmission systems nation-
wide, and wholesales power to the RECs and other distributors. Distribution
for provincial urban centers and most rural areas is provided by the 120 mem-
ber-owned RECs. The Manila Electric Company (MERALCO), an investor-owned
company, distributes electricity to rural areas surrounding Metro Manila. NEA
reports to the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), and has
direct links with the other major energy sector institutions through its seat
on the Energy Coordinating Council (ECC).
Historlcal Context
1.3       From the early 1970s until about 1983, international bilateral as
well as multilateial funding sources provided substantial finance for rural
electrification (about US$20-30 million per year)to NEA. Foremost among these
sources was the United States Agency for International Development (USAID),
which provided much of the impetus behind the formation of the cooperative
system and considerable finance for some of the early projects. Japan's Over-
seas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) was also a major financier of the pro-
gram during the early period. At that time, Government policy emphasized in-
creasing the number of connections, regardless of the economic merits of mak-
ing the investments. Because NEA was lending long term at below market rates,
it met its operating expenses not from revenues but from excess capital and
subsidies. Moreover, as NEA's policies were designed to keep electricity
rates down, the RECs deemphasized maintenance and training in favor of new in-
vestments, for which funds were freely available. As long as funds for cap-
ital investment continued flowing abundantly, the system seemed to be healthy.



-2-
1.4       In mid 1983, forwign funding for the rural electrification program
abruptly r^n dry. By 1984, NEA's loan releases to the RECs dropped to about
US$2-4 million per year. At that point, the serious institutional weaknesses
of NEA and the RECs became evident, and their functional and financial capa-
btlities deteriorated steadily thereafter.
1.5       NEA's review conducted in 1988 indicated that a large propirtion of
RECs faced serious operational and financial problems. Only 22 RECs were con-
sidered to be well managed and financially viable (A rating); for another 24,
financial viability was considered within reach if they made some operstfonal
and coxiercial adjustments (B rating). Of the remaining 71, some 40 needed
substantial remedial action (C rating) and the remaining 31 were considered
either beyond rescue, or salvageable only with great difficulty (D rating).
REC distribution losses averaged 251 (technical losses averaged about 171 and
non-technical, about 8X), but were in some cases as high as 45-501. Theft of
electricity remained common, and maintenance was inadequate throughout the REC
system. The Government's past emphasis on expanston of electrification with-
out sufficient regard for cost, combined with its use of the RECs to implement
costly and economically unjustifiable alternative generation and rural devel-
opment programs, had left many RECs with precarious financial prospects.
Generally, the burdens of past mistakes weakened the RECs' prospects for im-
proving their financial health. In many cases, the RECa' financial problems
could be directly related to managerial weaknesses and interference by highly
politicized Boards in their internal affairs. Even if the RECs as a group
could have been provided with financial relief, some 25-30 among them faced
limited future prospects on account of franchise areas that are inherently too
costly to serve.
1.6       Throughout its history, NEA performed poorly as both a lender and a
provider of technical support to the RECs. It has been unable to implement
programs for the RECs' operational and financial improvement, largely because
its already scanty technical staff has been spread too thin.   NEA's financial
condition is poor; in 1987-1989, its collection efficiency averaged only 36X.
In late 1990, NEA had on its books some P 4.3 billion (about US$150 million)
in loans to finance uneconomic mini-hydro and dendro thermal investments, and
an undetermined smaller amount of loans for social programs for which it has
had negligible prospects for repayment. Overall, NEA had questionable pros-
pects for repaying some P 11.4 billion (about US$407 million) of past loans
raised from foreign lenders and from the Government.
1.7       NEA's weaknesses derived from (i) the past emphasis on expansion
without adequate regard for the financial viability of the RECs; (ii) heavy
investments in ill-conceived alternative generation projects; (iii) numerous
amendments to its charter to broaden its responsibilities; and (iv) a tech-
nical capacity that was too thin to support the breadth of those activities.
These problems led to a lack of clarity regarding NEA's role, and its conse-
quent lack of direction. This lack of a clear focus inhibited NEA from acting
as an effective core agency for the sector.



-3
B. Integrated Progam ibr Sector Revitalization
1.8       In February 1989, the Bank conducted a detailed review of the rural
electrification sector. The findings are given in a report entitled An Znta.
,rAeed PraM  to Revitalize the Sectgr (Report No. 8016-PH; November 9,
1989). The study found that, because of their depth and breadth, the sector's
problems cannot be addressed piecemeal; rather, an integrated program that
addresses the issues comprehensively should be implemented in systematic fash-
ion. The report made the following broad recommendations:
(a)  per'Atlongl LficleicS.  The RSCs need to implement integrated mea-
sures to remedy: (i) excessive system losses; (ii) inadequate main-
tenance and unsatisfactory commercial practices; (iii) deteriorated
core systems; and (iv) obsolescent managerial and technical skills.
(b) Invastment Stratgg.. NEA and the RECs need to develop a strategy
that focusoe, in the medium term, on investments for: (i) rehabili-
tation with infill connections, &nd (ii) expansio-n in selected areas
of hlgh consumer density close to existing networks.
(c)  jrlcLg.  NEA should adjust the RECs' pricing formula to include:
(i) incentives to control operating costs, (ii) funds for future
investment, and (iiI) incentives for efficient consumption patterns.
(d) Restructuring of the RECs. NEA should encourage RECs willing to
implement operating, investment, and pricing reforms by assisting
them to: (i) depoliticize their boards through the addition of non-
elected members of known professional competence, and (ii) restruc-
ture their finances by rescheduling or canceling loans that are
deemed not to be repayable.
(e) Restructurlng of NEA. NEA needs to reorient itself to the role of
lnterested lender. As such, it needs to streamline its activities
by dropping a number of functions that are not directly related to
electricity distribution in rural areas, while strengthening func-
tions that relate to programming, formulation, and administration of
loans and direct engineering services that enable the RECs to imple-
ment investment projects. On the financial side, NEA needs to:
(i) get relief from past loans and other liabilities that it lacks
the capacity to repay; and (ii) implement a workable strategy for
financing the RECs that includes pricing of new loans at levels ade-
quate to cover costs (including provisioning against potential for-
eign exchange risks), and application of appropriate conditionality.
C Recent Remedial Activities
1.9       Shortly after presentation of the Sector Study ze the Government,
NEA's managesmnt took the lead in trying to implement its provisions. The
organizational restructuring of NEA and the RECs, as well as the redefinition
of their interrelationships, can only be formally accomplished through an
amendment to N8A's charter. NEA has already prepared a draft of an acceptable



-4-
new charter and is currently seeking sponsorship for the bill in both houses
of Congress. Meanwhile, the Government and NEA have already begun implement-
ing many of the key recommendations of the Sector Study:
(a) The Covernment has agreed to a financi_l restructuring plan, under
which it would relieve NEA of responsibility for P 11.4 billion in
questionable loans (para. 1.6) over the next two years (pare. 5.6).
(b) In November 1991, NEA's Board approved a Statement of Operating
Policy (SOP) (Annex 1.1), which addresses the main policy issues to
be covered formally in the amended charter. The SOP indicates Inter
all& NEA's intent to confine its activities to lending and services
related to electricity distribution in rural areas, and to use con-
ditionality as the primary means of developing discipline among the
RECs. The SOP has attached: (i) a draft new charter for NEA; (ii) a
Financing Strategy for the sector; (iii) a Loan Policy Manual to
govern NEA's lending operations; (iv) generic Performance Im-
provement Programs (PIP), from which operational conditionality
attached to future loans to the RECs can be derived; (v) guidelines
for formulating and evaluating REC investments; and (vi) a schedule
of fees to be charged for support services not directly related to
NEA's loan generation activities. In addition, the SOP refers to
the development of a Tariff Policy Hanual, which will detail NEA's
policies with regard to the RECs' electricity rates. The annexes to
the SOP were finalized and presented to the November 1991 meeting of
the NEA Board1l. At negotiations of the proposed loan, NEA agreed
that it will not amend, abridge, or repeal the SOP, any annex there-
to, or the Tariff Policy Manual, without prior consultation with the
Bank. NEA Board adoption of the Tariff Policy Manual would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
(c) NEA has made progress toward depoliticization of the RECs by chang-
ing managers and reorganizing Boards to the extent allowed under its
present charter. NEA has already appointed General Managers for
about 54 RECs in the past two years; and in about 12 of those cases,
NEA has reduced the Boards to advisory status.
(') While some of the NEA appointees have been more effective than oth-
ers, the operational and financial performance of the RECs has been
steadily improving during this period. For example, aggregate sys-
tem losses have declined from 25X in 1988 to 21X by the end of 1990;
during the same time, collection efficiency improved from 88X in
1988 to 901 by the end of 1990. And the most significant improve-
ment has been recorded at RECs being managed by NEA appointees.
(e) In late 1990, NEA's Board adopted an electricity pricing formula for
the RECs that includes a provision for self financing of investment.
Since then, it has successfully persuaded about 100 RECs to intro-
duce substantial tariff increases. NEA expects the remainder to
I/    The Loan Policy Manual was amended in December 1991 to include accept-
able long term financial performance targets for the RECs (para. 5.30).



- 5 -
increase their tariffs to the extent required for financial viabili-
ty within the next few months.
(f) NEA has developed an investment program for 1991-95, composed of in-
vestments with a minimum economic rate of return of 15X. That ih-
vestment program forms the basis of the proposed project. The pro-
pos.d loan would finance the justifiable investments for some 54 of
the 120 RECs; NvA expects to finance the justifiablo investments of
the remaining 50-55 viable RECs with funding from OECF and USAID.
(g) NEA has completed the development of generic PIPs (Dara. 4.24) and
has already begun tailoring them for specific RECs in cornection
vith the evaluation of futuie loans to those RECs.
(h) NEA has recognized tnat it will face a major logistic problem as a
result of the expected substantial growth in the amount of materials
and equipment it wi:l be procuring on behalf of the RFC3. It has,
therefore, asked the Bank's agreement to finance from the Energy
Sector Prc'ect (Loan 3165-PH) technical assistance to develop sys-
tems and pzocedures for materials handling at its central and Re-
giona] warehouses. Iucing the diagnostic phase of that consultancy,
NEA would determine whether it will need assistaniice for implementing
the systems to be develojed (para. 4.19).
1.10      In conjunction with the revitalization program, NEA and the RECs
need substantial resources for institutional development. In particular, they
need equipment, tools, fixtures, computers, and training. To accommodate the
urgency of this requirement, a US$5.3 million institutional development com-
ponent was included in the Energy Sector Project. Also, USAID provided NEA
with a US$4.6 million technical assistance grant Inter alla for: (i) the first
phase of a Rural Electrification Master Plan (REMP); (ii) upgrades to the
accounting at NEA and about 43 RECs; and (iii) the development of systems and
procedures for operations and maintenance, commercial practices, and pricing
for those same RECs.  Consultants being financed by the USAID gra   were mobi-
lized in June 1990. Under the proposed project, USAID is plannirg co finance
the extension of that technical assistance (para. 4.9) so that the remainir.g
RECs may also benefit from similar institutional development efforts.
D. Bank Strategy
1.11      The progress made by the Government and NEA in recent months set the
foundation for the full scale implementation of the revitalization program.
Through its agreement to the financial restructuring or NEA, the Government
signalled its commitment that this sector needs to be served by healthy insti-
tutions. The conditions attached by the Government to that restructuring are
designed to institutionalize NEA's new role as an Interested lender. NEA has
invested considerable effo.t in developing the tools to become more effective
(i) as a lender to the RECs, and (ii) as the agent for instilling operational
and financial discipline among its borrowers. Thus, the Bank's objective for
the sector is to support with finance, conditionality, and technical assis-
tance, the measures needed to ensure that rural households and enterprises can



-6 -
*njoy grid supplied *lectric service of high quality at reasonable cost.  In
particular, the Bank should focus on supporting; (a) economically Justifled
znvg#utmnrA, which hove been formulated and developed according to a sound
planning methodology; (b) the continued institutAonal devylogment of NEA and
the & Z[, through appropriate technical assistance and training; (c) the de-
velgoomnt of greater go.rationa1 and financial discioline amon the RECs,
through tho use of tailored PIPs as conditionality to NEA's loans; and
(d) K tionalii   of SEC irGlL, through the implementation of a sound
policy framework provided in the Tariff Policy Manual.
Previous Balnk Involvement In the Sector
1.12      The Bank's only previous loan to NEA (Loan 1547-PH; US$60 million;
1978) financed mainly electricity distribution investments that were initiated
during 1980-82. The project was completed in 1983, and an audit was prepared
(PPAR No. P-5372; June 1985). The project largely met its objectives; how-
ever, (i) some start up difficulties in procurement were encountered, and
(ii) the RECs' financial performance was uneven. In 1989, a US$22.2 million
component of the Energy Sector Project (Loan 3165-PH) was allocated to NEA to
support rural electrification investments. NEA has performed well so far,
experiencing only minor procurement delays at the outset; however, project
construction has only just begun. Also, because the Government wan the Bor-
rower under the Energy Sector Project and NEA received its allocation from the
proceeds under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, NEA has encountered problems with
the operation of the Special Account. The proposed project will benefit con-
siderably from the effort spent under the Energy Sector Project to develop
procurement documents; this should mitigate some of the early delays and inef-
ficiencies related to procurement. The recent REC tariff increases combined
with the PIPs should address the RECs' uneven financial performance. Finally,
since NEA will be the Borrower of the propoied loan, it can manage the Special
Account as needed.
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.13      Through the Rural Electrification Sector Study, the Bank helped
develop a comprehensive, integrated program to address the issues facing the
sector. Moreover, when the study's findings were discussed with all relevant
agencies of the Government in September 1989, the Bank helped in developing a
consensus that the program needs to be implemented broadly and comprehensive-
ly. In the past eighteen months, the Bank has offered guidance and technical
support for NEA's efforts to implement the program. The proposed project af-
fords the Bank the opportunity to continue its close involvement with imple-
mentation of the program by supporting it financially. Moreover, because of
the Bonk's unique understanding of the issues, it is positioned to strike a
balance between the divergent interests of the Government's electric power,
plannUig and finance establishments. Finally, the proposed project will af-
ford tne Bank the opportunity to continue providing high level technical ad-
vice for all phases of the revitalization program.



- 7 -
2. THE BORROWER
A. Background
2.1       The Borrower of the proposed loan will be NEA.  The loan proceeds
will be onlent to finance investment programs of about 54a of the 120 RECs
currently under NEA's jurisdiction.
2.2       NEA's charter (Republic Act No. 6038; June 1969) gives it two pri-
mary responsibilities. First, NEA is the core agency for implementing the
Government's rural electrification policy. Second, it is responsible for
providing support to the RECs in realizing their electrification objectives.
To meet these responsibilities NEA performs two functions: (i) financing of
investments in electricity distribution networks in provincial towns and vil-
lages and rural areas; and (ii) providing technical. assistance and operating
guidelines to the RECs. Over the years, NEA was given a number of other roles
and granted additional powers through a series of amendments to its charter.
Among these secondary responsibilities are: (i) supervision of the RECs' tech-
nical and managerial activities; (ii) regulation of the RECs' electricity
charges; (iii) execution of the Government's alternative generation policy;
and (iv) implementation of certain social programs un-elated to electrifica-
tion. The NEA charter also provided for the organization of RECs to construct
and operate electricity distribution networks throughout the country'.
2.3       NEA's past poor performance has primarily been attributable to:
(i) a loss of institutional focus, resulting from the wide rar.ge of NEA's man-
dated activities; (ii) constrained resources, resulting from the Government's
V    Originally, 50 RECs were slated to receive financing from the proposed
loan; four RECs with small investment programs were added at negotia-
tions (Bohol I, Cebu II, Tarlac I and Iloilo I). While their investment
programs and circumstances had been appraised, some of the data needed
for this appraisal report, specific to those RECs, was not readily
available.
jv   The RECs are organized as non-stock, non-profit membership corporations
to distribute electric power in designated and predominantly rural fran-
chise areas, where they essentially act as regulated monopolies. The
RECs are granted the general powers of a corporation and the members
elect a Board of Directors,for periods of between 2 and 4 years, to ex-
ercise those powers. The Officers of the RECs are drawn from the Board.
Directors can be elected to an unlimited number of terms. The Directors
also appoint a General Manager to be responsible for executing the poli-
cies set by the Board. All households and enterprises within the fran-
chise's jurisdiction are eligible to become members of the REC. Members
contribute a one time statutory established fee of P 5. These membership
fees represent the REC's paid-in capital.



-8-
decision that NEA should borrow foreign exchange and onlend pesos at highly
concessional rates; and (iii) overwhelmed staff, as a result of having to
perform many tasks that did not build on resident experience and often exceed-
ed their technical capabilities. These problems were articulated in the
Bank's rural electrification sector study.
B. NEA's Role
2.4       Following discussion of the sector study, the Government decided to
reorient NEA towards its original responsibilities while reducing the scope of
its other activities.  The Government felt that the RECs could, ln extremls,
obtain technical support from other sources; however, no other institution
could lend to the RECs, generally weak institutions delivering essential
though capital intensive services. Thus, NEA neads to reorganize to play the
role of "interested lender" (para 1.8). This reorganization will require that
NEA (i) upgrade its lending activities; (ii) shed other activities that do not
relate directly to lending or provide support for the RECs capacity to deliver
electricity service; and (iii) charge fees for services that are not endemic
components of loan origination or administration. This reorganization will be
formalized through Congressional approval of an amendment to its charter; in
the meantime, the SOP establishes the framework for this new role.
2.5       Currently, NEA provides the RECs with a number of services that are
not directly related to loan formulation or administration, but which are
deemed essential to the RECs' capacity to function effectively. Foremost
among these are (i) procurement, (ii) materials handling, and (iii) project
engineering. The procurement function is currently being strengthened through
a consultancy being financed by USAID, while the materials handling function
will be strengthened with technical assistance being financed by the Bank
under the Energy Sector Project (para. 4.19).   NEA's retention of consul-
tants, according to terms of reference and procurement procedures acceptable
to the Bank, to provide technical assistance effort in the area of materials
handling is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. NEA's project
engineering service is considered adequate, given the present scope of its
activities.
C. Organization and Management
2.6       NEA is a wholly Government owned corporation.  NEA's powers and
responsibilities are exercised by the Chairman and four other individuals ap-
pointed to the Board of Administrators by the President of the Philippines.
Board members are appointed for six year terms. They meet periodically (usual-
ly monthly) to establish the policies for NEA and to set its overall direc-
tion. Responsibility for NEA's day-to-day management is left to the Adminis-
trator, who serves as NEA's chief executive officer and also an ex-officio
member of the Board. The Board is also responsible for regulating REC tar-
iffs. The National Electrification Commission - Technical Staff (NEC-TS) is a
separate unit that advises the Board regarding the adequacy and appropriate-
ness of REC electricity charges (para. 5.31).



- 9 -
2.7       NEA's Administrator is assisted by three Deputy Administrators,
each heading a major group within the organization. The Technical Services
Group is responsible for: (i) project engineering; (ii) materials handling and
warehousing; (iii) construction, and operation and maintenance; and (iv) al-
ternative energy systems. The COOP Development Group is NEA's primary organi-
zational link to the RECs, and provides them services in the areas of institu-
tional strengthening, performance monitoring, and management systems support.
The Finance and Administrative Group performs all of NEA's own finance, ac-
counting and loan administration functions as well as providing the general
administrative and personnel related services. NEA's current organization
chart is presented in Annex 2.1.
2.8       The current organization has two major weaknesses.  First NEA has a
poor history of loan administration and collections. Second, NEA has not
until recently taken seriously the investment planning function and still has
not developed a loan programming function. In anticipation of its change in
focus, NEA has recently developed a transitional organizational structure
(Annex 2.2) to enable it to (i) implement a disciplined financing strategy,
and (ii) encourage operational and financial discipline among the RECs. As a
first step, NEA created a new Accounts Management Department to execute lend-
ing policies, formulate conditionality, supervise project implementation and
monitor REC operational performance. In addition, this unit will have respon-
sibility for formulating the Evaluation Reports that will serve as the basis
for NEA's future lending to the RECs (para. 4.8). As a second step, NEA will
delegate a number of its activities to its field organization; these include
warehousing, some aspects of REC monitoring, and major repair and maintenance.
Finally, a Strategic Planning unit will be formed to set common objectives for
all of NEA's units, and to coordinate their activities.
D. Staffing
2.9       NEA presently employs about 870 staff, most of whom are located at
its headquarters. A staffing profile is shown in Annex 2.3. Most of the
incumbents in professional grades have technical jobs in electric utility
operations, construction, project engineering, procurement, accounting and
administration. Few of the professionals are experienced in financial opera-
tions, financial analysis, loan programming, or loan administration.
2.10      Following discussion of the sector study, NEA asked if it could
supplement its weak capabilities in these latter areas by retaining a bank or
a major financial institution, under a technical assistance to be financed
from the Energy Sector Project, to provide on-the-job training to NEA staff
and supervisory services in the loan processing and administration functions
over the next few years. NEA's retention of consultants, according to terms
of reference and procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank, to provide
assistance with NEA's loan administration function is a condition of effec-
tiveness of the proposed loan.



- 10 -
E REC Perfonnance Monitoring
2.11      The newly established Account Management Group will have the over-
all responsibility (with day-to-day assistance from NEA's field organization)
for monitoring the performance of the RECs and will tie this review and evalu-
ation directly to NEA'a willingness to make future loans. An a condition of
borrowing from NEA, the RECs will be required to implement PIPs (para. 4.24);
these will provide NEA with a basis for monitoring each REC's implementation
of meaningful activities related to its own circumstances. NEA will continue
to require that the RECs have their accounts audited; over time, it will re-
duce the scope of audit services being provided to the RECs, and requiro that
the REC. employ private certified accountlng firms, where possible and appro-
priate, for the conduct of the financial audit.
F. Accounting Systems and External Auditing
2.12      NEA uses a manual accounting system, which is a dual entry, accrual
based adaptation of the procedures followed by all Government institutions.
With some modifications, the system is acceptable (para 5.17). NEA has an in-
ternal auditing group that establishes internal controls and conducts its own
review of NEA's books. Its accounts are also audited annually by the Commis-
sion on Audits (COA), the government's official auditor. In addition to au-
diting NEA accounts, COA performs management and compliance audits of the
organization. During negotiations NEA agreed to furnish to the Bank by Sep-
tember 30 of each year, its annual financial statements certified by an ac-
ceptable auditor. To facilitate the Bank's supervision efforts, NEA provided
an understanding that it would furnish the Bank with its unaudited financial
statements by May 15 of each year.
G. Taxes
2.13      In 1986, NEA lost the tax exemptions that were built into its char-
ter. It is currently liable for income taxes (levied at 35X of taxable in-
come) and other smaller taxes, and make arrangements with regard to customs
duties on a case-by-case basis.
H. Scurity and Insurance Aangements
2.14      All NEA loans are secured by first mortgages on materials and
equipment released to the RECs. In addition, the RECs must obtain NEA's ap-
proval before assuming other debt obligations. NEA is required to insure all
its property. It has generally complied with this requirement; however, NEA
has not undertaken a rlsk management assessment to determine the appropriate-
ness of its coverage. In the past, NEA has required that the RECs insure
their respective assets but few have complied because of the high premiums.
Under the proposed project, NEA will be expected to comply with the insurance
provision included in the general Conditions; this condition could be met by
NEA's enforcing the RECs' compliance with its existing insurance requirement.



- 11 -
3. THE ELECTRICITY MARKET
A. REC Markets
3.1       Most of the 120 RECI were created during the 1970s (Annex 3.1.
They now provid, electricity to about 1,300 towns (931 of the total), and
serve more than three million consumers. To a degree, the expression "Rural
Electrification" inaccurately depicts the markets they serve; they cover the
entire Philippines, including major cities other than Manila, Cebu, Davao and
Batangas; provincial urban centers; as well as towns and truly rural areas.
3.2       The spread of end user sales among all the RECs and the other dis-
tributors of electricity for 1990 is given in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: SPREAD OF NUMBER OF CONNECTIONS AND NPC BULK SALES - 1990
onnnmectni         GWH     X Conna      X GH
(000)
RECs                      3,185       3,621           52X        161
MERALCO                   2,305      13,381           401        58X
NPC Industrial and
Other Utilities        596    5.927             lOX26X
TOTAL                     6,086      22,929          1001      1001
3.3       Size, whether expressed in numbers of connections or in GWh sales,
varies greatly among the RECs. In 1989, 25 RECs (or 221) had less than 10,000
connections, while 9 RECs (or 81) had more than 50,000 and accounted for 181
of total REC sales. The RECs also vary widely with regard to residential
consumption per customer and total sales per customer, reflecting the differ-
ent degrees of development in various regions. In 1989, consumption per cus-
tomer was less than 33 kWh/month in 29 RECs, while it exceeded 100 kWh/month
in 16 RECs. Those 16 RECs accounted for 401 of total REC sales. The average
of total sales per consumer was 77 kWh/m'-cn (compared with 500 kWh/month for
MERALCO), and the average sales to residential customers was 36 kWh/month
(compared with 170 kWh/month for MERALCO).
B. Recent Trends in Rural Electrification
3.4       The number of the RECs' connections (Graph 3.1) grew very rapidly
during the late 1970s (from 176,000 in 1974 to 1.44 million in 1980), reflect-
ing the Government's ambitious policy of total electrification of the coun-
tryside. Progress remained vigorous until 1983, but then slowed sharply,
owing to (i) lack of funds, (ii) the higher costs of electrifying increasingly
remote areas, and (iii) NEA's mandate to channel investments into activities



- 12 -
other than distribution (e.g., alternative generation). The number of connec-
tions increased by only 4X per year during 1985-90, as against 11.3X per year
during 1981-85. Thus, the Government's total electrification objective was
postponed repeatedly.   Table 3.2 indicates the progress of electrification
since 1980, as well as NEA's current objective for 1995.
Table 3.2: PACE OF ELECTRIFICATION IN REC SERVICE AREAS
(1980-90 and 1995 Est.)
1980195                       1990          1995
12.   x 1    I2.X.           N.,.   X     N2.1.    x
(Est.)
Towns                    934  77X    1,255  921      1,301  93X    1,382 1001
Barangays             10,955  361   19,009  551    21,317  611   24,063  691
Connections (000)      1,441  30X    2,649  46%      3,185  541    3,948  661
3.5       Total REC sales increased by 7.51 per year during 1981-85, and by
9.01 during 1985-90.  During the early eighties consumption per customer actu-
ally declined, reflecting (i) the high pace of connection, which added many
small consumers, and (ii) the severe economic recession of 1983-85. Since
then, with the slower pace of new connections, increases in consumption per
customer became the prime determinant of sales growth. This is illustrated in
Graph 3.1 below.
GRAPH 3.1 - CUSTOMERS & AVG. CONSUMPTION
THOUSANDS                       KWHIMONTH
3500.                                        80
3000-
2500 -60
2000 
40
1000                    220
0                                         0
194 76 1978   1990192    198 196 1988 199
YEAR
NO. CUSTOMERS  -4- KWHIMONTH



- 13 -
3.6       The evolution of the shares of total REC sales by customer category
is illustratei in Graph 3.2. Further details on demand trends are given in
Annex 3.2.
GRAPH 3.2 - REC SALES BY SEC-T-OR
1981                      198
1,400 GWH                 2,6 5 5 GWH
C. Recent Trends and Forecasts for Project RECs
3.7       Past trends for 1981-90 and sales forecasts for 1991-96 for each of
the 50 RECs participating in the proposed project are given in Annex 3.3.
These forecasts are based on separate evaluations of incremental demand from
(i) existing customers, (ii; new connections along existing lines (add-ons);
and (iii) connections being made in newly electrified areas. These trends are
summarized in Tables 3.3 and 3.4 as follows:
Table 3.3: SALES TRENDS FOR 50L PROJECT RECs - 1981-90 AND 1996 (Est.)
1981      198        192s       1996
(Est.)
Total Sales (GWh)                 890      1,157      1,844      2,991
Purchases                       1,084      1,454      2,285      3,392
Loss Ratio                         18X        20X        19X        121
Connections (000)                 941      1,392      1,651      2,007
Consmptn. per conn. (kWh/mo.)   946          832      1,117      1,490
,A   Excludes the four RECs added to the project at negotiations.



- 14 -
Table 3.i4: GROWTH TRENDS AT 51O PROJECT RECs - 1981-90 AND 1991-96 (Est.)
1981-85        1985-go         122Q929
Totel Sales                           6.78%            9.76X           8.4%
Purchases                             7.61%            9.47%           6.8%
Connections (000)                    10.27%            3.48%           3.3X
Conumptn. per conn. (kWh/mo.)        -3.17%            6.07X           4.9%
New Connections (No./year)         112,605           51,881          59,365
Add-ons                                                         38,460
Extensions                                                     20,904
La Excludes the four RECs added to the project at negotiations.
D. Future Studies and Improvements in Load Forecasting
3.8       The methodology for deriving the demand forecast (defined in Annex
6.1, in the context of a general discussion of NEA's overall planning meth-
odology) that provides the basis for the proposed project represents a consid-
erable improvement over NEA's past practices, and the aggregate forecast it-
self, while reasonably conservative, is acceptable for appraisal purposes.
However, NEA can (and should) further improve its methodology for load fore-
casting at the REC level. In particular, NEA and the RECs need to sharpen
their understanding of the dynamics of consumption in newly electrified areas
and thereby refine their market analysis for specific extension schemes.
These market analyses need to focus on factors such as demographic trends,
economic activity, and infrastructure development.  This new emphasis or. mar-
ket analysis is adequately reflected in the Investment Guidelines, which was
approved by the NEA Board as an adjunct to the SOP. NEA will receive the help
needed to upgrade its load forecasting methodology through the technical as-
sistance being provided under the proposed project (para. 4.9).



- 15 -
4. THE PROJECT
A. Investment Progamming and Project Preparation
4.1       Between 1971-83, NEA channeled to the RECs about $20-30 million per
year in loans from official foreign sources. Donor enthusiasm for NEA and its
programs began waning in 1981, and declined steeply as of 1983. From 1984-89,
NEA's most significant lending did not support the RECs' capital expansion;
rather, the Government provided 9 500 million for a Relending Program, whereby
NEA financed the efforts of 25 floundering RECs to meet their arrears to NPC.
In 1989, based on a 1987 study conducted by Price Waterhouse and Co. and the
National Rural Electric Cooperatives Association International Ltd. (NRECA),
USAID made available about US$13 million to support (i) the rehabilitation of
networks in eighteen of the leading RECs, and (ii) technical assistance aimed
at upgrading the accounting, operations and maintenance, commercial practices
and financial performance of those RECs as well as the 25 participating in
NEA's Relending Program. This USAID financing is expandable to $40 million,
and future phases of the project would include, Inter alla, parallel financing
of the technical assistance and training being provided under the proposed
project. Also in 1989, the Bank provided NEA with $22.2 million under the
Energy Sector Project to support (i) the rehabilitation requirements of 12
RECs, (ii) power supply upgrades for eight other RECs, and (iii) substantial
institutional development for NEA, itself. The USAID and Bank financed pro-
jects were intended to serve as forerunners to future lending.
4.2       Previously, NEA used en ad hoc approach to investment programming.
Az NEA received materials and equipment, they were allocated to RECs based on
plans for increasing the number of consumer connections. Under the ongoing
USAID and Bank financed projects, the recipient RECs were chosen from among
the best performers in the country; and the schemes being financed, once se-
lected, were anaiyzed to ensure that their economic rates of returns were
satisfactory. During 1990-91, NEA greatly improved its investment planning
methodology. The framework for an annual planning exercise, together with an
outline of the methodology to be followed and the criteria for evaluating and
prioritizing investments, are set out in the Investment Guideline that is an
annex to the SOP. It provides for the RECs to furnish plans that are prepared
according to prescribed formats, taking account of constraints that had been
advised by NEA. The process provides for substantial discussion between NEA
and the RECs, and consideration of investments within a REC specific and a
Regional context. Ultimately, NEA aims to refine the current process by
(i) delegating greater responsibility for data gathering and analysis to the
RECs, and (ii) developing procedures for verifying the data provided by the
RECs. During negotiations of the proposed loan, NEA agreed to (i) conduct
jointly with the Bank an annual review of its investment program for the next
five years and its investment accomplishments for the last two years, and
(ii) adopt any mutually acceptable adjustments.
4.3       The proposed project identified by NEA for Bank financing involves
schemes included in the 1992-95 investment plans of some 54 RECs; construction
of any scheme to be financed by the proposed loan will have to begin before



- 16 -
the end or 1994. The RECs that would be financed under the proposed project
were chosen at random; they represent a cross section of all RECs based on
geographical distribution, operational and financial performance, and future
prospects. The methodology used for formulating Bank financed investments is
the same as is being used in connection with other donors; and NEA intends to
apply loan terms and conditionality on a source neutral basis.
B. Project Objectives
4.4       The proposed project aims at supporting the revitalization program
by (i) enhancing NEA's capability to function as an effective core agency for
this sector through its application of sound strategies for evaluating and
solecting investments, supervising the implementation of schemes, and financ-
ing the RECs; (ii) encouraging operational and financial reforms among the
RECs through NEA's judicious use of conditionality; (iii) improving the avail-
ability of reliable electricity supply in rural areas by financing a portion
of NEA's 1992-95 investment program; and (iv) providing for NEA and the RECs
technical assistance and training needed for institutional development.
C. Project Description
4.5       The proposed project consists of two urgently needed ccmponents:
(i) an institutional development component aimed at restructuring NEA and the
RECs, and (ii) an investment component aimed at providing urgently needed new
facilities or upgrades to existing facilities:
(a)  The InstitutlonaL Development Component would be implemelited
through (i) application of conditionality on NEA's future loans to
the RECs; and (ii) office equipment, technical assistance and
training to be provided under the proposed project, including a
provision to complete the REMP that was begun with USAID financing.
(b) The Inyestment ComDonent consists of specific schemes from NEA's
1992-95 investment program, and was structured to enable the Bank
to monitor all aspects of NEA's project cycle. Activities being
financed under this component include: (i) system rehabilitation
and reinforcements, including needed upgrades to substations, feed-
er lines, secondaries, branches, and service drops as necessary,
aimed at improving the reliability of power supply and customer
service; (ii) connection of prospective consumers within a reason-
able distance of existing lines; and (iii) economically justified
distribution system extensions.
4.6       The proposed loan would finance the purchase and installation of
materials and equipment as well as services for the following endeavors (de-
tails in Annex 4.1):



- 17 -
(a)  REC Distributio2  Systems
(i)   construction of forty 69/13.2 kV substations of 5, 10 or 20
MVA each at about 25 RECs, and upgrading of about 15 substa-
tions at about six other RECs with the addition of a total of
around 550 MVA of transformer capacity;
(ii)   construction of about 4,300 km of 13.2/7.6 kV three phase and
single phase primary lines, and about 2,500 km of 220/110
volts secondary lines and installation of about 21,000 distri-
bution transformers with a total capacity of around 450 MVA at
about 54 RECs;
(iii)   service materials for connection of around 400,000 consumers,
including service connections, meters and some 1,600 low ten-
sion capacitors (around 100,000 kVAr) at about 54 RECs;
(b) SupRort Facilities
(i)   support equipment, including tools; services vehicles; and
testing, office and communication equipment for about 54 RECs,
and computers for the remaining RECs;
(ii)   infrastructure and support facilities for NEA, including re-
gional offices, buildings at zonal repair centers, a training
center, a workshop, and warehouses, and the equipment needed
for those facilities (including Inter alia computer hardware,
mobile substations, etc); and
(c) Training and Technical Assistance. Consulting services and train-
ing to assist NEA and the RECs in project execution, operation and
management (including upgrading of technical and financial skills).
D. Project Design and Engineering
4.7       The design of rural electric networks in the Philippines is based
on the single phase system used in the United States. Over the years, NEA and
the RECs have gained the necessary competence to perform most of the design
functions themselves. Because NEA's past policies gave expansion of distribu-
tion lines priority over maintenance and repair of existing system, the condi-
tion of many lines has deteriorated to the point where consumers suffer low
and often fluctuating voltage levels and repeated power interruptions. NEA's
emphasis has now shifted to quality of services and the operational and finan-
cial viability of the RECs. Therefore, some modifications have already been
introduced into the design and engineering of recent works. Still, to reflect
the lessons of past experience, further action is needed--including, more de-
tailed mapping, and adjustments to design and operations--to reduce system
losses and raise the system power factor.
4.8       The facilities included in the proposed Project would be construct-
ed in the service areas of various RECs, spread throughout the country (Map



- 18 -
IBRD 232 .7)   To (i) assexs the viability of the selected schemes, (ii) con-
sider the Impact of these investments on the RECs, and (iii) strengthen the
RECs by addressing operational and financial weaknesses through the applica-
tion of PIPs, NEA will prepare a Project Evaluation Report (PER) for each REC.
An outline for these reports is shown in Annex 4.2. Before negotiations, NEA
furnished ten satisfactory PERs to the Bank; during negotiations, NEA agreed
to provide the remaining PERs to the Bank according to an agreeable schedule.
It further provided an understanding that it would complete 20 more by March
31, 1992 and the remaining 24 by September 30, 1992. Each PER will include a
section on environment; where there are no environmental issues, this will be
so stated in the PERu.
E. Technical Assistance and Training
4.9       The technical assistance and training program included in the pro-
posed project would consist of three main components:
(a)  Strengthening the PlannIng Ca2abilit.les of NEA and the REC. NEA's
current planning methodology is adequate for now, when many RECs
have a backlog of justifiable investments. However, the initial
planning exercise has revealed the need to focus more on load fore-
casting, network mapping and design and the definition of technical
parameters. More importantly, future plans will need to rely more
heavily on inputs from the RECs themselves, with ground truthing to
be performed by NEA. To accomplish this, the planning capabilities
of NEA and RECs need to be strengthened, and the network requiire-
ments for the medium term need to be established.
(b) Extendin, tg all RECs the Institutional Asslstance Being Provided
to the Beneficlaries of the Ongoing USAD Proglect. This includes
(i) developing accounting manuals, and providing training to the
users; (ii) adjusting existing budgetary systems to enable the more
effective management of REC operations; (iii) introducing a comput-
erized billing system adaptable to an integrated information sys-
tem; (iv) recommending adjustments to existing rate setting proces-
ses based on the provisions of the tariff manual (para. 5.38); and
(v) developing training to meet managerial, operational, mainten-
ance and administrative needs.
(c) Znal Maintenance Centers. This technical assistance would include
the design, preparation of specifications for the purchase of
equipment and tools, and training during start-up operations for
NEA's seven major repair and maintenance centers (para 4.23).
4.10      Altogether, implementation of this technical assistance and train-
ing program is expected to require about 200 person-months of consulting for
the preparation of documents and manuals, field training, courses and study
tours. USAID, which would parallel finance (para 4.12) this project compo-
nent, is preparing the scope of work and terms of reference for these activi-
ties based on discussions with the Ban*. Procurement with regard to this
component would follow USAID procedures.



- 19 -
F. Project Cost
4.11        The Project's estimated cost,  including physical and price contin-
gencies as well ax duties and taxes, in about US$112 million (based on March
1991 prices). This includes US$95.2 million of foreign exchange, and US$16.7
million in local costs (including US$4.3 million in taxes and duties), Phys-
ical contingencies of 10 are assumed for equipment, materials and services,
based on previous experience with rural electrification projects. Price con-
tingencies for foreign costs are assumed at 3.6X per year throughout the pro-
ject Implementation period, and for local costs at 11 for 1991, and 10 each
year thereafter. The cost estimates are summarized in Table 4.1, and detailed
in Annex 4.3.
IahJ  PROjCr COI  SUMMAY
LOC L    FOREIGN       TOTAL           WCAL   FOREIGN       TOTAL         FOREIGN
(Pe         (PO        (Poe            (U8$       (USS      (US$      EXCHANGE
Millll)     Mllion)    Mllo )         Millin)    MUllon)    Milon)       COST (%)
REC D19TRIBUTION SYSTEMS
RehabilIlsUon             115.0       1034.0     1,149.0           4.1       36.9       41.0           90.0
Addon                      13.0        13.0       1930             0.6        6.4        7.0           91.4
Expans_on                  97.0        5620       659.0            3.5       20.1       23.6           352
Subtota                   230.0      1,776.0     2,006.0            .2       63.4       71.6           68&6
SUPPORT FACIMIES
REC                         Q00        1258       1258             0.0        4.5        4.S           100.0
Mobie Subtation             0.0        70.0        70.0            Q0         2.5        2.5          100.0
Zond Repir Center          560         7Q0        126.0            2.0        2.5        4.5           5S6
NEA                         0.0        70.0        70.0            0.0        2.5        2.5          100.0
Sub-total                  560         335.8      391.8            2.0       12.0       14.0           857
TRANING & TECH-              28.0       140.0       1680             1.0        L0         6.0           83
NICAL ASSISTANCE
ADMINISTRATION               280          0.0        280             1.0        0.0        1.0            0.0
TOTAL BASE                  342.0      2,251.8     2,593.8          12.2       80.4       92.6           86.
Pbhal Con nedcle           34.2        22S2       259.4            1.2        al         9.3           87.1
Pric Contlugenchs         117.0        2353       352.3            3.3        6.7       10.0           67.0
Total                     493.2      2,7123      3,2055            16.7      952       111.9           85.1
INTERUT DURNG                99.0       119.0       21U0             3.0        3.6       6.6            S46
CONSTRUCrION
TOTAL FINANCING             592.2      2,831.3    3,423.5           19.7       93J       1U.S            834
REQURED



- 20 -
G. Project Financing Plan
4.12      The total financing requirement, including interest during con-
struction (IDC), amounts to US$118.5 million, including US$19.7 million in
local funds and US$98.8 million in foreign exchange. A proposed Bank loan of
US$91.3 million equivalent would finance about 88X of the foreign exchange re-
quirement and 20X of the local cost, together representing of about 851 of the
total net of local taxes and duties and IDC. The proposed Bank loan of
US$91.3 million would be lent to NEA for 20 years, including five years of
grace on repayment of principal, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate. USAID has indicated a willingness to finance in parallel the training
and technical assistance component amounting to US$9 million and representing
about 91 of the foreign exchange requirements and about 5X of local currency
requirements. At negotiations, NEA agreed that it will arrange a satisfactory
amendment to the USAID Project Agreement, not later than May 31, 1992. The
remaining US$18.2 million, which represents about 161 of the total financing
required (including duties and tares and IDC), would be covered by NEA (US$9.6
million or 8.11 of the total) and b.y the RECs (US$8.6 million, or 7.31 of the
total). This financing plan is summarized in Table 4.2. Should the cost of
materials and equipment purchased for foreign exchange increase substantially,
the scope of the project would be reduced correspondingly; cost overruns in
local currency would be borne by NEA and the RECs.
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
LOCA',       FOREIGN          TOTAL
Proposed IBRD Loan                       4.L           87.2           91.3
USAID Parallel Financing                 1.0            8.0            9.0
NEA                                      6.L            3.6            9.6
RECs                                     8.b            0.0            8.6
TOTAL                                   19.7           98.8          118.5
4.13      An on-lending agreement between NEA and each of the beneficiary
RECs would need to be signed before NEA orders geods and equipment on their
behalf. The amount of the onward loan would be based on the CIF/ex-factory
cost of equipment and material, custom duties and taxes, if any, in-country
transportation (on a cost plus basis), plus an add-on of 51 to cover NEA's
cost of materials handling. Where NEA takes responsibility for civil and
erection works, the loan amount would also include a provision to cover those
costs based on an estimate of either the contract price or force account char-
ges (para. 4.20). NEA has been asked to bring to negotiations a draft of a
generic on-lending agreement for the Bank's review and comment. NEA would
bear the foreign exchange risk (para 5.12). The parameters of onlending are
discussed in paras. 5.15 and 5.22 (a). At negotiations, NEA agreed that it
will furnish to the Bank a copy of each on-lending agreement not later than
one month following its signature.



- 21 -
H. Peocurement
4.14      the followin, specific procurement arrangements, summarized in Ta-
ble 4.3, are expected to be followed for the various project components:
Tble 4.: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS Milion)
iTEM                 ICB       LCB    OTHER        NA  TOTAL
REC DlS1RIBMION SYSTEMS
Lne Equipment & Materials        582                                 58.2
(51.1)                             (51.1)
Subsatio Equipment & Materals    23.0                                23.0
(20.2)                             (202)
Construction Wors                                    5.0             5.0
(4.3)           (43)
SUPPORT FACILITIES
Equipment                         93        1.4      3.5             14.2
(&2)     (1.2)    (3.0)            (12.4)
Construction Works                         3.0                       3.0
(2.3)                     (23)
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE                                           73               7.3
(1.0)           (1.0)
NEA Overheads and Other Expenses                              1.2    1.2
Total                            90.5      4.4      15.8       1.2  111.9
(79-5)    (3.5)    (83)       0.0  (91.3)
ICB:     International Competitive Bidding
LCB:     Local Competitive Bidding
Other:    Limited International Bidding, International or Local
Shopping, Force Account, and Consultant Services
NA:      Not Applicable: administrative expenses.
No.te:    Figures in parenthesis are the amounts proposed to be financed by
the Bank and exclude taxes, duties and some local charges.
4.15     The following has been agreed with NEA with regard to procurement
procedures and limits:
(a)  Goods: Contracts value at US$200,000 equivalent or more for mate-
rial and equipment needed for the project, amounting to US$79.0
million in the aggregate, would be procured on the basis of Inter-
national Competitive Bidding (ICB) according to Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement. Local suppliers competing for the supply of goods



- 22
under ICB would have a preference of 15 or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is less. Purchases of minor quantities of materi-
als, tools, and equipment not exceeding US$200,000 per contract
(except for spares), or US$3,500,0C) in the aggregate, could be
procured according to either LIB, LCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank, or direct contracting (in the case of spares). In addition,
purchases of minor quantities of materials not exceeding US$50,000
per contract and not exceeding US$1,400,000 in the aggregate could
be procured using shopping procedures. To meet the implementation
schedule, procurement of the equipment, materials and support com-
modities would be split in three tranches over 1992 and 1993. Each
tranche would include separate packages to be procured under ICB
(Annex 4.4).
(b)  Works  Civil works, mainly the construction of small buildings or
the erection of substations and distribution lines, amounting to
about US$8.0 million, would be widely scattered throughout 40 prov-
inces, and numerous sites. The small size and geographical disper-
sion of these works, often in remote locations and with sometimes
difficult peace and order situations, are unlikely to attract for-
eign contractors; and in some instances, even reliable local bid-
ders may not seek these jobs. Moreover, the project aims to en-
courage the RECs to participate in project implementation to the
greatest extent possible. For theseh reasons (i) about 30X of the
works, consisting of building and substation construction, would be
procured under LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank, and (ii) the
remaining 70X, consisting construction of distribution lines and
consumer connection, would be accomplished through force account,
and not financed by the Bank. The RECs' capacity to use force ac-
count over the years has been satisfactory.
(c) Consultant Servlces: Bank financed consultants would be selected
and employed according to the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants. While USAID would be financing the vast majority of con-
sulting expenditures for training and technical assistance, the
proposed loan includes a small provision (US$1,000,000) to finance
unanticipated, highly specialized consultancies that are consistent
with the project's objectives, and which may arise in the course of
project implementation. In the latter years of the Project, any
portion of that provision that is expected to remain unused would
be reallocated to other project components.
4.16      Bank financed procurement would follow Bank guidelines. According-
ly, prior to tendering and award, the Bank would review all procurement docu-
ments for goods valued at more than US$ 200,000 equivalent; this would cover
802 of the total value of goods. A sample of other contracts for goods and
works - which would be of low value (para. 4.15 (b)) - would be reviewed by
the Bank subsequent to their award. Bank staff have reviewed NEA's handling
of local procurement, and confirm that this is acceptable. Also NEA has
shown, under the Energy Sector Project (Loan 3165-PH), a record of good per-
formance in preparing procurement documents and awarding contracts.



- 23 -
I. Disbursement
4.17      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed for materials
and equipment, construction and erection works, commissioning expenditures,
and consulting fees, as shown below:
(a)  100X of the CIF expenditure of imported material for lines, substa-
tions and support commodities; in the case of locally manufactured
goods, 100l of ex-factory expenditure, and in the case of goods
procured locally, 751 of the expenditure;
(b) 851 of civil works related to expenditure for erection and commis-
sioning, including civil works related to lines, substations, buil-
dings and infrastructure facilities; and
(c) 100% of total expenditure of consulting services, including inspec-
tion of equipment and materials.
These disbursements would be fully documented, except for minor expenditure
for equipment, materials and civil works costing less than US$50,000. In such
cases, disbursement will be made against a Statement of Expenditures (SOE),
the documentation of which will not be submitted to the Bank but retained for
review by visitirg Bank missions. To facilitate disbursements, a Special
Account would be established on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
The maximum amount that would be deposited in the Special Account would be
US$5.4 million, representing an average of four months disbursement. During
negotiations, NEA agreed to have its activities in relation to the Special
Account, as well as the Statement of Expenditures being maintained for dis-
bursement purposes, audited in conjunction with the audit of its annual ac-
counts (para. 2.12). However, the Bank reserved the right not to make the
initial deposit into the account unless it is maintained in a commercial bank
that allows NEA to have direct access to the funds therein.
4.18      Disbursements are expected to be concluded by December 31, 1996,
one year after the expected completion of the project. The additional year
would allow adequate time for releasing contractors' retentions and processing
withdrawal applications. In addition, as power distribution investments fol-
low a dynamic process, the pattern of expenditures would be monitored closely
so that any undisbursed funds could be applied to suddenly arising justifiable
schemes that meet the objectives of the proposed project, following consulta-
tions with the Bank. An estimated schedule of disbursements together with a
comparison with the standard country disbursement profile is given in Annex
4.5. For the first four years, the expected disbursements for the proposed
project follow the standard profile for the Philippines. However, although
that standard profile indicates an 8-year period for full disbursements, the
proposed loan is expected to be disbursed within six years given (i) the time-
slice (1992-95) definition of the project, (ii) the satisfactory performance
of NEA regarding procurement in the previous projects, (iii) the fact that all
equipment and materials being procured under the project are ready made, and
(iv) no major civil works are required for installing goods that are purchased
under the project. Moreover, the earlier Rural Electrification Project (Loan
1547-PH) was fully disbursed within five years.



- 24 -
J. Project Implementation
4.19      While the RECs will be responsible for implementing schemes within
their service areas, NEA will supervise all of the proposed project's con-
struction activities. In the past, NEA has shipped materials and equipment to
the RECs as soon as possible after receipt of those goods at NEA's central
warehouse. This piecemeal approach to releasing goods to the RECs has led to
difficulties in ensuring that agreed schemes were actually built; the RECs
were under great pressure from prospective consumers to put the goods to use
as soon as these were received rather than wait for the complement needed for
a given scheme to be assembled in its entirety. Under the Energy Sector Pro-
ject, NEA will be shipping goods as they arrive to warehouses strategically
located to serve groups of RECs. At those warehouses, the goods ordered for
each REC will be stored, and released only when the full complement needed to
implement committed schemes has been assembled. NEA would then monitor close-
ly implementation of the promised scheme. This approach will also be followed
for the proposed project. The RECs will only acquire liability for the onward
loans from NEA with the release to them of blocks of materials and equipment.
4.20      Once the materials and equipment have been released, the RECs will
be responsible for their storage and for execution of the construction works.
In general, substation and the backbone distribution networks would be built
by independent contractors. The RECs would use force account to erect lateral
lines from the backbone. In order to perform these tasks, the LECs are being
equipped with the necessary tools and construction equipment under the USAID
Project and the Energy Sector Project as well as under the proposed Project.
4.21      NEA's engineering department would participate in acceptance tests,
commissioning, and review and approval of as-built stake-sheets. The construc-
tion period for each scheme would range between 6 to 18 months, depending on
the scope of the works. An overall implementation schedule, outlining the key
dates for procurement and construction activities, is shown in Annex 4.6. The
proposed Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
4.22      To ensure effective coordination and monitoring of activities among
NEA's departments and between NEA and the RECs, NEA has appointed an appropri-
ately qualified Project Director, who is responsible inter alla for managing
project implementation.
K  REC Operational Performance
4.23      In the past, some RECs have developed notoriously poor records for
operation and maintenance of their facilities and for commercial discipline.
The training and technical assistance program included in the proposed Project
(para. 4.5), addresses some of those weaknesses by imparting needed knowledge
and capabilities to the RECs, while enhancing NEA's capacity to supervise REC
operations. NEA is also developing repair shops and testing facilities in its
zonal maintenance centers. Tools and equipment for these activities have been
provided under the Energy Sector Project and more are still being provided
under the proposed Project. These centers would provide the RECs with various



q5
specialized services (e.g. meter calibration, transformer rewinding), for
which NEA would be remunerated (para. 5.14).
4.24      An conditionality related to its on-lending, NEA would seek the
RECs' agreement to implement three year PIPs, specifically tailored for each
REC, aimed at their implementing specific measures to (i) reduce non-power
costs; (ii) reduce technical and non-technical losses; and (iii) improve col-
lection efficiency. A generic program of typical measures has been prepared
by NEA and reviewed by the Bank (Annex 4.7). This generic program is an ad-
junct to NEA's SOP.
L Project Monitoring
4.25      Project implementation would be monitored by NEA.  NEA will furnish
to the Bank quarterly progress report that cover the status of procurement,
contract execution, physical progress, project costs, disbursements and admin-
istration of the proposed project. It would also provide an annual report on
the operating performance of the RECs. This annual report would discuss Inter
alla for each REC: (i) system losses; (ii) collection efficiency; (iii) non-
power cost; (iv) the customer per employee ratio; and (v) realization of its
financial performance targets (para. 5.30). The Bank would also supervise
project implementation through field missions; a tentative schedule for super-
vision activities and missions is summarized In Annex 4.8. Following the com-
missioning of schemes, NEA would require that the RECs provide Project Comple-
tion Reports detailing their implementation experience. These reports would
be furnished to the Bank upon request. Finally, following completion of the
proposed Project, NEA would furnish to the Bank a Project Completion Report,
summarizing the project's execution, initial operation, actual project cost
and benefits, NEA's and the RECs' performance, and the realization of the
project's objectives.
M. Environment
4.26      The proposed project is not expected to pose environmental prob-
lems. The rehabilitation and system reliability components involve adjust-
ments to systems already in place. While the system extension and power sup-
ply reliability components do envision some new works, these involve low volt-
age networks that would follow existing infrastructure in thinly populated
areas. Where substations are to be upgraded, NEA has indicated that trans-
formers containing PCB will be disposed of safely. In general, the technical
standards followed by the RECs were adapted from those used in the United
States, where environmental impact has been a key concern; still, NEA will
arrange for preparation of ar Environmental Impact Assessment wherever net-
works are extended through forests or wetlands.
N. Project Benefits
4.27      The main benefit of the proposed project would be the improvement
in the quality of life in rural areas through the widespread availability of



- 26 -
grid supplies of electricity for household and commercial uses, with women
being the primary beneficiaries. This should, in turn, facilitate a broad-
ening of economic opportunity in provincial towns and rural areas in agricul-
ture and small scale industry. These benefits would be realized as a result
of the following features of the proposed project:
(a) The lnstitutional and trainIng comRonent is expected to:
(i)   improve the operational performance of the RECs through the
PIPs, which should result in a lower cost of service.
(ii)   improve financial performance of the RECs and NEA through more
disciplined investment and lending criteria and a more appro-
priato tariff policy, which together should enable the sec-
tor's institutions to become more effective at delivering
their service.
(iii)   improve the methodology being used by NEA and the RECs for
planning and network design, which should enhance the quality
of service while lowering the cost of supply.
(b) The Investment cogmonent is expected to:
(i) meot the growth in demand of existing and new customers, and
Improve the quality of electricity supply in the service areas
of the project RECs.
(ii) provide a more convenient source of energy as comparad with
kerosene lamps or diesel motors, and enable the use of life
enhancing electric appliances for newly connected customers.
0. Project Risks
4.28      NEA and the RECs are generally weak organizations that will be at-
tempting to implement ambitious investment programs. In that sense, they may
confront problems in meeting implementation schedules or raising counterpart
funds. In addition, the RECs may not realize financial and operational per-
formance improvements as quickly as desired. At appraisal, the Bank tried
vigilantly to ensure that the proposed Project would not exceed the absorption
capacities of NEA and the participating RECs.



- 27 -
5. FINANCE AND TARIFFS
A. National Electrification Administration
Past and Present Financisl Condition
5.1       NEA's financial performance for 1986-90 is presented in Annexes 5.1
and 5.2 and summarized in Table 5.1:
Table 5.1:     NEA's Financial Performance (1986-90)
(Million Pesos)
1986      1987       1988      1989       1990
Operating Revenue                 263        284        340       306        297
Operating Expenses                231        438       443        473        344
Operating Income/(Loss)             32      (154)      (103)     (167)       (47)
Net Income/(Loss)                   37      (243)      (218)      (84)      (707)
Adjusted Net Income/(Loss)          37      (233)   (1,762)      (670)      (617)
Total Assets                    8,199    11,583    10,695       11,241   12,441
Long-term Debt                  3,447      5,607     5,627       5,556    6,267
Retained Earnings                    2      (231)   (1,993)    (2,663)  (3,280)
Current Ratio                      .94       .80        .74        .64       .73
Debt/Equity Ratio               70:30      75:25     88:22       91:09    93:07
5.2       Except for 1966, NEA has consistently incurred large financial
losses. During 1987-90, NEA's operating revenue was insufficient to recover
interest or other operating expenses. Since NEA accounts for interest revenue
on an accrual basis and does not make provisions for doubtful accounts, the
revenue claimed is substantially overstated. During the period, NEA's delin-
quency rate on interest payments alone averaged about 45X per year; for prin-
cipal and interest together, the delinquency rate is currently about 56X. In
1989 and 1990, despite large subsidies to offset interest on advances that
previously had enabled NEA to meet its foreign debt service obligations, its
financial losses exceeded twice its total revenues.
5.3       NEA was initially organized as a Government corporation with autho-
rized capital of P 1 billion.  Several subsequent amendments to the NEA char-
ter raised the authorized capital to P 5 billion. By the end of 1990, after
the Government had already subscribed about P 4 billion of NEA's capital, NEA
had virtually eroded that capital and was operating unsustainably. Its cur-
rent ratio was less than .75, and its debt to equity ratio reached 93:7.
NEA's cash flow depended on the Government's relaxing the requirement to repay
advances. If commercial accounting practices were applied, many of NEA's out-
standing loans and the interest receivable thereon would be deemed doubtful



- 28 -
and therefore written off. In addition, substantial inventories primarily of
alternative generation equipment have negligible value. With expenses running
far ahead of revenues, current liabilities outpacing current assets, and sig-
nificant overvalued inventories, NEA is virtually insolvent.
5.4       These factors were discussed explicitly in the Bank's 1989 Sector
Study. In its aftermath, the Government and NEA decided to implement a number
measures to put the sector's institutions on a sound financial footing.
These included: (i) reorientation of NEA to the role of interested lender,
with the capability to act as receiver (para. 5.5); (ii) the financial re-
structuring of NEA, and through NEA, the RECs (para. 5.6); (iii) the adoption
of a coherent financing strategy and corresponding policies that will encour-
age NEA and RECs to observe financial discipline, and thus sustain their sol-
vency after being restructured (para. 5.10); and (iv) the adoption of sound
electricity tariff policies (para. 5.38).
Reorientation of NEA's Role
5.5       In NEA's new role as 'interested lender", it intends to act as a
receiver in instances of REC defaults. NEA would therefore focus on the dis-
position of failed RECs, possibly in altered form, rather than on rescuing
those RECs largely for the benefit of entrenched interest groups. The capac-
ity to act as a receiver will substantially alter in NEA's favor its power
relationship with the RECs.
Finandal Restructuring
5.6       On January 24, 1991 the Government formally agreed to implement a
comprehensive financial restructuring of NEA. This will place NEA on a "clean
books" basis, thereby enabling it to address the future development of the
sector free from the financial burdens of past mistakes. Thiq restructuring
plan is outlined in Annex 5.3. Under the plan the Government will:
(a) Convert to equity about P 5.1 billion of advances made to NEA dur-
ing the past seven years.
(b)  Assume the responsibility for all of NEA's foreign loan obliga-
tions, as and when those obligations are due (as of December 31,
1989, these amounted to P 6.3 billion).
(c)  Enable NEA to write off numerous doubtful and uncollectible loans,
or other over-valued assets. These include: (i) P 1.4 billion of
loans to 25 remote island RECs with limited prospects for financial
viability; (ii) P 1.9 billion of loans for inoperative alternative
generating equipment nominally transferred to the RECs, but either
not installed or commissioned; (iii) P 663 million of loans to RECs
for operational alternative generation equipment; (iv) P 558 mil-
lion, representing alternative generation equipment inventory on
NEA's books; and (v) P 592 million of other doubtful assets and
loans on NEA's books.



- 29 -
(d) Direct the RECs to transfer their alternative generation equipment
to NPC. In addition, NEA will sell any alternative generation
equipment in inventory and transfer the proceeds to the Government.
5.7       This restructuring program will cost the Government a total of
about P 11.4 billion. Although this price tag is high in nominal terms, the
fiscal implications are negligible; the Government has been aware, at least
since discussion of the issue in the Sector Study, that NEA had no revenues
corresponding to these liabilities, and therefore no hope of meeting them.
Moreover, NEA and the RECs acquired these obligations as a result of intemper-
ate decisions of the previous Government. No other entity can appropriately
take responsibility for these liabilities.
5.8       This financial restructuring will have two major impacts on NEA:
a)   Reduction of NEA's Cost of Funds. Prior to restructuring NEA's cap-
ital structure consists of P 11.4 billion in debt and 8 893 million
in equity. After the restructuring, NEA's capital base will mate-
rially change to P 6.2 billion of equity and no debt, giving NEA a
0:100 debt to equity ratio and a zero weighted average cost of
funds. Moreover, NEA will be receiving up to US$40 million of fi-
nance originating from USAID and US$22.2 million from the Bank's
Energy Sector Project as equity, thereby increasing its equity cap-
ital by about P 1.6 billion. Current NEA efforts to raise new debt
will produce obligations beginning only in 1993. Thus, NEA's
weighted average cost of funds is expected to remain below 2X for
the foreseeable future.
b)   Healthy Cash Inflows for NEA. While the restructuring will result
in cancellation of P 11.4 billion in loans to NEA, NEA will only
forgive P 3.5 billion in loans to RECs, leaving about P 5.1 billion
in REC loans for which NEA has no corresponding liability. Of that
amount, about P 4.3 billion are current. The remaining P 821 mil-
lion are in arrears, and NEA will be rescheduling these as a one
time measure. While this rescheduling will give the mismanaged
RECs more time to meet their obligations, the related interest rate
will increase sharply from the present 3X to 71 range to 121.
5.9       Although the Government agreed to the financial restructuring, its
implementation depends on: (i) the Government making the budget allocations
needed to enable the agreed conversions of debt to equity; and (ii) NEA com-
plying with conditionality attached by the Government. Those components of
the restructuring that involve NPC's absorption of alternative generation
assets and liabilities as well as the conversion to equity of some advances
are expected to be implemented in 1991. Much of the remainder is due for
implementation in 1992.Y The foreign exchange related obligations will be
absorbed by the Government as and when they mature (declining amounts will
mature through the year 2000). At negotiations, the Government agreed that it
M    NEA's write off of uncollectible loans requires Congressional authoriza-
tion. NEA has already drafted and secured Administration support for
the necessary legislation.



. 30 -
will make the annual budgetary allocations required to enable the timely im-
plementation of NEA's financial rescheduling. The conditions imposed by the
Government are consistent with those of the proposed project. Because of the
Government's commitment to the financial restructuring, all analyses of NEA's
future financial prospects will be formulated net of the bail-out plan.
Financing Strtegy
5.10      In May 1991, the NEA Board approved, as an adjunct to the SOP, a
new Financing Strategy. It includes: (i) treating loan funds as source neu-
tral, and using the average cost of furids as the base for its onlending rate;
(ii) rationalizing the costs to be recovered through the interest rate;
(iii) arranging for provisions against potential foreign exchange losses;
(iv) relieving NEA of the responsibility for lending to support financially
non-viable RECo or economically non-viable projects; and (v) charging fees for
other services that NEA considers it should provide but that are not directly
related to loan formulation or supervision. This strategy, which also in-
cludes financial policies to be followed by NEA, is acceptable to the Bank.
Lending Policies and Procedures
5.11      NEA has compiled a Loan Policy Manual, which is also an adjunct to
the SOP. The manual establishes (i) authorities and limits for lending,
(ii) accountability for loan transactions, and (iii) a loan committee for
evaluating proposed RZC loans. It includes financial objectives and appraisal
criteria, and formalizes the role of the PIPs in developing operational tar-
gets for the RECs. The Loan Policy Manual is acceptable to the Bank.
Foreign Exchange Fund
5.12      NEA's financial distress was the inevitable consequence of the pre-
vious Government's decision that NEA should borrow in foreign exchange and
relend in pesos on concessionary terms. The Sector Study recognized that RECs
lacked the capacity to borrow in foreign exchange or to implement indexed
tariffs. To prevent such debilitating exposure from recurring, NEA estab-
lished in December 1991 a Foreign Exchange Fund. This fund would operate much
like an annuity account, with regular contributions being made to cover antic-
ipated future payments. The amounts contributed would be set according to
estimates of future foreign exchange losses based on expected rate variations
between the Peso and the currencies of NEA's foreign borrowings. The contri-
butions rate will be reviewed periodically to determine whether: (i) the fund
balance is adequate, and (ii) the level of contributions is appropriate. As
NEA intends to accumulate quickly a sizeable balance, starting with 1992 it
will initially allocate about 35X of interest income from all loans to the
fund. NEA's Board has already (i) approved the establishment of the fund, and
(ii) instructed management to use the proceeds in the fund to purchase forward
cover from the Government. At negotiations, the Government and NEA provided
an understanding that resources allocated to this fund will be utilized only
for the purpose of covering NEA against future foreign exchange losses.



- 31 -
5.13      Under the Industrial Restructuring Project (Loan 3287-PH), the Gov-
erNment agreed to provide borrowers of official loans with forward cover
against foreign exchange risk. The fee for this cover is based on the differ-
ence between the prevailing commercial rate for the currency being covered (or
an acceptable proxy in case a commercial rate cannot be established) and the
weighted average interest rate on peso time deposits of 60-91 days. This rate
is adjusted quarterly, in line with the movement of the various reference
rates. At negotiations, the Government agreed that it would provide NEA with
cover against foreign exchange risk for a fee linked to the Weighted Average
Interest Rate for 60-91 day time deposits. The Government emphasized that
this decision was predicated on NEA's passing the cost of this cover to elec-
tricity consumers; therefore, NEA would meet this cost while preserving the
source neutrality of its lending by (i) appropriating a portion of its aggre-
gate interest rovenues to the Foreign Exchange Fund and (ii) using the pro-
ceeds that fund to purchase the requisite cover.
Fees for Support Services
5.14      NEA has been offering a wide array of services to the RECs, includ-
ing engineering and technical services, materials management, warehousing,
training, and financial advisory and auditing services. The cost to NEA of
these services is significant and should not be covered entirely from the
interest rate being charged to the RECs. In connection to its new financing
strategy, NEA has decided to: (i) cover the cost of services directly related
to loan formulation and administration through the interest rate; (ii) charge
for materials handling by adding an appropriate percentage (currently 5X) to
the principal amount of corresponding loans; and (iii) levy direct fees for
its other services. In connection with the SOP, NEA has developed a fee
schedule for those other services, including training, major maintenance and
repair, miscellaneous engineering, auditing, and corporate development.
Onlending Rate
5.15      The Sector Study recommendedV that NEA formulate an onlending rate
that would cover: (i) its average cost of funds, (ii) appropriate operating
costs, and (iii) a provision to protect against anticipated foreign exchange
risk. As onlending would be source neutral, (i) the onlending rate should be
applied consistently to all new loans, and (ii) the provision for foreign
exchange losses (para. 5.12) would be derived from all NEA loans to the RECs,
not just those that arise from NEA's own foreign borrowings. NEA has included
this interest rate formula in its financing strategy. Currently:
(a) Based on the financial restructuring, NEA's current weighted aver-
age cost of funds is OX, and should not exceed 2% for a number of
years (para. 5.8).
W    Philippines Rural Electrification Sector: An Integrated Program to Revi-
talize tbe Sector; Nov. 9, 1989; Rep. No. 8016-PH; Page 87, para. 6.35.



- 32 -
(b) NEA has rationalized the operating costs to be covered by the in-
terest rate (para. 5.14). NEA's costs for these activities are
currently estimated to equate to a spread of 61 to 8X.
(c) By allocating 35X of all interest revenues to the Foreign Exchange
Trust Fund at a time when its own foreign exchange exposure is min-
imal, NEA expects to accumulate a sizeable reserve during the next
three to five years.
NEA's current interest rate of 12X complies with this formula. To manage the
liability side of its balance sheet more effectively, NEA has decided that its
new loans would carry a variable interest rate. The rate would be reviewed
annually, and an adjustment would be applied following the review.
5.16      Since no explicit cost was allocated to the Government's equity in
NEA, this cost based onlending rute contains an implicit subsidy. This subsi-
dy is justified because:
(a) the 120 RECs that borrow from NEA are all financially and opera-
tionally weak. Even with this the subsidized interest rate, nearly
100 RECs have recently had to implement substantial tariff in-
creases merely to enable them !o be financially viable in 1991-92
(para. 5.34).
(b) the RECs are regulated monopolies, with a limited selling price but
costs that can increase without constraint;
(c) given that the bulk of the RECs' customers are poor rural folk liv-
ing below the pcverty line, their service has a social as well as a
commercial value;
(d) the RECs are unable to issue bonds or obtain investment funds from
sources other than NEA, thereby limiting any possible impact of
NEA's subsidized lending on the financial sector;
(e) NEA's new Loan Policy Manual (para. 5.11) includes a provision for
the rate to be reviewed annually, and adjusted as needed to take
account of changes in NEA's cost structure. Thus, as the RECs im-
prove their financial health, NEA would expect to lift the subsidy
from its interest rate; and
(f) albeit that its posted interest rate contains an implicit subsidy,
the fees it plans to charge for services unrelated to lending
should provide NEA with substantial additional revenues. Thus,
notwithstanding the interest subsidy, NEA is projecting healthy
financial performance through 2000 (para. 5.23).
Changes In Accounting Procedures
5.17      The final element of NEA's new financing strategy is the adoption
of changes in accounting procedures appropriate to NEA's new function as an



- 33 -
"interested lender,. Accordingly, NEA is seeking COA's approval to change its
procedures to enable: (i) the ongoing provisioning and write-off of REC loans
that are determined respectively to be doubtful and uncollectible; (ii) the
provisioning for likely losses resulting from foreign exchange exposure on
outstanding borrowings; (iii) the recognition of interest earned by NEA based
on the status of the underlying loans; and (iv) the placement in a suspense
account of the various components of the bail out plan as of year-end 1991.
In addition, NEA indicated it would seek COA's permission to account for the
Foreign Exchange Fund off its balance sheet, since this reserve is essentially
a committed expense once the funds are allocated to the trust.
Financing Plan
5.18      NZA's financing plan for 1992-96 (the 1riod within which project
related expenditures are expected to be incurred) is summarized in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2:     NEA's Financing Plan  (1992-1996)
Pesos Millions              Percent
I.   Internal Cash Generation
(Net of Working Capital Needs)              7,746                    53X
II.  Debt Service (Ex. Payments to Forex Fund)    1L294                       -92X
Cash After Debt Service                   6,452                    441
III. External Financing
Proposed Loan                             3,169                    221
Other Foreign Exchange Loans              3,506                    241
Foreign Grants                              606                     41
Government Contributions                    900 6Q
Total External Sources                 8 181
Total Sources of Funds                        14 63                     1OOX
IV. Loans and Investments
REC Loans Disbursements                     11,770                    801
Purchase of Ass'                            412                     31
Contribution to Foreign Exchange Fund       980                     71
Purchase of Short-term Securities         1,471lO
Total Uses of Funds                           14 633                   lOOX
5.19      NEA's use of the funds for the period will be about P 14.6 billion,
of which 801 represents loans to the RECs. By 1996, net contributions to the
Foreign Exchange Fund will amount to P 980 million, or 71 of its cumulative
financing requirement. NEA's remaining financing requirements are for its own



- 34 -
plant and equipment and the purchase of short-term securities. Combined,
these represent about 13X of NEA's total use of funds for the period.
5.20      About 441 of NEA's investment program is expected to be financed
from internal cash generation after debt service, and the remainder from:
(i) external borrowings, (ii) foreign grants, and (iii) government equity con-
tributions. The proposed loan represents about 22X of the total sources of
funds. Government contributions, which represent only about 61 of total fi-
nance, are intended to finance investments in remote, small island RECs. Ths
V 606 million of grants from foreign sources includes the conversion to equity
of NEA's US$ 22.2 million allocation from the Energy Sector Loan. The Govern-
ment cannot make this equity infusions, nor can it make the conversions to
equity implied by the financial restructuring of NEA, unless pending legis-
lation to increase NEA's authorized capital to * 20 billion is passed. That
bill has already been approved by the House of Representatives and is expected
to be passed by the Senate before the end of its term in late February 1992.
At negotiations, the Government and NEA provided an understanding that they
will use their combi-ed best efforts to ensure that legislation to increase
NEA's authorized capital to 0 20 billion is enacted by the end of 1992.
S.21      NEA plans to raisa an unusually large part of its investment re-
quirements from internal cash generation. First, NEA projects making sizeable
provisions for doubtful loans and for foreign exchange losses, which do not
involve cash outflows. Thus, even though NEA is projected to operate at
break-even during 1991-96, it should generate significant amounts of cash from
operations. Second, the financial restructuring will transfer most of NEA's
external debt to the Government, thereby minimizing NEA's debt service re-
quirements during the period. Finally, NEA is expected to collect on many of
its existing outstanding loans, thus generating additional cash inflows
against which it would have negligible outflows.
Future Finance
5.22      Financial projections for 1991-2000, along with the detailed as-
sumptions, are presented in Annexes 5.4 and 5.5. Key financial indicators and
ratios for the period are summarized in Table 5.3. The projections are based
on the following principal assumptions:
(a)  Starting with 1992, all new loans to the RECs will carry a 121 in-
terest rate and an average maturity of 20 years. The lending rate
should be increased to 131 in 1993 and to 141 in 1995 in order to
keep consistent with the cost based onlending rate formula (para
5.15). Resched!'led loans will also carry an interest rate of 121
even though NEA will not be realizing loan origination expenses.
NEA will not finance from its own account inherently non-viable
RECs; instead, for a service fee, it will act as a channel for di-
rect government financing of these and other projects of question-
able viability that the Government chooses to implemer.t.
(b) Beginning in 1992, NEA will charge fees for a number of its support
services (para. 5.14).



- 35 -
(c)  NEA will make appropriate provisions for doubtful accounts and for
anticipated foreign exchange losses. Also, starting with 1992, NEA
will contribute 35X of all interest revenues to the Foreign Ex-
change Fund. The fund will be utilized to purchase foreign exchange
cover from the Government at a cost assumed at 8X of NEA's out-
standing foreign currency denominated borrowings (para. 5.13).
(d)  NEA will improve its collection rate from an initial assumed level
of 652 in 1991 to 851 in 1995. These targets are attainable be-
cause: (i) under the financial restructuring, many of NEA's shaki-
est outstanding loans will he canceled, and (ii) the application of
the investment guideline and strict credit evaluation criteria will
largely eliminate investments in nonviable schemes.
(e)  The peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate is assumed to decline each year
in relation to the differential between the local inflation rate
and the international inflation rate.
5.23        NEA is projected to show a stable financial profile throughout the
1991-2000 period.  NEA in expected to realize operating losses during 1991 and
1992, mainly because of the substantial loan loss provisions against its ex-
isting portfolio of past loans that will be made during those years. In the
following years, NEA's net income is projected to improve, from P 32 million
in 1993 to a high of P 357 million in 1998. After 1998, net income stabiliz-
es, partly because of the dampening effoct of increasing provisions for for-
eign exchange losses on NEA's net income.
Table 5.3:        NEA's Projected Financial Performance (1991-2000)
(in million Pesos)
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Interest Inco=e            301    461    642    965   1266   1590   1778   1917   2021   2100
Other Operating Revenue     48    138    202    206    194    234    270    275    295    317
Operating Expensos         337    443    585    763    999   1191   1258   1293   1435   1501
Operating Profit/(Losa)     34    174    273    418    470    644    800    910    891    925
Not Income/CLosa)          (132)   (11)    32    102    122    220    304    357    325    324
Operating Cash Flow        168    309    465    705    981   1282   1429   1527   1640   1707
Total Assets              7581   8808   9862  12218  14544  15904  16568  16837  16862  16794
Long-ter Debt               0     761   1722   3796   S746   6588   6878   6691   6016   6541
Retainod Earnings        (2165)  (2337) (2465) (2459) (2464) (2323) (2108) (1770) (1465) (1162)
Contribution to Forex Fund  2     163    171    129   237    279    344    305    474    526
Foreign Exchange Fund Balanco  2  119    219    168    141    151    245    336    627   1032
Operating Ratio           82X     701    68S    70M    731    69S    651    61S    641    i5S
Average Collection Rate   65S    701    75S    601    85S    852   865    8S1    851    651
Current Ratio           116.82   72.82  32.45  26.84  14.11  10.78  11.73  14.24  10.14  11.69
Debt/Squity Ratio        0:100    9:91  17:83  31:69  40:60  41:59  42:58  40:60  36:64  33:67
Debt Service Coverage    "na"   40.72   9.26   5.99   4.22   3.20   3.30   3.71   2.87   3.10
Average Cost of Debt     "De"    6.71   6.81   6.41   6.21   6.11   5.9S   5.71   5.71   5.61
Average Cost of Funds     O0       Ox     12    1S    21        2S     21     2S     2S    2S
Average Yield (Lending)   5.21    6.7X   7.71   9.31  10.11  1141  11.91  12.21  12.51  12.81
Return on Equity         "neg"  "nDg,   0.61   1.91   2.21   3.86   5.0S   5.61   4.91   4.71
Return on Assets         "neg"    neg"   0.5S   1.3S   1.31   2.1S   2.81   3.3S   3.01   3.01



- 36 -
5.24      NEA's cash flow should remain sound, because of: (i) the substan-
tial amounts charged against income for "non cash items" (such as, foreign
exchange and loan loss provisions); and (ii) the gradual increase in collec-
tions. These factors enable NEA to increase operating cash flow sharply from
about P 168 million in 1991 to almost P 1.7 billion in 2000. At the same
time, debt will account for an increasing proportion of NEA's capital; debt
service coverage is expected to drop to about 3 times by 2000.
5.25      To realize this healthy performance, NEA will have to manage its
financial affairs prudently. The Financing Strategy provides for NEA to real-
ize or exceed the following financial targets: (i) collection rates of 701 in
1992, 751 in 1993, 801 in 1994 and 851 in 1995 and thereafterW; (ii) a re-
turn on total assets (after appropriate provisions for foreign exchange losses
and doubtful accounts) of at least 0 through 1994 and exceeding 2.01 in 1995
and thereafter; (iii) a debt service coverage ratio exceeding 4.0 through 1996
and exceeding 3.0 thereafter; and (iv) a debt:equity ratio of less than 60:40.
These targets are acceptable to the Bank7/.
B. Rural Electric Cooperatives
Past Financial Performance
5.26      Summary indicators of aggregate REC financial performance during
1985-89 are shown in Table 5.4 (page - 37 -).
5.27      Despite some improvements in system losses, load factor and collec-
tion efficiency, the RECs overall financial condition deteriorated sharply
during the 1988-89. Aggregate retained earnings and the RECs' net worth were
negative throughout the period, and net losses were realized in each year
except 1986 and 1988 (when the RECs as a group broke even). By 1989, the
aggregate retained earnings deficit reached P 715 million, more than double
the 1985 level. Because the RECs previously could not increase their tariffs
as needed or otherwise increase their capital, their financial condition inev-
itably worsened from year to year. Paid in capital from members amounted to
only P 20.5 million in 1989, representing an increase of only i 7.5 million
during the period. Revenues per kWh increased by 391 during the period, or
less than 81 annually. By comparison, operating expenses increased 631 during
the period, or an average of 12.61 annually.
vf   So far in 1991, as a result of (i) the cancellation of a large block of
non-performing loans in connection with the financial restructuring, and
(ii) the substantial REC tariff increases, NEA's collection rate has
climbed to about 701.
v/   The agreement being sought from NEA that it will neither amend, abridge
nor repeal the SOP and the annexed Financing Strategy without the Bank's
consent effectively ensures that NEA will be committed to meeting these
targets as a matter of policy.



- 37 -
Table 5.4:     REC Aggregate Financial Performance (1985-89)
(in million Pesos)
1985      1986       1987      1988       1989
Power Sales (GUh)               1,870      1,901     2,132      2,387     2,655
System Los. (X)                  23.3       24.4      24.8       23.7      22.8
Load Factor (Z)                  47.3       47.5      49.8       51.9       50.7
Collection Efficiency (X)          88         89         86        88         90
Connections/Employee              155        153       148        151        153
Average Rate per kWh             1.66       1.64      1.66       1.68       1.72
Operating Revenue               3,102      3,119     3,537      4,017     4,561
Operating Expenses              2,926      2,837     3,249      3,752     4,300
Operating Margin/(Loss)           176        282        288       265        260
Net Income/(Loss)                  (52)       11        (22)       (8)       (35)
Total Assets                    5,669      5,894     6,483       7,051    7,258
Long-term Debt                  4,493      4,550     4,873       5,673    5,750
Retained Earnings                 (308)     (347)      (449)     (593)      (715)
Current Ratio                    1.15       1.07        .94       1.12       .99
Debt/Equity Ratio                 Neg.       Neg.      Neg.        Neg.      Neg.
5.28      Many of the RECs have precarious liquidity; in fact, some might
already have become insolvent had NEA not been lax with its collection policy.
As of year-end 1990, NEA's collection rate was only 56X; out of the 118 RECs,
only 26 RECs were current with their NEA obligations. The remaining 92 RECs
had accumulated arrears corresponding to a total of 1,442 quarterly amortiza-
tion payments, or an average of 15.3 quarters per REC.
Financial Restructuring of the RECs
5.29      The financial restructuring of NEA also calls for NEA to provide
debt service relief to the 92 RECs that will continue to have delinquent
loans. NEA is currently evaluating the RECs that are eligible to have these
loans rescheduled, and has already come to terms with some 45 RECs for re-
scheduling about P 809 million in delinquent loans. The terms of these loans
are being developed on a case-by-case basis to take account of the financial
situation of each REC; however, the average maturity will be about 7 years,
with longest available being 15 years. The interest rate charged on these
rescheduled loans will be 12%.
REC Evaluation Criteria
5.30      NEA's investment guideline provides that it finance only REC in-
vestments that have a satisfactory economic rate of return (currently 15X).



- 38 -
The SOP also provides that the RECs be required to implement PIPs as a condi-
tion of borrowing from NEA. On the financial side, NEA will develop financial
targets on a case by case basis, taking account of improvement expected under
the PIPs. The Loan Policy Manual provides for NEA to adopt for the RECs the
following long term financial performance targets: (i) a current ratio exceed-
ing 1.0; (ii) a self financing ratio exceeding 20X; and (iii) a debt service
coverage ratio of 1.2-V. These financial performance targets are considered
widely attainable for most of the RECs within five years, given the substan-
tial efforts at tariff reform currently in progress (para. 5.38).
C. REC Tariffs
Tariff Reguladon
5.31        The RECs' retail tariffs are regulated by the NEC-TS which reports
directly to NEA's Board. In recent years, tariff regulation focussed primari-
ly on the average level of rates. Little attention was given to tariff struc-
ture. As a result, tariffs neither (i) reflect the costs of supplying dif-
ferent types of loads, nor (ii) provide incentive for load management.
Tariff Level
5.32        Annex 5.6 presents bulk rates, REC margins, and average retail
rates in constant pesos for the period 1985-90. Retail rates remained practi-
cally unchanged in current terms (Table 5.4), and declined steadily in real
terms during 1985-89, mostly reflecting real declines in NPC's bulk rates.
Then, they increased slightly in real terms in 1990, mainly to reflect bulk
rate increases.
5.33        The formula for establishing the RECs' average revenues covers:
(a)   the average cost of bulk purchases;
(b)   the cost of losses up to 25X of the energy purchased;
(c)   REC operating expenses per kWh sold;
(d)   debt service per kWh sold;
Albeit that the formula calls for covering these costs fully, the Government
introduced a policy in mid 1988 limiting the level of retail rates to no more
than P 2.50/kWh. As a result, explicit subsidies were introduced for small
island REC8 with higher costs per kWh; others simply did not meet debt service
obligations on NEA loans (and, where needed, some RECs delayed paying NPC for
bulk purchases). Similar problems arose for REC8 with system losses above the
25X ceiling (about one-fourth of the RECs). NEA's tariff policy has allowed
Iv   The agreement being sought from NEA that it will neither amend, abridge
nor repeal the SOP and the annexed Loan Policy Manual without the Bank's
consent effectively ensures that NEA will remain committed to these REC
evaluation criteria as a matter of policy.



- 39 -
the RECs to realize an additional provision of up to 5S of revenues to enable
self-financing a portion of investment; however, this provision was not in-
voked until the round of tariff adjustments that started in late 1990.
5.34        In September 1990, the Government decided to lift the P 2.5/kWh
coiling. NEC quickly authorized the affected RECs to implement overdue 'auto-
matic" adjustments for increases in bulk rates and wages. Then, in late 1990,
NEC initiated a full round of REC rate adjustments, and authorized the RECs to
include in their rates the 5X reinvestment provision. Pending local endorse-
ment and NEA Board approval of the new rates, the RECs were authorized to
apply an automat-ic 1.4 multiplier adjustment for increases in NPC's bulk rate.
By September 1991, some 100 RECs had implemented substantial tariff increases.
Following this round of increases, the average retail rates in Luzon and the
Visayas are expected to average about P 3.4/kWh (US l2g/kWh), which is reason-
ably in line with other countries in the region. In some of the smaller is-
lands, retail rates will reach about P 4.1/kWh (US 15g/kWh), a level common in
Caribbean countries. Because of Mindanao's hydro resources, consumers there
will enjoy low rates of about P 1.8/kWh (US 6.4g/kWh). Over all, average
revenues for all RECs increased from an average of P 1.97/kWh during 1990 to
an expected average of about P 2.81/kWh for September 1991. Part of the dif-
ferential reflects increases in NPC's bulk rate; however, a large amount cor-
responds to increases in the RECs' distribution margins. Thus, NEA's expan-
sive policy toward REC tariffs that took root in late 1990, combined with the
new emphasis on REC improving performance, provide the underpinnings for the
financial rehabilitation of the RECs.
Tariff Structure
5.35        The range of tariffs that the RECs apply to various consumer cate-
gories are detailed in Annex 5.7.
5.36        Residential. commercial, and gublic building consumers are charged
flat rates per kWh with minimum bills. Within a given REC, these rates are
similar, except for minor differences in minimum charges. There appears to be
no cross-subsidy among the low-voltage consumer categories. However, larger
consumers who are connected at medium-voltage are penalized since they pay the
same price as low voltage users.
5.37        With some exceptions, lndustrlal rates do include demand charges.
However, the demand charges are generally too low to reflect the structure of
the cost of supply, or to provide incentives for load factor improvements.
Since the energy prices applied to industrial consumers are generally the same
as those appiied to the other consumers, most medium-voltage industrial cus-
tomers pay generally higher rates than low-voltage consumers. Thus, the RECs
industrial tariffs are not competitive with NPC's, and many RECs charge royal-
ties to customers being supplied directly by NPC instead of competing to serve
them. The efficiency improvements expe4ted from successful implementation of
the PIPs (para. 4.24) should give the RECs scope to restructure their indus-
trial charges without correspondingly increasing low-voltage rates. Many RECs
have a special rate for Irrigatlon, which in fact is similar to the industrial
tariff. Thus, no pattern of subsidization of irrigation is discernable.



- 40 -
Future Tariff Polky
5.38        NEA has recently begun a review of its tariff policies aimed at
making rate levels and tariff structures more reflective of the cost of sup-
ply. A Tariff Policy Manual is under preparation for approval by NEA's Board
by February 1992. It summarizes NEA's existing tariff policies and includes
the recommended improvements given in the following paragraphs.
5.39        Lgvel. The tariff manual is expected to reconcile the need to
limit the REC inefficiencies that can be passed on to consumers with the real-
ity that improvement expected in connection with the PIPs will take time and
requirs some investment. Also, the reinvestment provision is being reviewed
to reflect the RECs' long term financial objectives (para. 5.30). The Tariff
Policy Manual is expected to include the following provisions:
(a)   The losses ceiling will gradually be reduced to 22Z by 1995.
While RECs with losses currently under 25X will be required to
meet that ceiling in the interim, those that cannot be expected to
comply with the ceiling in the foreseeable future will have year-
by-year targets set on a case by case basis according to the PIPs.
(b)   The self financing ratio carried in NEA's Loan Policy Manual im-
plies that the reinvestment provision will cover necessary in-
creases in working capital. On occasion, this might require in-
creasing the allowed range for the reinvestment provision. The
long term objective would be for the RECs to realize a 20X self-
financing ratio after covering debt service and workinrg capital
requirements (para. 5.30).
5.40        Structur. The rate manual is expected to include the following
provisions concerning tariff structure:
(a)   unification of all small, low-voltage, non-residential tariffs
under a new general service tariff;
(b)   unification under a single two-parts tariff of all medium-voltage
tariffs; and
(c)   inclusion of a power factor penalty to be applied to all medium-
voltage customers.
5.41        NEA is expected to make gradual adjustments to medium voltage
tariffs; and, pending further studies of optimal tariff structures, realize
reasonable transitional targets regarding (i) the relative weight of demand
charges, and (ii) rate differentials between medium and low voltage supply.



- 41 -
6. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Evaluation of REC Investment Programs
Categories of Investment
6.1       REC investments are disaggregated into to three main categories:
(i) rghabilitation or reinforcement, which may be required either because of
demand growth or the deterioration of existing networks; (ii) add-ons, which
consist of connecting new consumers within reach of existing networks; and
(iii) extJMsjong, which provide grid supply to previously unserved areas.
Generally, for each REC, each of these categories of investments is evaluated
separately. In developing their requirements for rehabilitation/reinforcement
investments, the RECs provide detailed lists of needed materials and equip-
ment; in contrast, the cost of add-ons and extensions are derived from NEA
standards (formulated either on a per consumer basis, or per km. of line). In
addition, each REC's investment program includes needed supporting equipment
and services, such as specialized vehicles, tools, and computers.
Methodology
6.2       NEA's evaluation of investments relies on a sophisticated computer
model. This model was first used to evaluate the investment programs of RECs
that would participate in the proposed project. The methodology is summarized
in Annex 6.1. The model calculates both the financial and economic rates of
return of the programs being evaluated. For the financial rate of return, the
cost streams include the financial cost of investments, operating expenses,
and energy purchases based on NPC's rates (adjusted to include the effect of
reduced losses); and the benefit streams consist of revenues from incremental
sales (adjusted to include the effect of reduced pilferage) valued at the
REC's existing retail tariff.
6.3       The ec2nomic rate of return takes into account a shadow exchange
rate of 1.2, and a shadow price factor of 0.6 for unskilled labor (the values
used by the Government in connection with the Public Investment Program).
Incremental bulk purchases as well as savings through loss reduction are val-
ued at the Long Run Marginal Cost (LRMC) of supply at 69kV; NEA has computed
LRMC for each of the Regional networks, using the same shadow price factors
and a discount rate of 15X (Annex 6.2). The economic benefits to new residen-
tial and commercial consumers are valued on the basis of their willingness to
pay for basic lighting using kerosene lamps, and an estimate of consumer sur-
plus associated with consumption over and above basic lighting. For industri-
al consumers, economic benefits are valued on the basis of willingness to pay
for diesel based self-generation. Benefits relating to increased consumption
of existing customers are valued only on the basis of the prevailing tariff of
each REC. No economic benefit is attributed to increased sales resulting from
the reduction of non-technical losses; only a small amount (25X) of the energy



- 42 -
saved by the reduction of non-technical losses is assumed to correspond to
wasteful consumption, and therefore counted among the net economic benefits.
B. Rates of Return on REC Investment Programs
6.4       Annex 6.3 shows the economic and financial rates of return pertain-
ing to the 1991-95 investment programs of the original 50 project RECs. Rates
of return were computed separately for each of the three major investment
categories (para. 6.1). For rehabilitation and add-on programs, the rates of
return generally exceed the 151 threshold by a substantial margin. The rela-
tively high levels of LRHC, resulting from their being based on a 151 opportu-
nity cost of capital and a 1.2 shadow exchange rate, tends to increase the
attractiveness of rehabilitation schemes by heightening the value of loss
reduction, while penalizing extension schemes by reducing the gap between
consumer willingness to pay and bulk supply costs. The extension programs for
17 of the RECs do not yield the required 151 rate of return and therefore are
not included in the proposed project. The RECs with extension programs yield-
ing less than satisfactory returns are generally characterized by low levels
of consumption per customer and poor load factors. Several of these RECs'
extension programs might have been justified if the cut-off rate been set at
121, or if lower shadow exchange rates had been used. However, given the
macroeconomic constraints currently facing the country and the need to infuse
financial discipline throughout the sector, NEA intends to concentrate invest-
ment efforts on consolidating existing markets and on high return extensions
such as those supplying productive loads.
6.6       The financial rates of return of rehabilitation schemes are gener-
ally higher than the economic rates of return, given the high financial value
of non-technical loss reduction. However, at a number of RECs, the financial
rates of return of extension schemes are somewhat lower than their economic
rates of return because of the exclusion of consumer surplus from the valua-
tion of financial benefits. Economic rates of return for rehabilitation and
add-ons are generally higher than for extensions, which is consistent with the
dxpectations of the Sector Study, and confirms that network extensions should
be considered primarily for areas of high consumer density. The rate of re-
turn, based on the consolidated net benefits for the original 50 project RECs
is 361, including the cost of support services.



- 43 -
7. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements to be Reached
7.1       Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would:
(a) Make the annual budgetary allocations required to enable the timely
implementation of NEA's financial rescheduling (para. 5.9); and
(b) Provide NEA with cover against foreign exchange risk for a fee
linked to the Weighted Average Interest Rate for 60.91 day time
deposits (para. 5.13).
7.2       Assurances were obtained at negotiations that NEA would:
(a) Not amend, abridge, or repeal the SOP, any annex thereto, or the
Tariff Policy Manual, without prior consultation with the Bank
(para. 1.9);
(b) Furnish to the Bank by September 30 of each year, its annual finan-
cial statements certified by an acceptable auditor (para. 2.12);
(c) (i) conduct jointly with the Bank an annual review of its invest-
ment program for the next five years and its investment accomplish-
ments for the last two years, and (ii) adopt any mutually accept-
able adjustments (para. 4.2);
(d) Arrange a satisfactory amendment to the USAID Project Agreement,
not later than May 31, 1992 (para. 4.12).
(e) Furnish the remaining Project Evaluation Reports for the Bank's re-
view and comment, according to an acceptable timetable (para. 4.8);
(f) Furnish to the Bank a copy of each on-lending agreement not later
than one month following its signature (para. 4.13); and
(g) Have its activities in relation to the Special Account, as well &a
the Statement of Expenditures being maintained for disbursement
purposes, audited in conjunction with the audit of its annual ac-
counts (para. 4.17).
7.3       At negotiations, understandings were obtained from the Government
and NEA that:
(a) NEA would furnish the Bank with its unaudited financial statements
by May 15 of each year (para. 2.12);



- 44 -
(b) NEA would utilize resources accumulated in Foreign Exchange Fund
only for the purpose of covering NEA against future foreign ex-
change losses (para. 5.12); and
(c) Use their combined best efforts to ensure that legislation to in-
crease NEA's authorized capital to P 20 billion is enacted by the
end of 1992 (para. 5.20).
7.4       The following are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan:
(a) NEA Board Adoption of the Tariff Policy Manual (para. 1.9)
(b) NEA's retention of consultants to provide technical assistance in
the area of materials handling (para. 2.5); and
(c) NEA's retention of consultants to provide assistance with NEA's
loan administration function (para. 2.10).
B. Recommendation
7.5       Based on the agreements given above, the proposed project provides
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$91.3 million equivalent to NEA. This
loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace on repayment
of principal, and carry the standard variable interest rate.
.o0o.



- 45 -
ANNEXES



- 47
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPPINES
RURAL EL,CRIICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
NEA's Statement of Operatng Policy
Natin ElectrUfication Adminstration
Board of AdminItraton
Resolutio No.
As Approved at its Meeting Held on May 17, 9911'
WHEREAS;  the Government of the Philippines has approved a plan to re-
lLevo NEA and the REC's of undue financial burdens imposed by uneconomic
decisions of the previous government;
WHEREAS;  "EA has proposed amendments to its charter which are intended
to strengthen its role in project development related to electrical distri-
bution and lender of capital to the RECs;
WHEREAS;  a bill to increase the authorized capital of NEA has been
placed before Congrcss;
RESOLVED TH1ERUEFORE, to approve, as it is hereby approved, a statement
of operating policy intended to guide the activities of NEA and the RECs in
this emerging new environment. A copy of the policy and attached Annexes
are appended hereto and form an integral part of this resolution.
Without Annexes
This Statement of Operating Policy was amended on November 12, 1991, when the NEA
Board of Administrators approved all the Annexes as part and parcel of and as underlying
policy for the Statement. One of the Annexes, the Loan Policy Manual, was amended on
December 17, 1991 so as to adopt as NEA policy specific long term financial performance
targeu for the RECs.



- 48 -
Page 2 of 4
National Electrifcation Admiistration
Statement of Operating PoUcy
Istraduidon
In June 1969, Republic Act 6038 declared the total electrification of the
countryside to be a national policy objective. The same Act also provided
for the organization of rural electric cooperatives (REC8) to implement the
policy and operate the resultant distribution networks.
The charter of the National Electrification Administration assigns to it
the role of supervising and coordinating implementation of the national
policy, by providing tochnical support to the RECs and financing their
expansion programs through grants and long term loans.
In recent years, progress towards achievement of the government's ultimate
objective of total electrification has slowed, accentuated by continued
financial difficulties encountered by the RECs. These difficulties in many
instances result from long standing inefficiencies and the requirement to
provide electricity to areas that are inherently uneconomic to serve. The
cumulative effect of inade-quate revenues and the consequent inability of
the RECs to maintain and improve existing plant has caused many of them to
default on payment of debt service to NEA, which in turn has severely lim-
ited the ability of the Administration to finance new expansion projects.
To revitalize the sector and renew the national commitment to the long term
goal of rural electrification requires major financial initiatives which
can only be implemented by the Government. In this regard a number of pro-
posals are under active consideration. As part of this proposed revital-
ization, it is also essential that NEA develop and implement new and im-
proved policies, practices and procedures, consistent with its charter and
proposed amendments thereto, to ensure that its activities and those of the
RECs are motivated by sound financial, technical and operating principles.
To this end, the following operating policies are hereby promulgated.
Operatng PoHides
1.          The primary role of NEA is to serve as an interested lender in
providing financing and technical support to the electrical distribution
utilities serving rural areas. To enable NEA to perform this role effec-
tively, NEA has asked tae Government to certify an amendment to its charter
(Annex A) that would enable NEA to (i) improve the quality of service it
renders in the areas of loan g6neration and project development; (ii) di-
vest itself of functions that are net related to electricity distribution
or lending; (iii) develop capabilities appropriate for an interested lender



- 49
AEX 1
Page 3 of 4
to improve the RECs' operational and financial performance, and tiereby
their crtdit-worthiness; and (iv) enable itself to exercise powers, normal
to a lender, that allow the imposition of discipline on its borrowers.
2.          The core business of NEA sb211 be conducted in accordance with
sound banking principles.  Funds to s*pport the primary mission may be ob-
tained from a variety of sources, in accordance with the Financing Strategy
of the Administration, (Annex B). A self-insurance fund shall protect NEA
from prospective foreign exchange losses. Funds as available shall be
loaned to the RECs on a source neutral basis.
3.          The loans policy of NEA is described in the Loan Policy Manual
which also forms part of Annex B. For the immediate future, priority shall
be given to loans needed to remedy identified deficiencies in existing dis-
tribution systems or to expand networks to capture productive loads, where
such investments would be evaluated as economically justifiable, and would
ensure the RECs' continuing financial viability.
4.          Pursuant to the loan policy, and to the extent that funds are
available, NEA shall finance and support projects initiated by the RECs
which in the opinion of NEA are technically feasible and which would main-
tain or improve the financial viability of the executing utility.
S.          In addition to the normul commercial conditions applying to
loans made by NEA, the Administration may attach conditions relating to
performance standards and objectives, including specific action plans
(patterned after the generic Performance Improvement Programs provided in
Annex C) for reducing technical and non-technical system losses, improve-
ments relating to operating procedures and comercial practices, and other
conditions as specified in the Loans Policy Manual.
6.          NEA recognizes the Government's overall responsibility for
social and economic development, and the strategic importance of reliable,
available, and affordable electric power in fostering economic development
and improving the quality of life. Accordingly, the financing strategy
and loan policies of KEA shall facilitate financial and technical support
for improvements to and expansion of REC facilities in underserved areas
which cannot be justified on economic grounds, provided that clearly iden-
tified subsidies are made available to NEA on a project by project basis.
NE would seek to handle the finance for such investments as the Govern-
ment's agent, and off its own Balance Sheet.
7.          Subsidized funding of uneconomic but socially desirable pro-
jects shall be contingent on NEA performing the same rigorous technical and
economic analysis that will be applied to financially sound projects, so as
to quantify in advance the true cost to the government. Ongoing operations
that result from subsidized funding shall also be subject to reporting
requirements anti performance objectives over and above those established
for commerclally vLable ventures, so as to encourage prudent management and
thus improve the prospect of future viability and eventual elimination of
subsidies.



-50 -
Page 4 of 4
8.          Loan applications and proposals submitted to NEA by the RECs
for the funding of projects shall include all necessary technical, finan-
cial, operating and other information pertinent to the project and be pre-
sented in such format as to enable NEA to perform evaluation and selection
of investments according to the attached Investment Guideline (Annex D).
Applications shall be evaluated in accordance the criteria discussed in
Annex D and any other factors that in the opinion of NEA are relevant to
specific proposals.
9.          The cost of loan origination services provided by NUA to the
electricity distribution utilities shall normally be included in the cost
of loans. Additional services, whether requested by the utility or consid-
ered necessary by NUA shall be provided in accordance with a Fee Schedule
(Annex E) which may be adjusted from time to time to ensure that all such
services are provided on a cost recovery basis.
10.         Subject to Para. 6, the pricing of electricity shall recover
all supply, operating, capital and loan repayment costs, and shall generate
surplus revenues, which over time will be used to finance a satisfactory
proportion of future expansion and to meet unforeseen emergencies. Tariff
structures should reflect adequately the costs of supplying the various
categories of load, and provide appropriate incentives for the rational use
of electricity. Specific policies to be followed by the RECs in setting
the level and structure of rates being developed in a Tariff Manual, to be
submitted separately to the Board not later than February 1992. In approv-
ing electricity prices, NUA shall ensure that inc reases are tied to pro-
ductivity improvements and do not result from inefficient practices.
11.         In order to foster cooperative ownership responsibility and to
enable the RECs to raise additional capital to finance system improvements
and expansion, the RECs, with the approval of NEA, or as ordered by NEU,
may raise their membership fees from time to time and may levy assessments
on their members.
12.         In the event of default in loan repayments, which in the opin-
ion of NUA cannot be resolved to its satisfaction, NRA shall take appropri-
ate action to safeguard its investment and maintain service to consumers,
and may undertake a restructuring of the cooperative by merger or the for-
mation of a new entity.
13.         NE  may make regulations to ensure compliance with this State-
ment of Operating Policy and the Annexes attached hereto, and such regula-
tions shall be binding on all its borrowers.
14.         This Statement of Operating Policy is effective immediately.



PIMUPPINES
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
Natonal Electrilca0on Administration
Current OraanizaUon Chart
cofrooaF 
I~
I OFTIE 
"AMMAKM  MAOUGEMM                COM01M C
0"L'M
couff AOMMUTRIMM                                       FNVJMUM~~~~~~IPWYWUSRAO
TECH  WMLIWMU  DEVBQPU
ENW*             , rw           l                       l0r4
[  O E 5  |   1 OEPUbG                                   F ~~~~~~~~~~~~ASN lOMW I
AMX                                        SXERVEi AU
MPARIUMT  GLOARTMW    MAIUMM                                    DEPP~~~~~~r-UM-    EPAmM



PHIUPPINES
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVffTALZATION PROJECT
National Electrification Administraton
Proposed Orgnizatdon Chart
O TMO    ----ECUn
ADMONSTRCOR               OTOR 
FOFW"ASSISTMAWiISTPATOA                    SNCOAM
[~~~~~~~~L~a OPTH
PIA~~CTSUOFICE                                FLTO
ADMONSTPAPMEMOSIR  S~EI
r           XB3'+  w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PWSwe
.   0,r"EO       CMC'                                COMPNA



flilLIPPINfS
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
NATION^L ELECTRIFICATION ADKINISTRANION
Staffin. Profile (Peb. 1991)
NO. OF      NO. OF      CENTRAL          ON FIELD ASSIGNKENT
PERSONNEL                    GRAND   PERMANENT   CONTRAC-       OFFICE                              -
DISTRIBUTION                 TOTAL   EMPLOYEES      TUALS        BASED       RE     DETAILED   ON TRAVEL   OTHER    ON
CENTER   TO COOP      ORDER    OFFICE  LEAVE
ODA/PRO/OA/CORMEC/LKGAL        72        61           11           62         4         0           3          1       2
NEC - TS                       24        24            0           23         1         0           0         0        0
3 S 0                          19        19            0           18         0         0           0         0        0
CORPLAN                        39        39            0           34         1         1           4         0        0
FIELD OPERATIONS               75        69           6            14        15        40           3         1        2
ENGINEERING                   109        109           0           56        11        15          25         0        2
HATERIALS NKAGEMENT            88        87            1           43         2         0          17         0        1
AEDD                           54        54            0           20         9         7          13         0        5
COOP OPERATIONS                58        58            0           26         6         9          16         0        1
COOP SERVICES                  61        61            0           45         2         2           8         0        4
COOP AUDIT                     51        51            0           13        12         6          17         0        3
FINANCE                        67        67           0           62          1         0           0         1        3
LOANS                          36        36           0            35         0         0          0          0        1
ADMINISTRATION                100        97            3           92         3         1           2         0        2
IEJAN RESOURCES                36        36           0           36          0         0          0          0        0
CRAND TOTAL                   889        868          21          579        67        81          108        3       26
.  ..  .-                                            ..ni                        -           -          -_



- 54 -
PHILPPINES                             ANNgX 3.1
RURAL ELECTRIMCA11ON REVgIAUZATION PROJECT
NATIOwNAL ME CTIFICATION ADMINIISTRATION
Annual Formation of RECs
You                                 No. of REC&
Establse
1971                                         16
1972                                         20
1973                                         10
1974                                          6
1975                                         19
1978                                          3
1977                                         21
1978                                          9
1979                                          6
1980                                          2
1981                                          3
1982                                          0
1983                                          2
1984                                          '
1985                                          1
1986                                          1
1987                                        -2
1988                                        -1
1989                                          1
1990                                          2
TOTAL                                       120
RECs ESTABLISHED BY YEAR
24r
22
20
12 
10 
4
2
0
-2
-41
1371 I 1373 ln I 354177 'I 1373 l1951I 331 1353 13I 1137 i lift I
io72 1374 1975 1378 1330 1292 1334 1986 1398 1390
S _  s ~~VE



- 55 -
ANNEX 3.2
PHILIPPelNES
RURAL ELECTRIFICATItON REVITALIZAION PROJECT
NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRATON
REC Sales and Customers IOB8 - 1990
1981     1985      1986      1987     1988      1989      1990
ILhS (Gw3I
Recntial        511      735       775       890      999      1132      1275
Commorcial      227       276      296       335       382      429       466
Indusrl         365       503      529       618       680      752       811
Public Bldg.     50        71       75        84        93      106       113
Others          247       285      226       210       232      236       216
CONNECTIONS (X 1.0001
Residential    1450      2262     2356      2455      2527     2625      2745
Commercial      108      *143      148       153       166       178      186
Indutal           3         6        6         7         8         9       10
Public Bldg.     19        27       27        28        29       32        34
Others           37        42       40        41        51        44       49
AvERAGE CONSUPMT1ON PER CONNECTION (kWh/MONTHI
Residenial       29        27       27        30        33        36       39
Commercial      175       161      167       182       191       201      209
Industrial     8957      6943     6763      6921      6740      6893     6941
Public Bldg.    219       217      228       245       262       277      274
Others          556       671      470       427       377       447      370
TOTA          - ..-                            .v                  #



- 56 -
A 3. 3
Page 1 of 6
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ELECTRIIICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
Reeout Trends ad Forusts of Sales nd Custom,s for So Project RECsY
au                            nu i    .ini .i.ii, ,,ote9" s (% iA
Sales                          24,770   ",107    4X8.16    6S.M0           4.47%     6.2%         7.0"
Los" ratio                         22^       21%       19%        11%        ".a.      n.a.        n.e.
N.. of Connections              49,065  43.039    72.025    76,627          6.47%     2.70%         1.04%
Cons^tomptie/C.nnOtion              01*  466           606        661      -1.6       5.36%        6.6%
New Conn0tions/yr (Total)                                                   3.494     1.797         767
Add-ons                                                                  P.*.       ".e.         S"4
Lutesions                                                                n.ea.      ".e.         211
t;".  $01:6                     17.776   20.441    37.776    63.941         3 .1%    13.07%        9.17%
Loss PAti            27%       32%       111~*%                n.e .     n.e.        R.&.
N.. of Connections                s17    60.770       2.793    74.69        t.96%     1.01%        1.03%
Csosi_ption/Con"oettin             369      3336       S44        *4       -2.26%    10.9S%        7.10%
Nww Co.n.otions/yr (Total)                                                  3.140      1.201      1.351
Add-on S..                                                                           ne          740
xtensons                                                                   ..        ne          60"
P. R.S41:6                16.062   22.647    27.729    43.030        6.05S%    3.1%          7.60%
Loss Ratio                         24%       291%      32%        19%        n.a.      n. e.       ".G.
No. of CennOctions              33,04    43.772    50.191    53.337         7.26%     2.77%        i.02%
Consumption/Conncetion             547       522       552        607      -1.15%      1.14%       *.51%
New Connections/yr (Total)                                                  2.40R      1.234        524
Add-o                                                                        .       n.e.        305
Extens10ns                                                                n          n.e.        220
PINft i s                        5.293    6,769    10.704    20.926         6.34%     9.60$       11.62%
Loss Ratio                         24%       23%       21%        11%        n.c.      n.c.        n.e.
me. of Connections              11,762   19.743    23.625    33.600        13.62%     3.66% 3.05%
ConsuetinConnect1on                450       343        453       623      -6.57%     5.73%        5.45%
NMm Connections/yr (total)                                                  1."95        776      1,443
Ad4-one                                                                   n..        n.e.      1."3
Eatonsions                                                                n. n.e                   0
HIMfw  lot                      22.734   27.787    42.555    66,979         5.15%     *.90$        6. 3S
Loss Ratio                         25%       30%        31%       21%                    n.e. ma       ..
N.. of Connections        0,      .       63.6I   69.6            356       6.22S      1. 4S        1.69%
Conemption/Connection               373      333        474       694      -2a.4%      7.31%       6 5MS
Now Connectione/yr (Total)                                                  5.453      1.271      1. 63
Add-on"                                                                   n         ne         1.563
Exteonsens                                                                n.         n ..          0
7i!1tl    1tS                   13,031   22.64     36.602    57.669       14.62%    11.40%        6.07%
Lost Rati                       2  43%       35%       31%        19%         -          - 
No. of Connections              27.436   38.026    47.356    11.620         6.60%      4.41%        1.51%
Consumption/Connoction              475      1ff        620     1.117       5.62$      6.62%        5.26%
Nem Connections/yr (Total)                                                  2,44       1.645         745
4dO-one                                                                   n.e.       n.e.        173
EAtensions                                                                n.c       n.e          572
cEOM LS                    0    9,977    22,179    37.437          -       17.32%       9.12%
Lots Ratio                            0      2          21%        11%       n.e.      n.ec        n.c.
Ne. of Connections                    -   22.337    30,365    32.930          -        4.33%        1.36%
Consumption/Connection                0      447        730      1.137        -       10.:3%        7.45%
New Cennoctions/yr (Total)            0                                     5.S04      1.64C         425
Add-ens                                                                   R..         .e.        261
Extensions                                                                nc        ne.          167
NW  W;I- e;t ffi10.213   22.S72    52.344 S                     9.237      22.33%    10.01%        9.30%
Less Ratio                         38%       34%        24%        13%      nBe.       n.e.        nR..
mo. *t Connections              24.701   30.917    33.n01    n.o77          5.77%      1.91%        2.70%
Consumption/Connoction              413      740      1. 40     2,236    1.66%    11.60%           6.42%
New Cennctions/yv (Total)                                                   1.154        613         963
AdO-one                                                                      .       n.e.        650
Eatensioi                                                                 ne         ne          333
V           Originally, the 50 RECs presented below were to be the beneficiaries of the proposed ban;
at negotiations, NEA asked that four more RECs be added to the list of beneficiaries.
Although the circumstances and investment programs of those four RECs were appraised, the
data needed for this annex was not readily available.



- 57 -
NNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 6
PHEUPPINES
RURAL ELECIRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
Recent TreDds and Forects of Sale and Customers for S0 Project RECs
---Growth Estee (7 *
IffiNles               30.67S   23.201    25,264    32.277        -6.6*       1.737       4.165
Less Ratio                         267.      17%       237.       13%        R.&.      u.a.        n.e.
eo. of Cen"etlens               1. 3    17.00    19.fl1    20.176           6.6 S0    2.2 M        0.39%
ctessmptie.m/Cennsetlea          2.244    1.310      1.933      1.600    -12.65S    -0.S4S         3.75S
New Crnctloas/yr (Tota)                                                       991        422         77
Ad-oes                                                                    ".. .      .e.          46
gatosasle                                                                 R.&.       n.e.         31
ISESi'||t a                           0   34.621    464.13    74.626          -         2*         6.007
".. of Ceenectlo"s                    0   19.937    26.779    33.713                   6.27i7      4.67%
Ce"su_tln"/CefOct1iO"                 0    1,737      1.616     2.204                 a. O%        3.26%
New C=s--  ttens/yr (Total)                                                 4.94       1162       1,322
Add-ens                                                                   R.e.       n.e.      1,322
Ext;ns1en                                                                 n.e.       u.s.         0
Wti4     1slos                        0    2.475      4. 917    6,064                 14.72*        3.63%
Loes  Eatlo                           0      137.       13%       11%             n.e. n..          R.5.
No. of Connections                    0    5.931    11.136    11,471                  13.43%       0.60#
C-nsu.ptien/cofnnetl s                -      417        442       628         -        1.147       3.027
Now Conneetlsns/yr (Total)                                                  1,         1.041          o6
Add-ens                                                                   5.0.      n.e.          54
atoslon                                                                      .       ..            0
sales                       11,663   12,076    16.121    36,467         1.0%      6.827      12.37%
Less Ratio                         23%       3*%       267.        14%       R.s.       n.*.        n.6.
me. of Connections              19.000   24.234    25.t16    31 519         6. 167     1.367        3.317
fenswsmtion/Cennection              "a6       46        734     1.221      -3.93%      6.14%       6.76S
New Connectlen-s/yr (Total)                                                 1109         337         934
Add-ees                                                                   n..       R.&.         742
EStofsioS                                                                                        191
*T"A-h]:*.                     22.460   26.733    46.901    70.244         4.45      11.90%       6.90.S
Les  atle                          207.      22         107        10%       .e&.       n.a.        rna.
NH. of Connections              33.695  4U.561    64,632    64.740          9.40%      2.36%        2.67%
Cons  eptlon/C*ectlen               623      651        656      1.209     -4.63%      9.2*%        5.07%
tNe  Connton s/Yr (Total)                                                   3.64       1.214       1.65
st@^s1@"                                              "~~~~~~~.e.  u.s.       6265
Extnton$ne                                                                            a        1.169
"I.,                 27,676   29,110    37.907    66177          1.277      S. 42       7.40%
Less Ratio                          67       14%        14%        117.S       a.       ".e.         ".S.
No. of Counectlona              32.305   43.067    62.144    57.140         6.637.     3.907        1.647.
Cotsurmpt21nCennection              o21      676        727      1.016     -5.03S      1.467.      56.77%
New Cennectiens/yr (Total)                                                  2.438      1.617         633
Add-ens                                                                   n.a.       n.s.         26
Eatenslen                                                                 n.e.       u.s.        M0
229    1.461      2.711     6.107      69.47%    20.17%        6.66%
Lss Ratio                           24%      327        25S        167      n.s.       n.s.          u.s.
No. of Cenneetlens                   64    4.624      6.746     6,245      61. 1%      6.23%        3.407
COns  ptlen/Cennectlen              264      327        660        741       .467    10.o '3i 6.09%
NOW C.nnOctlns/yr (Total)                                                     916       "4           260
Add-ens                                                                   n.e.      R.s.         250
Eatenslen                                                                 u.s.       u.s.           0
Total 56106                      11.609   17.060    51.405    62.13        10.107.   24.6%          6 .12%
Les   atio                          207      14%        10%        107.       .s.       R.s.         ".a.
No. of Csnseetlees               19.296   26.421    30.966    26.699        8.17%      3.227.       2.40%
Censumption/Connection              602      646      1.660      2.301      1.79%    20.7*          6.697.
New  eoe etiefis/yr (total)                                                 1.761        907         790
Add-as,s                                                                  n.a.       u.a.        536
xtateslon                                                                 n.e.       n.e.        262
"* all1"Tog                 7.645   12.105    16.66       31.124      12.16%     9.07%        6.67%
Loes  RatIo                         217.     217.       1*%        11%       n.a.       n.e.         ".S.
No. of Ceensctlons               16.02U   21.094    24.246       .26s       0.667      2.63%        1.97%
Cewsimptlon/Cennectln               609      674        771      1.142      3.06s%     6.0          6.77%
Nbw Cxnneetlens/yr (Tetal)                                                  1.S16        651         601
AtX-ons                                                                   R.&.       R.e.         "I
Eateeslen                                                                  ..          e.0



- 58 -
ANMEX 3.3
Page 3 of 6
PHLPPINES
RURAL ELECTRIfiCATION REVflALIZATION PROJECT
Recent Trend  nd Forecats of Sae ad Cumers for 50 PmJct RECs
---60*wth Rates (%
"M^1 "111                       31.764   33.044    11.333    U.76U          1.64      SIft.        6.0"
Less Ratio                         33        360   3%             13%        n.e.      n.eL.        *.a.
No, of Con"oti"s                                               43 3.  .   4,74  6.11%  3.77%       1.11%
Co..s_s.on/Connection            1,348    1.0'4      1.31      1.0 7      .1.1%      4.66%        6."%
NM Conn.otioS/hr (Total)                                                    I,1s       1.314        741
A-                                                                        n.e.      n.e.         4"
latonoln                                                                  n.e.      n.e.         au
*W WA1                            ?.04(T l)  10144    15.036    21.737      7.30%     8.77%        6.31%
Ls | Z  Z                          24S      't        21S        llS        R.*.      ti.e.        R.Gf.
e. *of Cein.wtions              16044   34.964    30.176    31.172         11.6U%      3.66%       0.97%
=44M.1comm" ti         "      ,f" ' 490   '419      M f f             4 so40 ,-3.64%  4.73%    4.30%
ow tn"ntie"o/yr (Tot)                                                       2,230      1.042        300
AU-on.                                                                    n..       ne            00
Exttension                                                                 ..       n..0
TIV9'ffii*                       4.315    4.,46      7,112    11,433        2.06%      0.16%       7.23%
Lose Ratio                         34%       34%        19%        31%       n. S.      n.&.         n.e.
Nb. of Connectlens              14.013   16.914    16.616    16,.06         3.i33      3.41%       0. 6%
Consw mpion/Conntetion              304      301        300        666     -0.26%      6.67%       6.61%
Now Conectles/ir (Total)                                                      4715       S0          i1s
Add"sn                                                                    n.e.      n..          11
Extension                                                                 ne        n..0
.il 1s               5.u6    10.676    16.764    37.636    -32.06%          6.00%       *.6as
LOSS Ratio                          16%      34%        34%        13%       n.e.       R.e4.       N.A.
me. *o  Connetins66 5.101  233.41    6f,136    36."1    -30.02.0%                      1.30%       1.02%
Co"sumption/cn"nrntion             903       44         617       666    -16.14       6.71%       7.76%
New Connoctieos/yr (Total)                                                 4.640         310         514
Add-on.                                                                   n.e.      n.e.          6
Extension                                                                 ".G.      N.A.         44
*%M         ..                        0     ,6       11.36     16,73          .        7.6%        1.73%
Loss Ratio                                   13%        33%       21%        n.e.       n.e.        n..
NH. *f Connections                    0   30644    32.377    33.326           -        0.7%        0.44S
Coos  mptnIS.Connctien                -      234        34        473         -        6.U3%        ".3I%
Nhw U=nectione/yr (Total)                                                   7.712        306         146
AUd-onen..                                                                           .e          146
gatenelonn..                                                                         ..0
11ff~hgi+es                      6,023    67*6    11,?76    21.667          3.30%      7.7M%        *37
Los  Itls                          24S        6         in    s   21         R.s    llS. r   ^  ra 
me. of C""nctions               17.63  24,442    26.600    32.73            6.63       3.320%     23.36
Coeuntien/C" o      tnneton        467       350        447        G"      -6.         4.44%       6.96%
ow  onect  sne/yr (Totel)                                                   1.732        833         66
AU-ns*                                                                    n.e        n           336
lateonon                                                                             n.          361
Tost1 &T- s                      7,06      7.760    14.061    30.337        2.3t%    12.61%         6.36%
Lo.s  atio                         23%       36%        1% S       I1%       ".e.       n.m.         n.r.
oe. of Cn"nections              19.640   3,013   23.1I4    31.036           S.13%      4.06%        1.03%
Conaumptisn/Connlection             301      335        461        656     -.3.3%      6.31%        6.34%
Nw Conn.tions/yr (Totel)                                                    1.03      1.054         307
AUd-one                                                                   a.e.       n.e.          307
Extensionne.                                                                         ne             0
ILceo ss
1U Zmlos                         0.372   11.319    14.63       3t.466       4.97%      t.64%       12.14%
Lose Ratio                         36%       33%        17%        11%       n.e.       n.e.         n.e.
No. of Connections              17,152   21.279    10.0        3  530       6.14%    -1.I4          1.04%
ConsptiomiCs"Recti#"                54       530        763       ilil     -0.O3%      7.3*%        6.71%
Ne  Coenotiote/lr  (Totel)                                                  1.032       -316       1.140
AU-one A.N.                                                                          n.e.         74
Intension                                                                 ne         n..306
TOTi   les                      14.661   13.1U       30.665    ",003       -4.15%    19.11%        13.64
Loss Ratio                          41%      14%        13%        11%       n.e.       n.a.         n.e.
No. of Cnctiots                 24,676   27.779    36 111            t43S   2.00       0.97%       10.63%
Cons.tion/Coenn tloti               507      43       1.040      1.233     -6.74%    18.36% S        .77%
New Connections/yn  (Total)                                                    730       174       4.046
Add-ons                                                                   n..        n.4. .6
Uaetnsieinn.                                                                         n.           300



- 59
ANE    3.3
Page 4 of 6
PHLPPINES
RURAL EICRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
Reent TIreds ad Forecat of Sae sad Customers for 50 Project RECs
..-BroWuth lets. (% pm)-
au                           imilu -2                 -
13.317   1.3 Su    47,140    73,30?      lit.7%    17.13%       6.17%
Lees aette               21%~~~~~J  31%     214%       11%        R.*.      H.&.        ge
Is. ef Ceeneet1e~s             26,6a 7   26.376   41 9,6     of.149     so127%     1 M          4.%
Cegg9t1.a/C.eeoet 1n              5 N00    54       1.183     1 .447      a.04%    11.63%       4.32%
New Ceeuteetl.gs/vr (Tetl)                                          *3.167                 a1 2, 1g
Add-on"                                                                  H.      n             14
Iatemasl.,nm                                                                     ne         1.443
up301.0                         4914  71.831  13971.  2517j3            -4.6%    14.4S2%       103I%
N.. of Ce"eetions              43,534  67 326    as136          47.      7.13% i     .35%       4.46%
Ceaoutteu/Cirneottsu            1.997    1.341      2.276 .   3,16     .11.11%    12.417%S      $JU
06ow Coestimeg/yr (Toal)                                                 3.41         all      3079
Add-q                                                                  n.e.      g.         a 2.49
SlEWU- .                        *.644 4 5*444    43*M        77,6106    34.07%    23.03        10.S l%
Ne. ef Ceenetovtlo             11.527   26.582    St,26o    53.736      23.14%      a. 16%      6.37%
Ce_tten/Cr        e  "enao n      40      a562      1.13*u     1.440 *    .51%    1.6           4.67%
Ikw Coe.t.e.s/yur (Total)                                                3.749       .646      2.412
Add-sone                                                                .e.      n.e.       1.664
qUpli' e -  s                  16.21   121.750   32.271    6.61         46.66%    6.21%        13.61S
Los lotte                         17*       11%       an         11%      "..        h.,.        M.S.
No. of Cennetieons             1lo.06  26O,0       36,00     46.43    1i 74%        S .1%       4.26%
Censem%ntIGn/Cotlen             1,065      777        66      1.814     -. 69%      2.61%       7.12%
NW coneeioensIY/r (Total)                                                3.100      1.60       1.706
Add-onos                                                                 R. .e.               M0
LasgtsOem                                                              nW .eS.              1,466I
--i-xeo I
To i  6 is*                    4*7       0191U     16199     34,31    11.64%    17,S3!%        10 i7%
me. of Conneetl                11.671   16.177    24,741    30.741       11.01%     6.34%       3.66%
Consuwstliv/iC.ogtln              365       46        766     1,117      4.36      10.3f4%      6.46%
New Cosnmettens/y,  (Total)                                               1It2    1,313        100oo
Add-4me                                                                n.e.        ..       1000
Cate olon                                                                          .0
'75TIT"UTIO 8                   1,476    4,556    17.17    306S44       24.66%    31.34%        6.46S
Less fti                          11%      12%        6%         6%       n.e.       R.e.        n.e.
Ns. of C.nnegtlono              6,136   14,016    16.64    24,406       21.00%      7.24%       3.4;%
Censi.wtton/Cenweetten            2t7       325       S"      1,257       3.16%    22.47%        . 60%
Now C"Ren etlens/yr (Total)                                               1.666     1,174        75U
Add-on                                                                 G.". n.e.               U
Uutoos1ne                                                              g..        n.e.        167
Ti iri Te's                     4.490    6,067      86.44    13,366      6.74%      7.27%       7.54%
Loes lotteo                        M       36%        24%        13%      ".e.       N.A.        n.e.
"s. *o  Cognettenos             6.662   11.220    14.o33     17.064      13.7S%    6.02%         2.97%
Consumptien/Cegoctie"             701       643       O03       764      *6.4.      2.14%       4.46%
Now Ce"neottegs/yr (Tetal)                                                1.132       O23        466
Add-ons                                                                n.e.       n.e.        45
Extension                                                              0..        n.e.          0
*TiUP Soles                      .10    1t2,66     23,251    47.064      20.74%    10.34%      12.41%
Lees latle                          S       13%       17%       11%       ".a.       n.e.        *.a.
No. of Ceonections                       16,6564   26.519    34,216 l    1.05%      4.71%       5.0%
Cegs_mpt4ee/Ceggoteio            4667       66        01      1,29        1.46%     6.7%        6.30%
M"e Ceggettegsyw  (Total)                                                 2.343     1.432      1 733
Add-ego                                                                n.a.       M.e.      1354,
Estenelen                                                              11.0.      n.e.        346
TWY4IIgal                      16,622  23.704    35.761  50 4Z6           4.44%     6. 6%        5. 0%
Lose  Rati                        17%       16%       23%       13%        1.a.      M.S.        R.&.
No. of Cene"tlens              17,334  26.272    30 624    33.767        IO.94%     3.25%        1.13%
CegswttonIceggeotteno           1,146       on      1:161     1.464      -5.67%     6.16%        C.2I%
New Cegneet1*8e6/y  (Ttol)                                                2.3        610         406
Add-eos                                                                 ".e.      n.e.        4H
xtensin                                                                  ..       n.e.          0



60
ANNEX .33
Page 5 of 6
PHIPPINES
RURAL ELCT RIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
Roaest Tres and Forecasts of Saks and Customers for Project RECs
-.-   wth Rates (%  ..)..
67   11901   2319S    31,16  235.10%    12.33%              G.%
Less Katie               36~~~~~2%  SF.      13%        11%       ..         .e
Ne. .1 Cenneotiene              3.901   17,651    25.017    M,37S    *MGM.         S. 98%       3.12
C.nsmm*tio/C.nnaetion              23     "6         "6       1.2U    131.61%      6.00%        6.64%
Ne  Cseaeti,ns/vr (Totel)                                                3.736      1,433        1"
Intonetent                                                                                    an...  2
"Ig'                     239.076   63.592   137.514   194.913     30.21%    10.47%        6.1 i
Less Katie                        31%      39         36        16%       n.*.      an. .        n.*.
No. of ConnGetotns             26.1III   36.969    42.721    57.616       .06%      3.92%       S.16n
Ce.eenptlielco"nection          1.113    2.260      3.2 19    3.404     19:37%      7.33%       0.96%
New Cms,.etiens/yr (Total)                                              2716       1.146     23523
Add-oone                                                               n.e       n.e           42
KAtensten                                                              n.e.      n.e.       3,461
R.  sales                     5,715   6,111      9.306    14,921       1.69%     6.75%        6.19%
Less Katie                        30%      12%        36%       13%       n.e.      n.e.         R.&.
No. ot C,nnections              9.901   14.016    16.002    21.142      10.61%      1.6%        *. 66%
Consumptin/Connectton             577      412        579       706     -9.06%      7.01%       3.37%
NH" Cenopetione/yur (Total)                                               1.229       253        643
Add-one                                         n.e.      n.e.        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~123
Int  oi..n                                                             n         n            720
Ttal I".S                     167.600  165.6S1   141,555   164,232      -0.32#   -3.10%         2.92%
Loss Ratio                        .36%    .60%         2%        2%        n.e.     n.e.         n.e.
No.  f Connections             12.936   15.0       19.IS152    22.539    6.16%      3.92%       2.76%
C.ne r ten/Connection          12.972   10.411    7.391       7.,4      .5.19%    -6.75%        0.16%
N"e CrnnectlenS/yr (Total)                                                  716       669        565
Add-en                                                                nt.a.       ne          433
etnstemf1n                                                             n.e.      n.e.         131
Teti] s 13 20.375   14.333   27,218    44.653    -8.42%    13.69%                               9.47%
Lass Katie                         9%       19%       20%       11%       n.e.       n.e.        n.e.
me. of Con etions             is5.101    20.476    24.0J    2 .96        *.07%      3.29%       3.15%
Consumption/Cnaection           135'7       700     1.131     1.416   -15.26%    10.07%         6.13%
New Co nnectin/tyr (Totel)                                                1.367       716        621
Add-ons                                                                n.e.       n.e.        323
Extension                                                              n.a.      n.e.         496
ToMir'soiles          S         9569   11 .249    24.436    47.612       9.06%    16            11.76%
Loes  Ratie                       15%      27%        16%       11%       n.a.       n.e.        n.e.
No. of Connections             13.969   26.167    26.167    37.217       19.16%     0.00%       4.75%
Coeein_ptien/Connect1on           665       495    ZS"         1.379     -7.79%    11.67%       6.46%
New Con eetiona/yr (Total)                                                3.550        0       1.50S
Add-ens                                                                n.e.       n.e.        697
Latonmion                                                              n..        ne           12
Ti? Sales                      37.660   45.730    61.S17    S6,543        4.42%     6.21%       7.72%
Leea leti.                        15%      21%        13%        11%      n.e.      n.e.        n.e.
No. *f Connections             24.505  41.216   50.475    63.966         13.%       4.14%       4.03%
Conswmption/Conneetien          1.54    1.109       1.322     1.610      -7.96%     2.00%       3.56%
Now Cenneetions/yr (Total)                                                4.176     1'651      2.249
Add-monn..                                                                         .e       1,279
ateasion                                                               n.e.       n.e.        970
THlkPrsaeis                     2.,01    9,030    17.113    21.795    33.06%    13.66%          4.11%
Loes Ktatie                        9%      20%        21%        11%       n.e.      n.e.        n.e.
No. of Connottens               1,912   17.411   24. 171    2,6607       30.76%     6.76%       2.65%
Cens6tio/Ceannct ion              466       519       706       76        1.76% S    .42%       1.33%
New Couneottons/yr (Tortal)                                               B.66      1.152        739
Add-nse                                                                 n.e.      ".e.        7O
Extension                                                              n.         ne.0
UWSalas                        6.616   10. 95     25.306    3.o06      29.91%      6.9%         ?.52%
Lose matte*                       13%        6%       10%        7%        n.a.      n.e.        n.e.
No. of Conections               S. 447   17.137    20.969    30,257      19.35%     4.12S       6.30%
Cocnnetio/Cenneetion              766    1,106      1.202      1.292      6.6SA     1.76%       1.14%
New Cenneettensfyr (Ttotl)                                                3.173       766       1.646
Add-one                                                                 n.e.      n..         902
Eattenette                                                              n.e.      n..          4



* 61 -
AENEX 3.3
Page 6 of 6
PHEIIPPINES
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
Recent Trends and Forecasts of Sale and Customern for SO Project R1ECs
*--fel wth States (%
an             m i              u   LUL  ul
2i.eies                        2iV?307   31,1 1     ,66 ,070   107.164   3.34%    14.13%        7.61%
Lea stli*tt                             t18%         10        11%                              Rio .*  ..
me. *f Cnections               16.533   31.334    41.203    U".         14.0%       6%.6%       4.1%
Comeunt"Iof/Connoctton          1,110    1,13      1.65*     2,0*     -C."%       6.04%       3.64%
U" Cisest3ons/yv (otal)                                                             1.074      1 ,10
Add.-*0                                                                n.*.       i.n. 1,136
Iat.emin                                                               M.. G       ..         7"
"M iefs                        25.66S4 26166    37.674    6.160          0.47%       .60%       0. 16%
Loee Ratio                        16%      14%        13%       11%       R.eS.      n.e.        a.&.
No. of Con"eti                 2030U0   36447    36,672    46362          .46%      S. S 0      3. 0 I
Ceam_t1on/Co"emnectio           1.247      "a       1.033     1.364     -6.22%      3.14%       .00%
_ cOU0O4Ifti5e/yr  T                                                    1 972      1,641      1.615
Add-on'H.                                                                         la        1,616
IxtoeOin                                                              S.C e     n              0
;     mqfl!                     7.403   13.492    3  4613   53.632       16.62%    16.56%       10.49%
Loe   Antio,                      17%      14%        13%       11%       n.e.       n.e.        Ro..
No. of Connections             12,S7U   1.040   25,316    31,222       10.96%      S.66%       3.16%
C.sumpt,nU/Conn oetin              U09      719     1.169     1,716      5.11%    10.12S%       6.6%
N" Coaerctions/yr (Ttal)                                                 I t16      1.255        *66
Add.-on                                                                n..        n.e^.      906
lxten1oen                                                              n e       n.e            0
T tEl  11111                22.039   67.243   122.309   202.443      24.44%    12.71S%       0.7%
Less Ratio                        20%      20%       1%        11% S     ne.        n.e.       .ne.
No. of C*onectiots             16.600   30,193    36.365    69.676      IS.6%       4.92%       7.69%
Con_swptisn/Connectlen          1,479    2,227      3,16      3,361      7.32%      7.437%      0.9$%
New Ceenoctions/yr (Total)                                               3,374      1.638 6     3,62
Agi-ons                                                                n.e.       n.e.       2,913
extension                                                              R.e.       ".e.
ML
TeiIE1 1-                       3,360   16,361   26,460    4,"4         53 01%      *.76%       11.90%
Loss Rtio                         44%      17%        17%       11%       n.e        n ere
No. of Connettions              0.447   12,660    17.341    2C.976        7.4%      6.050%      6093%
Coememption/Connection            363    1,460      1.46      1,724     42.36%      0.24%       2.72%I
w Cennectios/yr (Total)                                                     703       936      1.940
Add-on"                                                                n..        n. *6
entangiln                                                              n .e      nO.e.         64
Tote" *lo                       6,663   13,011    23.,62    44.100      23.17%    12.32%       11.26%
LOSm Ratio                        29#      32%        14%       11%        n.e.      n.e.        n.e.
Ne. of Connections             12,060  21,456    26,00       3C.976      16.49%     6.21%       6.0S%
Conswmptlon/Connoct1en            J49       6"        602     1.131       6.66%     6.76%       6.90%
Now Connections/yr (Total)                                               2,34       1,608       I,e4
Add-oen                                                                n.e.       n.e.         *31
Extension                                                             "n..        n.a.         633



- 62 -
ANNEX 4 1
Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ELECTRIFICATON REVITALIZATION PROJECT
NATIONAL ELEC MRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION
Project Details
1.        Tho proliminary design of the proposed project is based on the
data collectod for the preparation of the RIMP and Evaluation Reports
prepared by NEA in cooperation with the RECs. When the project starts,
-he areas will be surveyed and actual bills of material will be prepared.
In order to start the project, about 50X of equipment and material will be
procured under a first tranchc without preparing the detailed survey and
design. A second trancho of procurement, to follow about six months
later, will be based on the result of detailed survey and design and will
include additional equipment and materials and adjustments in quantities
required to be made out of the first procurement.
2.        It is estimated that  no proposed project would consist cf the
rehabilitation of around 1,4b0 km of line and the extension of around
4,897 km of line. All lines would be on wooden poles. The main features
of the lines are summarized below:
Rabilitation        Extension
(km)              (km)
3 - phase             511.15          331.89
2 - phase             221.05          370.54
1 - phase             372.66        2,345.29
Over Service          179.33          737.22
Underbuilt            175.96       1112 22
Total               1,460.15        4,897.16
3.        There will be 40 new and 15 upgraded substations equipped with
either 5 NVA, 10 HVA or 20 KVA 69/13.2 kV transformer as follows:
5 MA       1   VA                     AL
Substation (No.)                                                  55
Transformers (No.)            33           23          4          60
Total Capacity (NVA)         165          230        160         555



- 63 -
AMXN.1
Page 2 of 3
nistribution Transformers and C&paoitors
4.        The distribution networks included in the project will include
sonm 21,000 distribution transformers for a total capacity of around 450
IVA, and sone 1,600 low tension capacitors with a total reactive capacity
of around 100 KVAr, as follows:
Transformer                                      Total
Unit Caioaeity (kVA             Nube            Cai2acitv (kVA)
10                       7,181              71,810
15                       5.580              83,700
25                       6,833             170,825
50                         981              49,050
100                         404              40,400
167                          21               3,507
TOTAL                      21,000             419,292
Capacitor                                          Total
Unit CaDacity (kVAr             Number         Caoacitv (kVAr)
25                         659              16,475
50                         459              22,950
100                         360              36,000
150                         10               16 200
1,586              91,625
consumer Connections
5.        It is estimated that the above infrastructure woul" enable the
following connections to the consumers:
1992  1993   1994      1925    ~Total
Connections
Rehabilitation           11,471      5,648      1,337        1,897    20,353
Add-on                   35,887    31,903      30,607       30,000   128,397
Rehabilitation/Add-on   22,402    13,412       13,434       20,564    69,812
Expansion                62,628    30 368      26L068       39 884   158L948
TOTAL                   132,388    81,331      71,446       92,345   377,510



- 64 -
ANNEX 4 1
Page 3 of 3
SuRport Facilities for the RECs
6.        These would include mainly vehicles, tools, communLcation and
testing equipment and computers as follows by type and approximate
quantity:
Maintenance and Utility Trucks                         36
Lineman's and Construction Tools Set                  568
Communicative Equipment (Radio)                       253
Testing and Recording Equipment                       349
(Power factar, merger, loss tester, etc.)
Computers                                             163
Zonal R_Air Facilities-and Mobile Substation
7.        Seven mobile substations will be made available to complement
the zonal repair facilities that was funded under the Energy Sector
Project. The substations will serve as back-up in cases of emergency or
during instances where substations are to be shut down for maintenance
purposes. One main zonal center shall be set up in Manila to take care of
major repair of equipment such as Ire-manufacturing' of transformers, etc.
while about six (6) regional repair centers shall service provinces.



- 65 -                           ANEX 4.2
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECr
NATIONAL ELECMRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION
Outline of Project Evaluation Reports
The basic content of the PERs prepared by NEA in cooperation with the
RECs would be as follows:
1.   Executive Summary
2.   Characteristics of the Rural Electric Cooperative
2.1 Socio-Economic Characteristics
2.2 Technical and Operational Performance Status (including
information regarding quality of service (outages))
2.3 Financial Performance Status
3.   Demand Forecast
The factors sustaining the forecast would be summarized (e.g.
increase in the number of consumers and/or consumers consumption for
residential consumers in relation to national average; possibility of
one or more major new medium voltage consumer(s) and/or extension of
commercial and industrial projects.
4.   The Proposed Project
4.1  Five-year Planning Profile
4.2  Project Description
-    Technical:  major components (rehabilitation, add-ons,
expansion)
-    Cost
-    Implementation Responsibilities and Schedule (completion of
final design, receipt of equipment and materials,
construction and commissioning)
5.   Economic Evaluation and Benefits
(impact on system losses would be emphasized not only in percentage
terms but with supporting analysis and specification of remedial
neasures and actions)
6.  Authorization of the Proposed Project
7. Recommendations for Loan Conditionalities (including summary of PIP)



- 66 -
Page 2 of 2
Appendices
1.  Attachment A:  Description and Assessment of the Recommended Project
2.  Attachment B:  Financial Statoments and Projections (Flve-year
projections uslng the three principal financial
documents: Income Statement, Balance Sheet, and
Sources and Uses of Funds)
3.  Attachment C:  Performance Improvement Program
4.  Attachment D:  Map and/or Network Single Line Diagram



904  Ot   W17    0t            ex       MT  w      at       U 7t        in      all 5  AaR
ErI 0      "IV    SWU           gt   Kt            5*9      MT         is?   1f    ^1r   m i ixn
o o   'T                       M                   to                  s                            a
01      mr9                  199     0           An1     0           99AN I              5         NW
tw          MTON               91      M't O      IK      IW7    O Ut          1O   Act   AN  _     miw
my?  0     so       -          0        of1        I5 aIT              Air      env        kV        -o
*  a          T 0 N            E                                       ff 1s1 DIE          DIll
SOTAR    Ut         0           aK      0    N'             UPI at   I          MIT  on    so 3S  t
or   o     get               ,~ 91      msr                191U                 9
Mv  .9    *1        RE         of       git         of      WIT  19     aN      607  #9a5          N g
*    NI   0O                    1*1                 I t tat            Et            997 w  # 
:  at   owl          n      t                S      l            a     ad                  w do  7     X  Z
AOT  0   O      t O       O             Ur t    a            *         at       in         up   t 7
Wl  a1    EN?T      WI          toe     10I 9      fig      miW   9    to       0IT 9      gf5*f   co
M95  *     IN?    0             Ut      0          Po      IN          9W      99          -w   NaminINY
*    O     NIT                 a                   P  Ot         a     A7            Ad    ff IX tV   1
19  0      WIT    SC           SW       fit 1n              au         do       0           M7       Comm0
e SW   OOt7                    0             1C   t1t            AP    5            a1   I1    52W
IX   NC1   S       0           9K       0    Op   SW        IX   of    kV       0    De   Ut       3d
ts   No   to^       4tt                      dr    ofr t1               m            a"    of o   7
*    m9    t7                  O1             S    *#            NI   Ut             MI   t07O1
o5  LwS    N       Art        9W       051  it    oI      Aon a        Ct      au   Ut    9W       DlJa
o    s      MT     0           m    tCD    t' ea                 ea    00      10 S  ax7  of   onacmw
991 Kt7 W?    0                B        w    -        i    t tNt   *tN   0  g   SWI NI
owl PTt   ori    for            nt      on0  Suo   &AT    lar  mo   $fis    ton- Su   pfif7          o 2ow
MIT  01    MT       19         M1       E105 01   SW1      W7 01              9 ol01 05    W          1.4
W1I  mff    my      0          1       0    0     ox      1NO  n7l   SWr       99   I1   DEE         Naw
A35  801  ANT       0           .9      0    a0    art    sA            01      wv   us    WI'      USWI
*    .91   51*1       ot                     K     PSt PA        0     9             5     W17       WWY
e" pi 5tJ                             a            SW            d     Om       0    U       7      Room
*    if       l                El            K       I           K     U t           K     999   ONWO
MT I        1a     0    0      of 0          0      -      A99   0     aw o17  t                     169Wy
e 1i   SWO                     SW             1    SW            1     W      J      1    En M   t AI
0    51    R37                 of            8       1    ptS          5l            Sp    O7  Z=w
1917 Wtr    WY      11         MP       go   9  t AD        I7         WA       0 o        NIT U7    o
0    Ut R                      of            5t   0p            55     &            5    on      lAIYn3
KS?  De   At?    AD           cU       t1o   8     5t      OP, 9       me       0    A1"   IN?           If
0    my   we                   0             a    a9             ST   AV             39    Wit   5CO70
E"T  *1    am      W19 1         t      WI  p      Ut       1991  p      tW   o      P     Ut    SUtmb
35  *0    51      OU 211               9f   #9 tI          119  5    4      091   01Bi
MtT  rl    AAT     tZ          si       Nwtf ff   mt        I7  fL    ar       or  of       MT    larm
AN   AN    9?      Mt         U        91  Sol 0r          9p 9 Or   kg        o          130 *1   
O    a     03?        *                       K      t           N     Pn           Uot   9t        Dm9?
o    MPf  GMT                  tic           ir    Ur            of   dof            t     nf       0cmp
EtI  51   1art                 ElI      St   9     DC      K    9      ea       St   9     of        oivm
u    la    1V7t1   0            WI    o    Sn    SWI  t          Ad    0t9      M  t        MT      EWNE
o    5t1    WI                 for      A"      w        ,P  D    El    at      A    w     to     Nt
a    PtA    APA                m             Ka     A7    SW            MT      ttY        10     EWInW
0    P5  n1 t7                  au          oUt  t1               5z1   m             9    NI         am
*    W     1911         m               m                        155g   a  t   SW  to   Et   t           W
a    *PC   OP T    osn         A,s      m  ftt7 *11  tO'a              at    PUt  fy
tUt  -    NP                    0       IO  S 1t1  99      115 Ot    O Utt      191  591   U7
MT?   5    SAaT    0        IMr  ~ rog'Ia          In      0   for   Mr       0   10N    mEla
W                          -P MWWm ___                             _    W W
uisl             WI) am            mu r  w
3D t1 O            1  W ti7  
. . ,v  *-WW    NrWVR azS
I~~~~~~    : 



- 68-
RUA LECTIRWIATION RKVrAIZATION MM=I~
a~ 1.     2   I O-
*03  803                  188*                      103                     T~~~~~~~orAL
JP=        2RM       toe2             .9 1.010 442  7.25OO  m     1    48    4.38       Lou1               0     3247      Z71413d
BU             14131    1.1PS  8.07       15.770     No8  3.44       207   1.34  3411         288            41J8      58.97    491 M1
LLUM        .      L4a*   L.0        Xno       Na   LWa         g    2s1.191i           A12            Li"n      xm8      low   Ad"
*           ?~~~~A1.M        LAI   67                 Am1    2731                 42   Am4                 in3                     MEd   2761          0
Wx4m        18.814   23               12858    23-               TM3   2.8                AM                       48.478    2149      0
PAlE W.W        87       am   287        18.98     au5  LWM        121    XS  4.738          LOU5           19       31.0       751 It"4
rA*KNM          88       4.55            2081      193              03    3.3               Ziff                     14WM    LIM7        0
PA*WM           3.8       974  1.138V    27.58      974  1.43       18.09    974  I91U       1148.               0     METE4   292   Y.413
ZAAM1           1.8        di    175      1280      04     J2-       2.4      at    174       1.391              0     18.8       ISO   4Sp
ZAA*M            "is1   Iwo               is53    1.02               809    O                I07" 15                            6.08      0
AU*tZW          5.38      1w              L.".       9               1.475    di                 0                      AM        237      0
PLNW        A8.58    L.0       0      7.490    1.03   ad=        242   Lw    197          L403           1.07      21.51    3.x8   4
O4mWI     468     939  8.CM       21.U7      753   8.80      4.121    up1 am.        1.12IJ 2W                 3 AV      .MO  23.273
QOzw=           201D7      38Li1"         2017       38  8149       201?     is  LAO0        1017           91i       SW8       114 18.511
QV  fW         1.5LOS     445               42      52                St    231                  0                      4.5    1.4        0
CAUI             187   1.79       0      5.14.3    58a   Zs           88      9   LOU6                      2.13      11.22   2415 1210
CAMORM0         7."7      749               438     73                .42    749               377                      .73    23         0
CANLMCON        9M       4        0      5.38      38   d01t        5.410    577   WEU       4.50           LAN3      38.17   2.101  9.912
CAJ1V=mm        98M      4.2             g.m 7     884              1.42    477              1.8                      13.M      1.38      0
CAMaWmff   483           'O              201       18p              Lai    174               lost                     1275        -       0
ALMCVI      409        So  8.411      d=         0A7T          239       0AIM0          Lin        0      0      103w       so 5480
ALMWA           S 3.92                    297      JV                1,887    Ni               .117                    IM         do       0
am U   .9650                    2.387     497  42v        1.437   371  515         66            5.31       07    1.42  1288
172     80r              3.5      42.7s                     Jo               3in                      *1.48    1.4*       0
CuzmX          19.4     A.8   117        1.7    Ad"~I  1.478       15.1.1   8.07     0       1.440              0     37.971   17.38   4415
A=z             8.M3    1.35  71         2111    1.149  18M         209    8         0       19M                0     11.03    3.5   4d7
tiacmu      2774   1.92   .12       12811   2.391  276         8.78   A3  207           la"8              0      38415    Z7.4974.03
Moams            .418     374  477        2196      37  17.015       iJW     Sid  9,422       2148           7.338        M 1348?   1 338710
CX 1W           1.03    1,80              AM      1.405              1.a   1.496              108                       9018   4.40       0
m      aVf      2518    4208       0      298       482  2117        201     40       0       too3              0       V.=7    42   2117
MhiEWUf         5.411   I.-=              280       471              1.738    6**                0                      9.98    203        0
z4Au           14WM                0      4.8             480        si     3.0493           2W             1448      *284         0A9.14
ZA fO M  11.23      77              1477      88               1.42    728              1.214                    13.441   3.8        0
XAA       ED'  7.775           438        3.11             8   4.M07f                 0       UV                0      18.742       0a9.m
ZA 13           28         43 w  7.249   AM         a1 448          MO       4111ILM         13            11.113     1403       lap Jk.m
*WN=             .4w           8.23       1.318           am*         SW           213           0           1.10       188        0saw8
AD 1=      1JAM      41?             3i"      43               1.0      47              1.aw                      1111    1.88*     0
5          1.743 L   488  7zoo        Low      498  7018        &s14     Am   23          07           141       am4      1.80  0r421
AM=         six0           J."0       1.i88           5         Lao           80         175           .111      dos         0U"8
AX1=            5.21    214   12778         to    1.88   8.55         888  L88        0         as                      7.25    A       21.42
AMKZD       ?.Off                     448                        887                     280                      042          0      0
Domm        985          11.0        167           51.0        1.8           LOP           0           1.39      am          038.30
DAM             88u    J.33  457        am2    Z1ff  8.            5.88  LAN9   AM7         1.447          AM0       JAM       3.27  38073
DA>MM           3.1            1.011      3.8.               0       587             0       .46               0     1jam         0  1.01
Woo1m1         4391                      4.782                      439*                     213                      16.58        a      0
15rio       47501            Ada       18.au          14.77      33.881         MISSU     1247             L918     114J1        a31.481
AL40MCW         Ad 4 i2 1.8Iss1          11.m    li37  98.8         S" 3. - 14 145867        Lev7          11J"8      2X        4383 49W
CoMA UW                        an C17    A.1             R1V        511          6.d3       27*            10        18.4         a 080



Pa 3 of 4
RUIUL EI ECITJfCONREUTALpATONJREC
4A7NL  ELECMMC47M  ADMJNSI'AUTI
Table 2.1 'PAoie Cio_M80 bv Veer
Milliox  Pesos 
L992               19I4      1995     to           192       M        199g      1995     Total
DiSTRIDLUT1ONSYSTEM(REC)         7.7      69.7      53.9      28.5    229.8        625.4    53.0    409.0    20.2    1776.6
SUPPORT FACIITIES
REC                          0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         22.4     420       42.0      19.6    126.0
mokt#JeSubewm                0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0     25.0      420        0.0     70.0
Zzel Re,., Ca_r              11.2     22.4      224       0.0      56.0         11.2      22.4     224.      14.0     7.0
NEA                          0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         14.0     25.0      20.0       0.0     70.0
Sub-el                       11.2     224       22.4      0.0      56.0         47.6    120.4    134.4       33.6    336.0
TRAINNG A TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE                        7.0      7         7.0       7.0     2J.0         35.0      35.0     35.0      35.0    140.0
ADMINSITRATION                    7.0      7.0       7.0       7.0     25.0          0.0       ao       0.0       0.0      0.0
TOTAL BASE COST                 102.9    106.1      90.3     42.5    341.5         705.0    693.4    575.4    272.5    2252.6
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES           10.3     10.6       9.0      4.3     .14.2         70.5      69.3     57.5      27.3    225.3
PRICE CONTINGENCIES              15.5     33.6      41.4     26.1    117.0          31.4      67.1     91.2      45.6    235.3
TOTAL PROJEC COST               129.0    150.3    140.8      72.9    493.0         510.2     J.J    727.4    345.7   2713.1



.l b                                 &~~~~~~~ANE4.3
Pop 4 of4
A4IM TJWALECTRl*CAiT 5T AMOM 7O
Table 12 huiec Coxvu bY
199    J9-03   LA9W    L99    TOW        LM9   .t99     104    J5    Tool
DISTRIBUTO7N SYVSTM (REC     25      2.5    1.9    1.0    5.2         22 3    19.2   14.6    73    63.5
SUPPORT FACIlITIES
REC                    ao      0.0    0.o    0.o    0.0         0.5    1.S    1.5      a 7     4.5
Mobile tafku           0.0    0.      0       0.0    0.0        a.o    L.o    1.5    0.o       25
ZwJRepmr Cwier         0.4     0      0.5    0.0      20        a4      0.5   a0       0.5    2.s
NMA                    0.0    0.0     0               0.0       0.5     L       1.0    0.      Zs5
SMb-to                 0.4    0.5    0.5    0.0    2.0          1.7    4.3    4.5    1.2   12o
TRAINW & TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE                   0.3     a3      a3      a3      1.0       1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    5.0
ADMINSITRATION               a3      a3      a3      0.3    1.0        0.0    0.0     ao      ao      .o
TOTAL BASE COST              3.7    3.r    12        1.5    12.2      25.3   24.5    M.7    9.7   sa5
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES       0.4     a4      0.3     a2      1.2       2.5    25      21      1.0    to
PRICE CON7TIWENCIES          0.5    1.0    1.2    0.7    3.3           .O     20      2.5    1.2    6.7
71OTAL PROJECT COST          4.5    5.2    4.7    2.4   16.          25.5   29.2   253    11.9   95.2



W    Ye I U; ji ii fii
s.llf ii  I
1L~~~~~~~~ 0
~~~~.. 
-~ ~~~  It 



- 72 -
PHILIPPIE
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVITALTION PROJECT
NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTnTION
DlbuueautScewdule
(US$ Mifla)
Bank TY and    Half Yearly                                           Standard
ain K           DflLhunusumnt        CmU1      a        LsCuulative  XPol- (X)
1992 I
II            2.0                 2.0              2.5            0.0
1993  I             3.0                 5.0              6.3            3.0
II            3.0                  8.0            10.0            6.0
1994  I             5.0                13.0             16.3           14.0
II           10.0                23.0             28.8           18.0
1995  I            15.0                38.0             47.5           26.0
II           20.0                 58.0             64.4          34.0
1996  I            18.0                76.0             84.4           46.0
II           10.0                 86.0             95.6          58.0
1997  I             5.3                91.3            100.0           66.0
II                                                                74.0
1998  I                                                                82.0
II                                                                86.0
1999  I                                                                94.0
II                                                                98.0
2000  I                                                               100.0
.1/ In the absence of standard profile for the power sector in the
Philippines, the "all sector" profile is the reference.



eH mlS                                                NNEX4.8
RURAL ELECRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
N&ION   ELE CTRIC                  91EN
ma    wfdn WQ l ma
REC DISTRIBUTIOt SYSTEM 
hEDmotI  ThLmd                          TR 1TR 2
Ddelyof Materials                                     TR I         TR 2
Substaloanda LieDealgn
Lh and Substation
c~on                                                       __d
Co _mer Connection 
SUPPORT FACILMES. 
Zonal Repair Center
Tendr                                          _
Devey of Maral
an consrcton_
TRIBNING & TECHNIAL
ASSISTANCE
Recrtment of Constant
TR * Tr& .  m onesponrlt to about 50% of equipment and materil



- 74 -3NEL4.
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPPINE8
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
NATIONAL ELECRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION
REC's Perfrma    Improvment Prora
Gnral Oblectivec of tha ParformaneIroan  Peam
1.        As an lnterestod lender, NRA ha. developed ui new approach to
address the problems that hamper the operatLon. of most of the RiCe, to
improve thelr overall operatlonal efficlency, and thus, their creUit
worthiness.
2.        The Porformance Improvemnt Programs (PIP) were developed to
revitalLze the rural electrificatlon operation. by concentrating on five
mjor area. of improvement of REC performnces:
(a) Reduction of technical losses;
(b) Reduction on non-technical losses;
(c) Improvement of collection efficiency;
(d) Bettor 5ontrol of non-power costs;
(a) Quallty of Service;
3.        The PIPs wlll lnclude a series of concrete moeaures simed at
improving performance of the RECa Ln the above area. They will define
preclse action steps, implementation scheduloe, deployment of manpower and
other resources needed, and quantitative targets for the various
categorles of me.ures. Once a PIP is agreed wLth a UEC, lts satisfactory
implementation will become conditionallty of NEA's loans to the RiCa.
Implementation of the PIPs should be followed closely through an
approprlate monitoring system.
4.        Measures included under the fLrat four headings cover all
possLble actions wlthln a REC's control that would contrlbuto to
increasing that RiC's gross internal cash generation (at given bulk and
retall tarlffs, and for a glven volume of final electrLeLty consumption):
-    reducLng technical loses (Ltem  (a)) (mainly heat losses ln
distributlon lines and transformors will reduce power costs
for a given level of final consumption (blled or not),
while ltem (d) aims dlrectly at reducing non-power costs;
-    reducLng non-technlcal losses (item  (b)I will Lncrease  the
amount of kilowatt-hours blled, to a level which should be
closo to the amount actually consumed (legally or not);



-75 -                         AM. A.2
Page 2 of 4
-    improving collections litem (c)J wlll, for a given aoount
of kilowatt-hours billed, increase tho cash that is
actually collected by the REC.
S.        As concerns the quality of service (item (e)], the PIPs will not
establlsh, for the tima being, specific performnce targets other than
those that mom. of the more advanced RECs may want to aet for themselves.
Rather, at this stage, the sore appropriato goal is to generalize
progresslvely, starting with tho RECs that are better equipped, a new and
efficient approach for the monitoring of systen reliability. Not only
would the evaluation of performance improvments be incomplete without a
way of monitoring service reliabllity, but also the new monitoring systen
should greatly facilitate for the REC. the identification of network
sections that require reinforcements.
Global Indicators of  eefr anc  Tanvmenta
6.        The PIPs will be designed as a set of detailed action progr ams
aiming to addross the main issues faclng the poorer performing RECs over a
three year period. The final stop of their preparation wlll be to set
-annual targets with respect to four global performance indLcators to
measure improvements that are expected to result from the imploemntation
of the planned measures. In fact, the monitoring of performance
improvements over time, based on these four global indicators, will bo
applied to all RECs. The initial review of these lndicators wlll also
serve as a basis for the design of the PIPs. These indicators, as well as
medium term targets for the second half of the 1990s, are as follows:
I.NDICATOR       ,                 EDIW TER  TARGET
LOSS RATIO                               12-15X
RECEIVABLES IN DAYS OF BILLING           60 DAYS
NON-POWER COST PER CUSTOMER              250-400 PESOS at
MINUTES OF INTERRUPTION PER CUSTOMER    NONE AT THIS STAGE
St 1990 prices
Contgnt and Preparation of the PIPs for Individual RICa
7.        The attached Geoneric Performance Improv emet Program' detaLls
generally accepted activities to be impl emented by the RECs to address
their speciflc problems. This generic plan, which will be discussed
further below, shall be tailored according to the specific areas of
weaknosses of each PEC, and would require inputs from the REC's management
and technical staff. Based on this, a detailed program to improve the
performance of individual RECs would be developed.
S.        The degre  of detail of the PIPs will be adapted to the current
performances of individual RECs. Those that are good performers In all
areas may not need a PIP, and in such cases one of the conditionalities of
NSA's loans would simply be to maintain satisfactory performanco
indlcators. For others, the PIP may concentrate on only one area.
Finally, RICa that cannot be considered as poor performrs but for which
there is substantial room for progress, the PIP may be limited to



-76 -                         NNn  4.7
Page 3 of 4
acceptable annual objectives for the improvemnt of a given indicator.
For poor performrs, on the other hand, a detailed action plan will have
to be established, and implementation of the PIP will be monitored
closely.
9.        The tec_nical loss reduction iggeam (item  a) includes measures
that, upon implementation, would reduce those network losses, mainly heat
losses, linked to technical characteristics of the network such as
conductor and transformer loadings, and network due to liproper
insulation. These losses are the difference, due to the physLcal law of
electricity, between the energy purchased from NPC and the amount actually
consumed, be it billed or not, by consumrs.
10.       Under the technical loss reduction program, suggested activities
are classified under two categories.
1.   Immediate Activities -   those include activities that the
RECs can readily introduce and
implement without significant
investment in material or
equipment.
2.  Longer term Activities - these include neasures that would
require some study because of the
amount of investment in goods or
equipment needed for their
implemntation. This can be
packaged into the REC's investment
program by CORPLAN.
11.       One example of a measure that can be implemented immediately and
periodically without much investment, is the balancing of loads on
feeders. One example of a measuro that requires preliminary noasurements
and analysis, and would be included in of the investment program, is the
installation of shunt capacitors.
12.       The non-techical loss geduction urom   (item (b) measures
that, upon implementation, will Lnerease the energy mtered end billed to
consumers with respect to the emount actually consumed. In addition to
attacking the various forms of theft of electricity by consumers, it will
address some of the RECs operational policies and procedures related to
meter reading, billing, disconnection, and meter testing.
13.           collection effici       ooa  (item c) will Include measures
that increae the REC's effectiven ss at collecting payments for current
consumption and arrears. Such measures could include a reinforcement
and/or a stricter application of REC policy on overdue accounts, measures
aiming at making it easier for customers to pay their bill, and improved
procedures for billing and monitoring overdue accounts. Measures to
reduce arrears, may also include, when justified, agree-ants with
customers on arrear settlement schedules.



- 77 -                        NNEX 4.7
Page 4 of 4
14.       Non-Poer _Cost (item d) ia the aggrogato total of operating
expenses excluding the cost of power purchasea. Thla is normally composed
of:
the Administrative and General expenses related to the
adminlstratLve personnel;
-   consumer account exponses, including expenses related to
metor readers/colloctors and to the entlre personnel of the
billlng section of a REC; and
-    expenses related to oporatlon and maLntenance by the
engineering personnel.
Non-power cost is composed mostly of salaries, followed by transportatlon
and traveling expenecs, per dio and honoraria, end other operating
overhead, in the ordor of theLr signlficance.
15.       No ganeric progrem is proposed for non-power coats.  They are
directly linked with menagement measures; therefore, speclfic programs
that may relate to staffing or to the reductlon of specifLc expense items
as well as annual objectives for the level of non-power costs per
customer, will be dLscussed dlrectly with poorly performing RECs.
16.       As discussed previously, there is no generic program concerning
O&aLIt of servi>- (item 3). At thls stage, the program will consist
essentially ln a schedule for establishing and applylng the systms and
procedures needed to prepare Monthly Intarruption Reports (see Form 2
attached). Measures that will permit ioprovements in service reliability
are related to network rehabilitation (Lnvestent program), improved
operation and maintenance practLecs, and improved network design. Such
measures might be gradually integrated in future PIPs, notably after the
completion of a review of maintonance guLdelines and monitorlng systems.
Some measures relatlng to maintenance are already lncluded ln the
technical loss-reductLon program.
Monitoring of the PIP&
17.       In conjunction wlth NEA lending, each REC would be required to
demonstrate that it is lndeed imple entLng the agreed action steps on a
continuous basLs. In additlon, the REC's performance indLcators will be
monltored to establish that it is improvlng and approachlng the agreed
targets.
18.       Monitoring of PIPs will be performed in part through the MFSR,
the PIP MonLtoring Form 1 (see attached), Monthly Service Interruptlon
Reports (see Form 2 attached), schedules/unscheduled visLts, special
progress reports that may be agreed wlth the ECs, and supervisLon of the
lnvestmnt program.



- 78 - 
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRAION
Schedule of SupervIson Activities and Mssilons
AWROXl.                                                HXpEc1D SUIL             ffAF
MAT8 DAM                    ACnIVrrY                                               MWQUIRE115  WI
(MO/YR)                                                                  _   (li  Wob)
MM             ReIw of bd4a  omume                   Pose Eagmee4
sS                                                    Pm-o _d                       4
12/           SURVISION MION
Review of RCS Appru Repouim          Flaiu AmIul                   53.0
__                                        BMw E_ _
1.U/92        v Reve of bid docubmam  NWd eatio      Pow EAI60
- Review of EC'. Apps. RaCM           FMae Amlik
10.11/92      SUPRVISION MISSION                     PM         Amiy                S
- Reviewofl apso I Mimp luplmnamlio   Pose Euglaer
* PMacfUatm W ON                       MW  =Dmi
1-293         SUPVISON MION                         _mUu A_                         4
- Review of NMA's bvlavumef rme       Fave: Eolagim
*. P    l     e                           3eEm   oco.i
- Reviw of NM's fi11cl pu e  _
1.12/9         Reve of Bi Domea_  Evuluuuom Rqpt  Pmr B_aseg0
10.11/93      SUPERVISION MION                       p_uma                    S_
- Reiw of NBA's _fidml   _for.me      Pow E1agase
* Review of NBA's lovesbaost Pies
.  1P                  KUM> 1~
* -  _  amomm -
20.11/9%f      SU VIWI MSION (AmN l)                 Flauh Ahl                     2.0/yr
- Reiw d   No A'S lha  pu.macw Power ari_meuag
- PP                    so"mE_o _o__
4U/9"9         R_vimwafDiDoum, BMmW a po             Pe Eassaui IN                 20/r
ead IvImmamim Props (comawuom
mm             SUPRVION MISION                       FmcI Amui F0
* P     -dof Kat                     Pow  Emmue



- 79 -
PHILIPPINES                            Annex 5.1
Rural Electrification Revitalization Prolect
National Electrification Administration
Historical Balance Sheet
(in MM Pesos)
1986     1987      1988      1989      1990
ASSETS
Current Assets
Csh                                     177       233       234       261       760
Investments                               0         0       196       339       113
Inventories                            1,242    1.263     1,140       843      1,165
Other Receivables                       392       510       645       812       943
Loans Receivable-RECs                   369       473       612       808       889
Subtotal                            2,180     2,479     2,827     3,063     3,870
Long-term Assets
Loans Receivable-RECs                 5,858     7,105     7,690     7,894     8,152
Other                                   161      1,999      178       284       419
Subtotal                            6,019     9.104     7,868     8,178     8,571
TOTAL ASSETS                            8,199    11,583    10,695    11,241    12,441
minm=- =sG = minmmmm minmmmmmmmmi
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Current UabilIties
Payables                              1,990     2,993     3,722     4,680     5,210
Other                                   327        75        76        77        71
Subtotal                            2,317     3,068     3,798     4,757     5,281
Long-term Uabilities
Foreign Borrowings                    3,447     5,607     5,627     5,556     6,267
TOTAL UABILITIES                         5,764     8,675     9,425    10,313    11,548
Capital & Surplus
Paid In Capital                       2,261     2,961     3,084     3,360     3,942
Accu. (Defecit)/Earnings                  2      (231)   (1,993)   (2,663)   (3,280)
Other                                   172       178       179       231       231
TOTAL CAPITAL                            2,435     2,908     1,270      928       893
TOiALUAB. & EQUITY                       8,199    11,583    10,695    11,241    12,441
.. .. ,.mm.... -- .. 



- 80 -
PHILIPPINES                             Annex 5.2
Rural Electrification Revitalization Project
National Electrification Administration
Historical Income Statement
(in MM Pesos)
1986      1987      1988      1989      1990
Operatng Income
Interest on Loans                         263       284       340       306       297
Operating Expenses
Interest Expense                          184       378       365       361       232
Personal Services                          33        38        47        69        70
Other                                      14        22        31        43        42
Subtotal                                231       438       443        473       344
Income From Operations                      32       (154)     (103)     (167)      (47)
Other Income                                S        13        34        90        54
Government Subsidies & Grants               0         0         0       522       616
Realized FX Losses                          0      (102)     (149)        (7)     (871)
Other Extr. Gain/(loss)                     0         0         0       (522)     (459)
Subtotal                                  5        (89)     (115)       83      (660)
NET INCOME/(LOSS)                           37       (243)     (218)      (84)     (707)
===== ======= -= ===-========
Adjustments From Prior Years
Interest Income                            0        12         22       (51)        0
Interest on FX Borrowings                  0         0       417       (141)        0
FX (Losses)/Gains                          0         0    (1,983)      (345)        0
Other                                      0         (2)        0       (49)       90
Subtotal                                  0        10    (1,544)      (586)       90
ADJ NET INCOMEI(LOSS)                       37       (233)   (1,762)     (670)     (617)



-81 -
Annex 5.3
PHILIPPINES
Rural Electrification Revitalization Proiect
National Electrification Administration
Financial lmplicagons of the Bail Out Plan
(in MM Pesos)
Year-End          Bail-Out             Adjs.
1990              Adjs.              1990
ASSETS
Current Asts
Cash                                337                                  337
Investments                        113               -                   113
Inventories                       1,165              (742)               423
Other Receivables                  935               (613)               322
Loans Receivable-RECs              888               (402)               486
Subtotal                       3,438             (1,757)             1,681
Long-term Assets
Loans Receivable-RECs             8,163             (3,408)            4,755
Other                             1,291             (1,135)              156
Subtotal                       9,454             (4,S43)             4.911
TOTAL ASSETS                       12,892             (6.300)            6.592
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Current Uabilities
Payables                          5,140             (5,133)                7
Other                               75                (42)                33
Subtotal                       6,215             (5,175)               40
Long-term Uabilitles
Foreign Borrowings                6,267             (6,267)
TOTAL UABILITIES                   11.482            (11,442)               40
C4atal & Surplus
PNid In Captl                     3.655             3,930              7,585
Accu. (Defecit)Earnings          (2,476)             1,212             (1,264)
Other                              231               -                   231
TOTAL CAPITAL                       1,410              5,142              6,552
TOTAL UAB. & EQUITY                12,892             (6,300)             6.592



- 82 -
PHIUPPINES                                                    Annex 5.4
Rura Eis1Irefieon R     _nItaligatio Proc1
Natona VeMct**m Admnnrn
INCOME STATEMENT
(in MM PeoN)
1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996       1997      1990      1999      2000
OPERATIG REVENUES
h" "wZ4fned                       301       461        642       965      126       1590      1778       1917      2021      2100
Osmffese.g &A Sre Fcs              11         9          7         5         5         5         5          5         5         5
LS  CO t of Funds                 30        76        142       199       291       357       377       369        346       315
Les Leon PregWone                296       322        346       36        359       432       499        564       S96       659
Laos FX Lo.  Psev.                 0         32        76       165       299       33        313        291       425       46
LSow Cumaoo Foo                    0         4         12        20        45        59        64         64        61        56
MNeLsedInIneom                    -14         36        71       212       276       410       530        635       596       60
OTHER OPERATINO REVENUES
MasWIIHarndingFe"e                 0        a6        100       143       125       110       110        100       100       104
COop  .pporflSer es               26        26         31        34        37        41        45         50        55        6o
ooms, FrmDep.&See,                20         44        71        30        31        63        114       125       140        153
ToflOfweOp. Resnues                48        136       202       206       194       234        270       275       295        317
OPERATING PROFIT                   34        174       273       416       470       644        600       910       691       928
EXPEINSES
bgo&i   A Personnel              104        114       120       138       152       167        164       203       223       245
Iens   I AAdlfcn. Exp.            57        63         69        76        84        92        101       111       123       135
ToUSaIinI s eAdmin.                161       177       195       215       236       200        266       314       346        360
Deprsoton & Amoft.                 5          a        28        46        46        46         46        46        40         46
ToWE apene                         166       165       223       261       262       306        332       360       392        426
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES & EXTR.       .132       .11        50       158       168       339        465       550       500        499
Ikome TanXs                         0          0        17        55        66        116       164       192        175       175
NET INCOME                        .132       .11        32       102       122        220       304       357        325       324



- 83 -
PHIulPPINES                                               Annox 5.4
RUral IMivfcatlon Neviliftatiaon Project                              (Coninuod)
Naional Eefl_catkon Adminlatraon
FLOW OF FUNDS STATEMENT
(In MM P"Os)
1991      1992       1093      1994      1995       1900      1997       1909       1999      2000
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
NatFPIN teresEXP.                 .132        14        112       266       401        577       61         726       071        640
Add: D0pmoIaon  P                    5         a         26        46        40         46        46         46         46        40
Add: P orIn                       296        354        424       833       6S9        770       612        g55       1023      1126
Low. Ovkwed Rv.                      0       46        .100      .143       .125      .110       *110      *0@       .100       .104
OPeealngCoo Flow                    103       309        465       705       9J1       1282      1429       1527       1640      1707
Add:U gCaOhPoslion                  20        20         22        24        27         30        32         36         39        43
Won Cap ncW(D0e)                  -260      -302        211       267       .149       .26         38        .10        30        47
CO _08"                           334        429        557       746      1030       1270      1513       1679       1901      2191
CASH BEfORE DEST SERVICE            S00      1061        632      1191      2157       2607       2937      3259       3530      3J95
0ST 0ERVICE
Costof Funds                         0        25         60       166        279       357        377       369        346        315
PdneplPRpaym.nts                     0         0          0         0        129       256        256       225        436        436
Cortr forFXLo                        0         2         10        33        111       199        265       266        454        505
foW D0bt Sevce                        0        26         90        199       519       614        890        679      1235       1256
CASH AFTER DEBTSERVCE               6oo      1035        742       992       1666      1794       2047      2370       2314       2636
EmSINAL SOURCES
pX aowoaln                           0       731        693      1941      2020       1090        490          0         0          0
Foron  knmnin                      009       373          0        95         07        71          0          0         0          0
oLt Subhidy                       300        250        200       150        150       150        150        150       1S0        150
enamment Equity                    200         0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0
ToW Elaemal Sourcn                 1169      1354       1093      2186       2237       1311       640        150        150       150
CASH FOR LOANS & INV.              1909      2389       1635      3176       3905      3105       2667       2529      2464       2766
D6gb. NEC Loa  (not)              1400      1570       2200      3000       2050      2350       2350       2150      2160       2226
PUfhae of AJ"ts                      0        56        356         0          0         0          0          0          0         0
AddiWContlb. toFXFund                2        161      10          97       127         80        09         19         20        21
Add: Cash Endn Sal.                 20        22       * 24         27        30         32        36         39         43        48
REC Lndlng a kw.                   1422       1609      2741      3123       2606      2462       2475       2206       2213      2295
TOTAL CASH SUR/(DEF)                56        560        .906        55      1009       .643       :'2        321        251       494
I camsh uplue:
Cah Aah      ForII                "a        ag0          0         55      1099        643       212        321        251       494
Dlbullonn To Oovt                    0          0         0          0         0          0         0          a          0          0
PURCHASE OF SECURITIES              506       So0          0         55      1099        643       212        321        231       494
SW do soIMIUse                       0          0       906          0         0          0          0         0          0          0
OOVT. CONTRBUTIONS                    0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0          0
a.niaUUumm.liiU,imiiUiiinnnUfmiminIUSninn*iimmiU.ninnnaimmninimimm



- 84 -
PHIUPPINES                                              Annex 5.4
Runa EC  _#ftatn R _vltalaton Projt                                (Coninued)
National Etbrflcaflon Adlnlraln
BALANCE SHEET
(In MM Poe)
ASSETS                           1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      190       1900      2000
Cash                               20        22        24        27        30        32        36        39        43        45
Depouts Wth anks                  263       153       216       295       173       154       154       141       141       146
lInvw9 MSft In ocuwWo            663      1243       337       392      1491      2134      2346      2007      2917      3411
hWtr tR csvsS                      75       11S       160       241       316       398       444       479       505       525
afwsofols                         525       307       431       5a9       520       461       461       422       422       437
Cuff. Port on Term Loans          285       309       465      6e2        928      1155      1386      1637      1901      2191
TOTAL CURRENTASSETS              1831      2210      1653      2206      3459      4333      4825      5365      S920      6757
Restuctured Loan.                 771       711       639       553       451       338       208       166       10g       166
Mdlum & Long Torm Loans          5534      6801      6617     11097    12944      14249     15324     15938     16287     16426
Lee: Bad DebtAANowance           296       616       964      1332      1692      2124      2623      3166      3785      4444
Outmnding Term Port.             5239       1ee3     7652      9765     11252     12125     12702     12751     12502     11962
Lses: Current tPortlon           285       369       485       662       928      1155      1385      1637      1901      2191
NET TERM LOAN PORTFOUO           5725      6525      7807      9656    10775      11307     11525     11281     10766      9957
Equipmmnt A Cap. Exp.              48       104       460       460       460       460       460       460       460       460
Les: Ace. Depreciation            23        30        58       104       150       196       242       266       334       360
Net Eqsupment& Cap. Exp.           25        74       402       356       310       264       216       172        126        6o
TOTAL LONG-TERM ASSETS           5751      6599      8209     10012    11085      11570     11743     11452      10603     10037
TOTAL ASSETS                     7581      6606      962      12218    14544    15904        6566     16637      1622      16704
LABIUTIES & NET WORTH
Accounts Payabl                    16        22        24        27        23        25        26        31         34        37
CurrentPorflonofDebt                0         0         0         0       129       258       258       225       436        436
Interest Payae                      0         6        27        55        93       119       126        123       115       105
TOTAL CURRENT UA8IUTIES            16        30        51        82       245       402       411       378        585       578
FX Borrowvngs                       0       731      1624      3565      5456      6268      t .120    6205      5509       5424
Alowance For FX Loase               0        30        96       231       420       558       616       621        592       553
Loe: Current Porion                0         0         0         0       129       256       258       225       436        438
TOTAL LONG-TERM LIABS.              0       761      1722      3796      5746      6588       MP7      6691      60 6       5541
Paid In CapItl                   8093      8093      8093       0093     8093      8093      8093      6093      8093       8093
Foreign Grants                    827      1200      1200      1295      1362      1433      1433      1433       1433      1433
GowtSubskNe                       811      1061      1261      1411      1561      1711      1661      2011       2161      2311
Retained Earnings               -2165     -2337      *2465    -2459    -2464       -2323     -2108     -1770     .1465     -1162
TOTAL NET WORTH                  7566      8017      6069      8340      8552      6914      9279      9767      10222     10675
TOTAL LIAS. A NET WORTH          7581      6606      9S62     12218    14543      15W04     165        lo"?7    16822      16794



- 85 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 1 of 7
PHILIPINES
RURAL ELECTIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
NATIONAL EECRIICATION ADMINSTRATION
Assumptions for Fincil Projections
A.    Model Description and PrA      Loc
A fully integrated model was developed to project NEA's financial
activity including the investments that will be financed under the Project.
The model accepts as inputs, assumptions on lending activity to the RECs,
which are directly derived from the development of their corresponding
investment programs, other revenues such as, support services fees, and
administrative and operating expenses. Other inputs to the model include
assumptions for financing, inflation and financial management policies. Year
ending 1990 balance sheet accounts, on a net of bail out basis, were also
inputs to the model in order to establish a 'clean books* starting position
for NEA. Although the bail out program will be implemented over a two-year
period, NEA will establish a separate suspense account for the bail out
related entries so that its future financial condition is represented more
accurately at the outset of the projection period, and the statements are
consistent throughout the period of the projections.
The model was programmed to simulate NEA's activity as a specialized
lending institution, according to acceptable management principles. As such,
the total funds available to NEA are allocated based on specified priorities,
with internally generated funds going first to meet requirements for increases
in working capital and debt service obligations, and secondly, to meet any
additional lending requirements. The estimated external sources of funds, both
borrowings and government equity contributions, are added as independent
variables in order to bridge any resulting financing gap. Annual cash surplus-
es are reinvested in short term securities, while deficits are deducted
against this same account to the extent that there are sufficient funds to
cover the draw. The final source of funds available to NEA would be additional
contributions to equity by the Government. However, under such circumstances,
revisions to other assumptions are considered first, such as scaling down the
lending program.
B.    Significant Acong Priiphs
The model incorporates several important accounting principles, which
influence the interpretation of NEA's projected financial statements. These
include.
1.   Accounting for Int rest Revenue.  Interest revenue is accounted on
a cash basis, since it is presumed that the collections rates
assumed reflect the true arrears situation.



- 86 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 2 of 7
2.    Allowance for Doubtful Lomns. The projections consider a general
allowance for losses on doubtful loans based on the average
arrears rate of NEA's outstanding loans. Annual provisions are non
cash items charged to the profit and loss account. No write offs
are made during the projection period of loans that have been
provided. This would not change the interpretation of the finan-
cial statoomnts, sinco NEA's outstanding loans are reflected on a
net basis, after the appropriate allowances have been made.
3.    Allowance for For.Lp Exchage IUJIk Louses. The projections
incorporato a general allowance of approximately 10 of NEA's
outstanding borrowings for which it bears a foreign exchange risk
exposure. Annual provisions are a non-cash chargos to the profit
and loss account. Annual foreign exchange losses are estimated
based on projected depreciation of the peso vis-a-vis tho US
dollar and are deducted from the total allowances made. In addi-
tion, actual losses are reflected as cash items in the Flow of
Funds Statement.
4.    ForeIgn Ezchange Trust Fund. The projections assume that NEA will
set up an "off the balance sheet " trust fund to pay for foreign
exchango cover estimated at 8X of the outstanding balance on
foreign currency denominated borrowings. The fund has been set up
similarly to an annuity where approximate equal payments are made
to meet actual and estimated future losses. The fund earns inter-
est at rate equivalent to that paid on short term securities. For
accounting purposes, NEA's contributions to the fund are deducted
directly from the retained earnings account.
5.   HaterLlas RandlIng Fee. NEA will charge a surcharge of 5X on
total procured items to cover its costs of materials handling,
warehousing and procurement related expenses. This revenue is
assumed realized when invoiced. However, NEA will add the material
handling fees invoiced to the principal amount of the loan made a
RECs. This will be treated like other loans to RECs and will earn
interest on outstanding balance until fully repaid.
C.   Assumptions to the Fimandal Projections
L Gener-al Projecton Parameter
-    Projection Period. 1991 to 2000.
-     Currzncy. Millions of pesos in current prices.
-     Inflatlon. Operating expenses are inflated at 10X per year
during the projection period. No inflation is applied to the
lending volumes since it is assumed that appropriate in-
flation rates were incorporated in the RECs' investment pro-



- 87 -
ANEXt 5.5
Page 3 of 7
grams. Accordingly, lending activity is already presumed to
be reflected at current prices.
Income Tazes. A 351 income tax rate is levied on profit
before taxes. The projection makes no provisions for carry-
ing forward losses to reduce overall tax liability. This is
not *xpected to have a material effect the derived results.
Currency Devaluatlon. An assumption about the fluctuation of
the Peso vis-a-vis the basket of currencies was derived by
taking 1 plus the Peso inflation rate and dividing it by 1
plus the foreign inflation rate. This formula resulted in an
annual depreciation rate of 6.21 throughout the projection
period.
2.    REC Lending Actvity
Restructured Loans. An estimated baiance of 9 821 million in
REC loans will be restructured at an ave;*ge interest rate
and maturity period of 121 and 7 years, respectively.
Exltlng Loan.s The balance of a 4.31 billion in outstanding
loans to RECs are carried forward bearing an average inter-
est rate and maturity period of 3.61 and 8.5 years.
Now Loans. Annual disbursements for new loans to RECs are
shown in the table on page 6 of this annex, and estimated
based on their respective investment program. Since the
second half of 1991, new loans have been priced according to
a cost recovery formula and carry an interest rate and
maturity period of 121 and 20 years, respectively. It is
assumed that the rate will be increased to 131 in 1993 and
to 141 in 1995, in accordance with the agreed formula.
Flnanclal Support to Small IZland RECs. Small island RECs
are assumed to receive financial support directly from the
Government, disbursements for which are shown in the table
on page 6 of this annex. These funds will be made available
as loans with unspecified maturities and at no interest
rate. However, NEA will charge a 3.51 service charge of the
disbursed amount to cover administrative and overhead ex-
penses related to managing this program for the Government.
Handling Charges. Handling charges for the warehousing and
materials handling functions provided by NEA on behalf of
the REC8 are calculated at 51 disbursed amounts and applied
to the principal of the REC loans.



- 88 -
ANNEX S 5
Page 4 of 7
Collectlons and Arrears Rates. Presently, NEA is experienc-
ing an overall collection efflciency on both interest and
principal of about 562. It is assumed that this performance
will improve substantially in the short term because of
several factors: (i) the bail out will relieve the RECs of
debt, the corresponding assets of which did not generate
sufficient revenues to meet servicing obligations; (ii) the
planned restructuring will spread cash payments and make the
RECs existing obligations more manageable; and (iii) NEA
will apply strict appraisal criteria for granting new loans.
Based on these factors, improvenent targets were established
whereby a 65X average collection efficiency is initially
assumed. Gradually over a five year period is expected to
move towards 851. Arrears are assumed to follow the inverse
pattern.
3.    Ftnandng Sources
Proposed Bank o-n. Approximately $91.3 million will be
made available by the Bank fc- the Project. The loan will
have a 20 year maturity and 5 year grace period, and will
carry an interest rate of 7.75X. A 11 guarantee fee will be
charged by the Government on the outstanding balance. The
entire amount of the loan waill be disburseo over a five
calendar year period with the first drawdown in 1992. Annual
disbursements are shown on page 7 of this annex.
OECF Loan. A loan for an estimated $67 million are assumed
from OECF to finance investments of RECs not included in the
proposed Bank loan. These funds will be made available for
25 years with 7 years grace and a 3.25X interest rate. The
loans will be disbursed over a five year period with the
first drawdown in 1992. Annual disbursements for the OECF
loans are shown in the table on page 7 of this annex.
Vorld Bang (Ehezrfg Sector Loan). Approximately $22 million
are programed under the current the World Bank Energy
Sector Loan of which $3 mIllion was drawn down during 1990.
The loan is estimated to be converted to equity in 1993. An
interest rate of 7.75X will be applied on the outstanding
balance during period 1990-1992. These are estimated at
P 23 million in 1991 and P 47 million in 1992. Annual dis-
bursements are shown in the table on page 7 of this annex.
USAID Grant.  It is estimated that USAID will make avail-
able approximately $37.4 million in grant funds over the
1991-1994 four year period.  Annual disbursements are shown
in the table on page 7 of this annex.



- 89 -
ANNEX 5.S
Page 5 of 7
Export Developaet Corporatlon (EDC) and the Caadian Inter-
natloal Developmnt Agncy (CIDA). EDC and Cida wMll Joint-
ly provide financing for steel transmissLon poles In the
amount of $29 million. These loans will be drawn down in
three years co mmncing in 1992.  The EDC loan will carry an
interest and maturity of 9.2X and 10 years, respectively.
Ths CIDA funds will be on-lent at no cost to NEA, but will
be repaid within ten years.
US Ezport-IZport Bank (Ezbmbank). The US Eximbank will
Jointly finance with Edison-Hubbard Corp. approximately
$21.5 million for wooden poles. These Eximbank funds will be
drawn down between 1992 through 1993 and will carry an
interest rate and maturity period of 7.44X and 8 years,
respectively. The supplier credit will be on-lent at the
same interest rate but with a shorter maturity period of
five years.
Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA). DANIDA
will provide a grant of $7 million for onlending to the
RECs. Drawdown will occur between 1994 through 1996.
Govezznent Equlty Contributions. Approximately P 200 million
in equity contributions from the Government are budgeted for
1991.
4.    Fnandal MIanagement Paramemte
Cash Posltlon. Based on days of operating expenses at ap-
proximately 45 days throughout the entire projection period.
Deposlt Vlth Banks. NEA will be required to cover letters of
credit issued for procuring equipment and materials. It is
estimated that shipments will take approximately 4 to 6
months from the time a letter of credit is opened. Accord-
ingly, it was assumed that NEA will hold an average of 90
day of the value of purchases in the form of deposits with
banks. Thls is assumed to drop to 45 days in 1992-94, and 30
days in 1995 and thereafter. Deposits with banks are as-
aimed to earn 5 on the average outstanding balance.
Ccntributlons to FZ Fund. NEA's contributions to the FX fund
are for both realized and unrealized losses. The amounts
contributed for realized losses are derived by taking NEA's
annual debt service obligations in foreign exchange at the
revalued rate less the original booked rate. Contributions
for unrealized losses are made as a component of the onlend-
ing interest rate to RECs and arL higher in the early years
in order to build up the fund quickly. Accordingly, during
1992, the portion going directly towards FX fund contribu-



- 90 -
Page 6 of 7
tions for realized and unrealized losses is 352 of the 12X
onlending rate, or 4.22. During 1993, the percentage was
reduced to about 272. Thereafter the contribution will range
between 18X to 28X of total interest income. Actual annual
contributions in Pesos an well as payments to the Government
for the foreign exchange cover are shown in the table on
page 7 of this annex. The remaining balance in the FX Fund
will be utilized as a buffer for potential increases in the
FX cover fee.
Short Trm Shcurltles. Short term securities are projected
to earn an average rate of 152 on the average outstanding
balance.
Znventories. NEA will be providing a warehousing and mate-
rials management function for staging equipment and machin-
ery and fcr holding spare parts inventories. As of the and
of 1990, NEA was holding about k 423 million in inventories
or almost 10 months of total disbursements to RECs. This is
considered excessive and agreements have been reached with
NEA to set improvement targets over the projection period.
Accordingly, inventory levels are set at 6 months during
1991, and 3 months throughout the projection period.
Interost Payable. Presently, NEA pays interest semi-annually
through the Bureau of Treasury. The projectLons have assumed
an average lnterest payable balance of 4 months during 1991,
and subsequently dropping to a 3 month balance (equating to
quarterly payments) throughout the rertining period.
Accounts Payabl. Accounts payable are based on day of
operating expenses. These are estimate at 45 days during
1992 and 35 days for the remaining of che period.



91-                                                    ANU 5.5
PHUPNU
RuiN BMOIfa" ROiiltan Pr"t
NaflSOn  EWIufusgonr   Admhftrugton
ARiMplun  sot Fnranca Profeciona
(In MM Poc)
1301      1992      193       It"4      1ogs       100       1997      1t"       1900      2000
Now PEo LOANS
O. WI w/ei anChIpa                1100      1320      2100      20         2025      2310      2310       2100      2100       2160
S.*one eWUme                       300       250       200        150       10        1S0        150       10         160       IS0
NSA UoOPWNGos
am0                                  0       23          4 0      106         0          0         0         0          0         0
oUOP                                 0         0          0       740       ooo       530        490          0         0         0
PROPOSED LOAN                        0       1S0      2an         643      1360       5so          0         0          0         0
CIDA                                 0       129        120        57         0          0
EXUAUNK                              0       161       20         1S6         0         0
aSuWp CUdr dW                        0        32        as          0         0          0
FORSMN ORANTS
Us"IO                              364       149         0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0
WORW CUNK (ESQ                     325       224          0         0         0          0         0          0         0         0
DANIOA                               0         0          0        ss        67        71          0          0
OVr. EMUMt CONTNUS.                200         0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0         0
PX FUND CONTnBUTIONS
COAS"bAOlSWUf the FUnd               2       160        171       129       237       279        344        308       474       526
- nnu nlu wd                         0         12        30        40        35         27        29         38        52         90
ToWM                                 2       175        200       16O       272        306       374        343       s26       022
ACoumiM"UdblOncs                     2       178        320      3U         440        446       525        566       802       1249
Paymeflfor FX CoAv                   0        so        101       220       299        295       280        252       234       217
ClIOlh I c                           2       119        219       100       141        151       245        336       627       1032



- 92
ANNEX 56.
J!ILIPPINES
RRAL ELEC-rIlFICATION REVITALIZATION PRQJfi
NAInONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION
EiokulonofR   Piua,ulkiUdmw Coin and REC Marains
1985 -1990: Constant Pvws 19
LU21ON
INS   -M                            The. -1        990
Rtil Pri          3.036    2.8=     2.622    2.415    2.179    2.252
Power Cot        2.440    2.116    1.924    1.736    1.533    1.612
REC Margin       0.596    0.706    0.698    0.679    0.646    0.640
VISA YA S
ttt  -1086    198       1086      109 .  -9t
Retail Price      2.638    2.596    2.436    2.415    2.305    2.350
Power Cost        1.883    1.724    1.690    1.624    1.547    1.595
AEC Margn         0.754    0.872    0.791    0.791    0.758    0.755
MAINtAQ
-1085 -    1066:   106798  1068K    1989     *990
Retail Price      1.380    1.409    1.528    1.466    1.396    1.359
Power Cost        0.917    0.854    0.957    0.956    0.914    0.853
REC Margin        0.463    0.555    0.571    0.511    0.482    0.506



PHIUPPINES                                                      iZ
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVITALZATION PROJECT                                     Page 1 d3
NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION
Tariffs oF 50 Probet RECs (Pesos)
COMMERCIAL             PUBUC BLDGS                   INDUST                    IlY1lQN SO.
MIN I9W       RATE      Mi BI9W        RATE    MIN BIU        RATE        DEMAND  ENEAGY           DEMAND    ENERGY         PER
REGION                 MIN KWH    ABOVE MIN  MIN KWH    ABOVE PA   MIN KWH   ABOVE MIN   CHARGEAK   CHAAGEAW UHARGEAC CHARGEIKW    KWH
I  ILOCOSNORTE              32.16 #10   12162       84.65 n2     3.3862    32.16 110     3.2162   17.60         &2662      17.60            3.1162    2.9362
ILOCOSSUR                32.66 110   12662       66.32 120    3.3162    32.66 110     3.2662   25.00         &2362      1S.00           11562    3.26
LA UNIONV                39.93 112   33272       67.34 120    3.3672    39.93 112     3.3272   17.60         3.3072     17.60           3.2472    3.3412
CENTRAL PANGASI    41.49 #12   3.4572            52.61 115    3.072    41.49 112      3.4572   16.50         .4072      16.50           3.32    3.4572
WESTERN PANGASI   46.03 112   3.8362            46.27 #12    16562    46.03 112       3.8362   22.50        3.462       20.00           17362    3
PANGASINAN NI            66.12 20   3.3062       99.78 #20    S.3262   19s37 /20      S.3062   15.00        3.3062      15.00           3.2962    32562
m  PAMPANGA IN              36.07 112   30062      151.31 150    s0262      36.07 112     3.0062   24.00        2.9362       -              30162    2.9162
ZAMBALES I               49.08 115   3.2721      49.38 #15    12921    49.06 #15      3.m2     1845          3.2321     12.8            12521    3.2721
Z4MBALES II              37.23 112   t1024       50.11 116    31322    46.54 /15      3.1024   16.45        10721        -              11021      31021
TARLAC II                26.85  8    3.3562     47.41 I14    3.3862    26.85 #8       3.3562   20.00        3.3162       -           -             3562
IV  BATANGAS I              29.66 #10   19662       45.24 15    S.0162    29.66 n10       2.9662   20.00        2.9562      111.OOHP        2.9062    2.6562
LAGUNA *                 732 r20   .6662         73.72 120    3.6862    54.99 115     3.6662   20.00        3.6262      15.OIHn         3.6062    3.4762
QUEZONI                  37.03 #12   10862       62.52 #20    3.1262    37.03 112     3.0862   21.05        3.0862      3360W12         3.062    27662
QUEZON II '              57.09 /1s   3.8062      96.40 #25    3.8562    57.09 #15     3.8062   20.00        3.7062       -           -             37062
AURORA                   38.36 110   3.8362      7.72 #20    3.8862    38.36 110      3.8362   20.00         3.8262      -           -             3.6362
STATUS AS OF MARCH 1991:
* FOR APPROVAL
BASED ON RATE CONSULTATION
^^* PROPOSED (FOR FURTHER EVALUATION)
+ RATE RETENTION
Notle Orignally, the 50 RECs presonted below were to be the beneficiaries of the proposed loan; at negotiations, NEA asked that tour more FlECs be added to the list of
beneliklarlee. Although the circumstances and Investment programs ol those RECs had been appraised, the additional data needed lor this annex was not readily available.



BWEEJNFA~~~~~~~~Pq 2 
RURAL ELECRIFICATINRt  r               TIN PROA                                P323
Tawiffs d 50 Prolect RECs (Pesos)
-~ 
, 1         alWERaAL             ~~~~~~PUBCI                     INDL                     _llmlSll
MN  WLt   RATrE    mow.1/   RATE   MN BPLI   RATE    DEMAND ENE&Y    DEMAWD   EIY                                         PBI
REVN                   M KWH  ABOVE MIN MN KWH  ABE M  MINKH  ABOVE MN CHRM    OHAICCHA RAECHARW  KMH
V  CAWRNYESARTE    37.16 n2    o962                76.65 r      3.1462    37.1S 112     10962   1&0           1(46        15.01 H. 046              1a6
CAAMRNES SUR I          31:46 Mo   31482        47.94 115    11962    31.46 110      11462   20.00         11062      20              3M2        10612
CoA R/ES SURU           31.67 110   11666       4610 115    120        31.67110      11066    20.00        1156       20.00           116        11M
CAM4RWESSURIN    54.24  15   16162              54.69 115    &6462    54.24 /Is      36162   20.00         3572       15.00           352    &52
CAMRNES SlIV P            .m69 ns    16462      56.74 1s    19162    57.69 I5        3.6842    17.60       &52        12Z15           &76        &7462
AU YI^                  51.39 115   14262       6.72   0      4362    51.39 ns       14262   16.00        &13         1200            &37        14262
ALAYM                   53179 ns    562         72.32 120    &6162    5179  s         562    1W00          15662      1200             32        14 
SORSOGONII              36.66 110   16862       55.44 115    3.6962    36.66 I10     16662   20.00         36162       -           -               2
VI AKLN                     36.53 n10   15686       36.3 n10    15668      36.53 110    &5686         2.00      56          -          - 
CAPiZ                   44.15 113   &3862      1036 130    14462    44.15 113        3.3962        14.00   13462     336.6210          3962     13662
ILOILO I'               56.27 n15   17512       57.02 115    18012    56.27 /15      17512         10.00   3.7712       -           -           17512
CENTRA  NEGROS          26.48 no   2.8196       27.66 I10    2.8198    2&48 I10      2.8196        12.00   2.09         -           -           2.601
NEGROSOCCC              30.86 110   106         31.14 110    &1138    30.86 I10      10658         15.00   10656        -           - 
VRESCO +                30.97 110   3.068       31.27 110    3.1268    30.97 110     3.0968       15.00   3.0768     12S.0WP          3.0568    3.0768
VI CEBUI                    51.24 n15   14162       51.84 /15    &4562    51.24 115      34162         16.00   13962        -          -            32262
NEGROS OR'              40.27 n12   &3562       40.87 112    14062    40.27 112      3.3562  221.05/71     3.3562       -          -            13562
NEGRS OR*I              30.26 /10   10262       46.14 I15    10762   151.31 /50      10262         1320   2S62        1335150         2.9762    2.9
CEBU   ''I              49.19 Mo   12862        49.79 I15    13262    49.19 115      1262          18.00   32662        -          -            3.02
VY   Sll^AI                 42.66 110   4.2662      87.32 120    4.3662    42.66 110     4.262         15.00   4.2662       -          -            4C2M
STATUS AS OF MARCH 1991:
* FOR APPROVAL
* BASED ON RATE CONSULTATION
*   PROPOSED (FOR FURTHER EVALUATION)
+ RATE RETENTION



PHIUES                                                       IM
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT                                      PaW 30
NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION DMINISTRATION
Tariffs of SO Prolect RECs (Peso
WSIDTI  L              Comm                    PUUC BLGS                        TAK    ST,5r
MN BUll       RATE       MCN  ILW       RATE     MIN 8WLU       RATE        D     eAM     ENERGY     DE1MAD    ENERGY           PER
REGION                  MINKWH  ABOVEMIN MINKWH  ABOVE MI MIN KWH  ABOVE MIN CHARGEM  HAREkW CHARA  ARwEA    KWH
IX  Z4AMB0ANGA CIY           22.62 115   1.5080       2382 115    1.5880    22.62 n15        1.5080   14.10        1.5860       -           -              1.S
ZAMBOANGA NORT    29.57 115   1.9714              40.43 /20    Z0214      29.57 115      1.971.   18.00         1.9714      -               1J714      1.9514
ZAMBOANGA SUR I    29.72 /15   1.9814             40.63 120    2.0314     29.72 115      1.9814   15.00         1.9914     6.0ow            1.9914     1.9214
X  AGUSANNORTE               25.03 n15   1.6686       25.48 115    1.6966     25.03 115     1.6686   19.60         1.6966     1t                1.63      1.62
AGUSANSUR                 31.73 115   2.1154      32.33 /s    2.1554      31.73 l15      21154   14.00          21054      14.00            2.0554     21154  o
BUKIODNONI               29.42 115   1.9614       29.72 115    1.9814     29.42 15       1.9614   15.00        1.9314       -           -              1.9614
MISAMIS OCCCI            2888 114   2.0629        5Z82 125    Z1129       30.94 115      2.0629   18.00        2.0629       -           -              2.0629
MISAMIS OR I             26.92 115   1.7746       54.74 130    1.8246     26.92 /15      1.7746   24.00         1.7646      -               1.7746     1.7646
MISAMIS OR I1            28.46 115   1.8971       57.81 130    1.9271     28.46 /15      1.8971   24.00         1.8471      -           -              1.8674
Xl SOCOTABATOII              17.80 n1    1.7799       18.10 /10    1.8S99     17.80 110      1.7799   10.00        1.8099       -           -              1.7299
SO COJABA TO I/           21.28 115   1.4186      43.16 130    1.4386    21.43 115       1.4286   10.00         1.3969      -           -              1.4189
DAVAONORTE+               25.16 115   1.6776      50.93 /30    1.6976     25.16 115      1.6776   19.00         1.6576     5.5MI            1.6576     1.6776
VA VA OSUR                16.26 110   1.6256      33.31 /20    1.6656     16.26 110      1.6256   15.00         1.6156     &0oP             1.6256     1.62W
DAVAOOR                  33.02 115   2.2014       33.32 115    2.2214      33.17 115     2.2114   15.00         2.1514      -           -              2.2014
xm  NO COTABATO               30.02 ns   20014        40.43 120    10214      30.02 /15      2.0014   17.00         1.9614     15.00            1.9314     1.9514
MAGUINDANAO              48.1  120   2.4057       4.51 120    2.4257      48.11 120      24057   19.60          2.3957     19.0             2.3657     2.4257
STATUS AS OF MARCH 1991:
^ FOR APPROVAL
BASED ON RATE CONSULTATION
PROPOSED (FOR FURTHER EVALUATION)
+ RATE RETENTION



-96-                              A6.l
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ELECIRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECr
NATIONAL ELECIUIFICATION ADMINISTRATION
Methodology for Evaluating Investments
_kfround on the Dlanninr Cycle
1.    Substantial progress has been made during the past few years in the
area of investment planning. REC investments used to be determined on an ad-hoc
basis, mainly as a function of short-term availability of funds. They are now
established in the framework of five year plans, which are prepared and
evaluated according to precise procedures and criteria. The process is based on
a participative approach, and NEA's objective is to give RECs an increasing role
in the preparation and of medium-term investment plans. These procedures ani
criteria are enunciated in NEA's Investment Guidelines. This document emphasizes
the role of economic criteria (EIRR) in the evaluation of investment programs.
2.    The annual planning cycle begins each April, when NEA's Corporate
Planning Office (CORPLAN) sends gudelines to the RECs for the preparation of the
five-year investment programs ; these guidelines include the main parameters
needed for project design and evaluation, as well as methodological
recommendations on questiona such as market analysis and load forecasting. Once
the plans are prepared they are discussed with NEA's Regional Electrification
Managers, NEA's engineering department, and CORPLAN, during the Investment
Planning Workshops held during the summer. The plans are then analysed further
at NEA's headquarters; this year, for the first tire, the evaluation of REC
investment programs will be based on the new computer Model for the Evaluation
of Electrification Programs (MEEP), discussed below. The process will culminate
with the preparation of Project Evaluation Reports (PERs) which summarize the
technical, economic, and financial aspects of the REC's investment program, as
well as the REC's PIPs (Annex 4.2). These PERs, which will be updated regularly,
will be submitted to NEA's Board, as part of the lending process.
General structure of the KEEP
3.   The general methodology used in the economic part of the model has been
discussed in Chap.6.  In fact, the economic evaluation of RECs' investment
programs is part of a larger model, which, first, establishes investment flows
distinguishing foreign and local costs, based on the physical quantities
submitted by the RECs, and on NEA's standard costs. The relevant outputs of the
project costing and evaluation model are then fed into a financial projections
model. Project costing by the RECs themselves (depending on the availabllity of
computers) is expected to be one of the first steps of NEA's plan to decentralize
the planning process.



- 97 -
6.1
Page 2 of 2
Deuand Forgegg
4.    Today, deuand forecasts are generated in the framework of the KEEP itself,
based on assumptions on growth trends of consumption per customer for four
sectors (residential, commercial, industrial, others), and forecasts of new
ccnnections given by the RECs. For neu industrial connections however, annual
kWh consumption and coincident peak demano -an be input directly. For other new
connections, consumption per connection is assumed to be 85 of that of the
existing customrs. The modal also establishes peak demand projections based on
load factor forecasts, taking into account the fact that technical loss reduction
has a higher impact on peak demand than on energy demand. Peak demand and energy
forecasts are used to calculate the econoaic and financial costs of builk supply.
Toss Reduction PXofiles
5.    In the absence of estimates of the breakdown between technical and non-
technical losses for each REC, current calculations are based on standard
breakdowns and standard loss reduction profiles were adopted, as a function of
the total loss ratio, with a ceiling of 18X for technical losses. These loss
reduction profiles are acceptable (Annex 3.3).
Cost Benefit AnalXsLi
6.    The methodology used for cost benefit analysis is classical.  It is based
on the use of incremental consumption , valued on the basis of consumer surplus,
as a proxy for economic benefits. Calculation of the consumer surplus is based
on minimum willingness to pay as revealed by the substitution of electricity for
kerosene in basic ligthing uses, and by the current price paid for the current
level of monthly consumption (the two latter data are REC specific), assuming a
linear demand curve between these two points.   For industrial consumption
benefits are based on the redustion in economic cost, as compared to diesel based
self-generation. The main parameters used in the econonomic evaluation are given
in Annexes 5.7, 6.2, and 6.3.   Although the benefit cost methodology is
classical, the separation of reinforcement/rehabilitation, add-ons, and extension
projects in the economic evaluation is an original characteristic of NEA's modal,
as contrasted with the aggregate approaches often used in the economic evaluation
of distribution projects. The EIRR for the entire program is calculated by
consolidating all the net benefit flows of projects passing the 151 EIRR test.



- 98 -
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ELECIRIFICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECI
NATIONAL ELECIRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION
Long Run Marginal Cost of Bulk Supply
1.    The following table gives the JIRCs of bulk supply at 69 lcV for the
various  grids  of  the  Philippines.    The  project  evaluation  model
distinguishes the capaecity and energy components of the ZINC; the
equivalent total cost per klh, calculated for a load factor of 40S is
given only as an illustration.
Capacity            Energy         Total
glu                 ~~PAkW               P/kWh           ,P/h
Luzon                        395                1.17            2.52
Cebu-Negros-Panay            610                1.02            3.11
Leyte-Samar                  772                0.67            3.31
Nindsnao                     363                0.75            1.99
Othor Islands               1072                1.54            5.22
2.   These costs have been calculated on the basis of the followlng econouic
prices:
Discount Rate                      : 15l
Shadow Exchange Rate               : 1.2
Shadow prlce of labor (unqual.)  : 0.6
Fuel Oil                           : US$ 15.2/bbl
Gas Oil                            . US$ 23/bbl
Geothermal Steam                   : US$ 0.0143/kWh
Exchange Rate                      : USS 1 - Pesos 28



RURAL ELECTRIFICATIO  REVITALIZATION         T
NATIONAL ELECTRIRCATION ADTIMON
Rate d Return on Puoosd REC Pf*so
Sm vYew         19                Shadow Pdcs
ECO Dbcour* R    15%           Foreign Excng           1.20        Foreg RPm          2OOPI1$
FIN Dboourt Rat  12%           LOC U.idld Labor        0.60         Duty                    0%
Badc LhUng Reidea              Okwh mo
Badi LgI    Commec         21 kwhlmo
Houwbto Cost                P2000lmo
Prie of Kerosen                  PU O0
Econonic Cost Sell Generaton    PS.w
SUMMARY
Total No. of ProJect
RshatdAdd                11
Expanon                  31
Rehb                     U
Add-cf                   S9
Totl No. of RECs              50
Consolidated EIRR           0.36
Od,gln*  only he 60 RECa presd below were to be t benef_cles of th proposd kw at nadans,
NEA ased tou  more RECe be added to th Mg ol benefciares. Adthough the    _m   p 1  and hsesbneat
prorp  of tow  four RECa were apprasd, th addonal dat neded or Oth anex wa not realy a_lbs.



- 100 -
ANE  6.3
Page 2 of 5
PLIPPNEs
RURAL EECTRICATION REVffALIZAIION PROJECT
Rates of Retur  o  Proposed REC Projects
DtW
Prjooct                  MC          Fe iee               FinwfeaL           Total     Total
T tst wv M **w-~~~~~-199245.
Rthb        InEC          AOI    30,025    26.91      161,33      6S.61      37,679    3,878
Add-on      INC           AOl    15.735    ".11        15,45      61.41       3,162      316
Expa1i0n   'NC            AOl    15,714    33.51       37,482    193.31      1S,649    26"2
Ihab        Inca          A02     30.025    26.91     161,33      65."       36273    3,428
Add-On      ICO          A02     16.73     ".11       15,685    61.4X        4,536      454
Expwion    IE0 A0 02               7,474    21.5X      15,65     61.41      20,120    3,5n
Rehab       LUELCO        AOS     30,122    32.61     106,49?    67.8J       24,495    2,49
tdM-an      LUELCO        A05      6,310    37.21       5,U64     54.51       2,284      228
Expansion    LUELCO       AOS      4.122    26.41       5,864     54.51       5,637      963
Rehab       PNiELCO I    A07      20,353    54.5X      54,766    131.5X      10,454    1,181
Add.-On     PANELCO I    A07      25,345    34.01      33,839     6.31       10,642    1,084
Rehab       CENPELCO      A0S     32,79     21.1X     143,035     34.11      48,678    7,784
Add-On      CENPELCO      AO    54,043   S5.9X        45,380     84.31       9,521      952
Rehab       PAIIELCO III   A09    63,948    56.6      154,697    152.31      31,092    3,004
Add-On      PANELCO III   A09      8,319    65.91       7,545    112."         890        89
Expwaion   PANELCO III   A09      12.826    33.41       7,545    112.61      12,568    2,084
Rehab       TARELCO 11   C02    35,48       52.31     110,677    117.61      14,209    1,860
Add-On      TAItELCO II   C02      6,879    43.6        7,003     72.1X       1,508      151
Rehab       PELCO III     CIO    18,909    19.41      159,7Sl    45.01       96,476   10,315
Add-On      PELCO III     CIO    41,744    90.31       28,549    118.9x       3,895      389
Expw;son    PELCO III     C10      6,565    30.91      28,549    118.91       5.473      844
Rehab       ZAECO I       C12    17,46      30.1X      58,019     59.11      18,164    1,370
Add-On      ZANECO 1      C12        S66    28.91         698    46.81          251       25
Expwn0in    ZANECO I      C12      4,690    6.SX          696     46."          677      119
Rehab       ZANECO It    C13    71,746   134.21       175,284    100.01      22,732    1,839
Add-On      ZANECO II     C13    50,659    60.         37,U85     84.61       8,004      8O
Rohb        AUELCO        001         74    15.31       6,106     32.41       4,826     *4
Add-On      AUELCO        001         89    17.01         432    32.21          320       32
Rehab       fLECO         002     27,043    30.11      84,77      51.41      21,513    2,467
Add-on      FLECO         002    94,022   1co.ox       82,S76    100.01       4,360      436
Expanson    FLEWO         002      6,147    35.71      82,576    100.01       5,653      987
Rehab       SATELEC 1    003      13.318   23.21       ","461     60.71      27,896    2,478
Add-on      SATELEC 1     003     39,973    90.ox      19,133     86.0X       2,018      282
Expanion    MTELEC 1    003        6,335    18.91      19,133    66.8        28,m      4,78
Rahab       GJEULCO I    0OS      18,58     51.21      60,677    100.0X       8,068      807
Adc-On      QUEnELCO w    005         U     19.01         141    26.31          151       15
Expanion   0UZELCO I    0OS    93,372    76.CX            141    26.31       18.111    3,138
Rehb        QUEZELCO II   006      1,554    19.51      13,013     41.31       3,460      346
Add-On      OLE2ELCO II  006       3,144    29.0X       4,823     57.7X       1,316      132



- 101 -
ANNEX 6.3
Page 3 of 5
PHLPPINES
RURAL ELECTRIlFICAIION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
Rates of Return on Proposed REC ProjL-ts
project                  RIC         Econmic               FiAmncilt         Total     Totat
T112L-    W,i_         a         PV       -ML         WV         i    M orton -tW295.
"bob        CANOSECO      101     69,160    i.jX      151,542    109.9X      15,211    2,325
Add-On      CINONCO       101     28,597    65.8       16,"0      75.0X       3,055      306
mpmwnion   CAJOCO         101     12,431    26.82      16,840    75.0X       12,168    2,28
mehab       CASUhC 1   t02        21,626    36.1X      67.486     6.72        6,754      678
Add-On      CUECO  1   102    35,097   104.1X          17,915    103.8%       3,003      300
Reh&b       CAIURECO 11  103    93,859    73.7r       220,762    153.42      24,517    3,453
Add-On      CASURECO 11  E03      61,764   153.4X      43,762    100.02       2,560      256
Exp.slon   CASURECO 11   503      12,0U8   34.62       43,762    100.02       9,912    1,818
Rieab       CASURECO III  E04      6,295    19.8X      38,402     35.52      13,932    1,702
Add-On      CASURECO III  E04      5,488    37.52       5,751     61.42       1,852      185
Rehdb       CASURECO IV  E05       2,930    19.2X      24,782     40.92      12,757    1,429
Add-On      CASURECO IV  E05       2,767    43.0X       3,216     82.82         684       68
Rehab       ALECO I       E06     17,688    30.8X      62,527     61.32      18,407    2,350
Add-On      ALtCO I       E06      1,882    38.72       1,631    S5.62           54        5
Expaslon    ALECO 1       106     23,920    35.12       1,631    5S.62       14,598    2,623
Rehab       ALECO III    EOS       7,S86    21.6       33,412     3S.6X      10,236    1,447
J I On      ALECO III    E08       1,100    23.5X       1,324     33.02         84        85
Rehab       SOECO II    110        8,910    23.9X      41,147     45.1X       8,028      891
Add-On      SRECO II    E10       22,735    89.9X      15,657    122.8%       1,842      184
ExpansIon    SCRECO II    E10      1,853    18.02      15,657    122.8X      12,845    2,298
Rehab       AXELCO        fO1      2,717    17.72      33,654    36.92       11,447    1,813
Add-On      AKELCO        fO1      6,011    34.92       8,058     70.62       1,576      158
Rhb/Add   CAPELCO         f03     27,333    19.4      120,137    35.52       62,069    6,207
Expmnson    CAPELCO       f03      3,631    21.22      66,902     55.62       4,635      767
Reiab       ILECO 11      f05     18,049    32.32      73,672     71.0X      12,799    1,646
Add-On      ILECO 11      f05     14,338    35.3X      22,468     75.2X       4,099      410
Expalion    ILECO II      *05     5,76     23.82      22,46      78.2X       6,657    1.129
Itdab       WSCO          f0S     51,345   44.6       176,500    111.4X      22,473    3,065
Add-On      Vu5E0         f04      8,o40    29.32       6,220     33.52       4,277      428
rxpwnstrq   VUS Fo 0S              9,097    19.9X       6,220    33.52       23,809    3,887
Rdhab      ECCO           f09    131,104    54.82     462,496    144.7       51,992    7,527
Add-On      CINECO        FP09    242,188   140.42    127,521    144.82      1S,342    1,534
Exjpion    ClECO          F09     25,024    60.02     127,521    14.82        9,762    1,554
Add   lmOCIcO             FlO     15,210    22.32     120,679     90.9X      35,531    3.233
ExpefSaln   M1CEtO        f10     15,519    26.12      21,475     46.22      14,092    2,385
Rehab        MitECO  tI    002    32,936    40.12     128,367     86.3X      13,807    1,89
Add-On      IEWCO II    C02        2,64S    26.72       2,695     40.92       1,192       119
Expuimon   NO151CO II    602    23,193    24.42         2,695     40.92      38,711    6,776
3.mb        ceCo I        60      10,037    30.9X      49,280     81.52       6,917      692
Add-On      ChICO I       64      73,274   110.2%      47,278    141.92       5,93       59



- 102 -
ANX         6. 3
lage 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ELECIICATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
Rates of Return on Popoed REC Project
Details
Project                   NC           *eaic                Finacial            Total      Total
ly       me: Ia_ g       2        KU-       -LU        - V        -IRR   Forsio          12
19.. * 292-9 5.
_A1ab       CICO III    606        11,28     33.92       52,357    103.2%        9,575       nr
Addn         C    PI OIu 11  0     11,535    34.32       13,54      Go.1X        3,757       376
Expwaion      Coo III    606        4,937    30.42       13,56      60.12        2,117       361
mahab        SWILO I  I  NO        5,301    20.22       25.952     32.2%        9,49    1,921
Add-On       SANELCO II 110        13,668    53.6"       18,969    137.12        3,443       344
Re WAdd    ZAICO           101    183,415   113.22       87,414     64.5X       29,755    3,416
11,-we on    ZANC0        101    "16S1    30.1X         65,583    169.82        9,165     1,616
RIhb         ZANUIECO I   102      21.435    35.82       63,664     63.86       1S,462    1,100
Add-On       ZANIIMECO I   102     42.806   126.2X       16.657     95.7X        2,972       297
Expanion    UANIUNCO 1   102        1,904    21.5X       16.657      95.7X       5.717    1,113
Rthb/Add    ZANSURECO  1  103      19,910    32.62       31,601      38.2      20,014    2,115
Expnsion    ZANIURECO 11  103      42,29     49.9X        6,344      68.2X       9,204    1,783
Rehab        ZANCELCO      104     96,427    93.52      229,621    249.0%       14,962    2,218
Add-On       ZANCELCO      104      1.531    56.82          201      23.42         251        25
Expnision    ZANCELCO      104     54,862    32.9S          201      23.42      38,964    5,929
RohablAdd    NOELCI I      JOI      1,466    17.02       13,226      26.9X       5,2S9       652
Expnsfon    NOELCI I       JO1        389    15.52        1,544     40.86       13,089    2,075
Rahab       NOBESCO I      J03     40,444    51.92      101,599     97.22       18,112    1,478
Add-On      "0R1CW  I      J03      8,859    37.4X        1,S90      20.5       2,509       251
Expanion l   NRESC0 1      J03        573    16.42        1,590      20.52           0         0
Rdeab *D1ESW  1I    J04            17,522    62.32       74,151    100.02       10,682    1,182
Add-On       NORESCO 11    J04      3,319    27.12          632      17.12       1,975       197
Expanion    NORESCO 11    J04      21,756    28.72          632      17.1X      25,432    4,727
Rehab/Add    FINCO         Jos     43,687    44.02       78,420      69.02       7,886       769
Expamion   FPIECO          Jos      4,,,%9    16.42       18,079     73n.       25,646    4,560
Rahb         AIEo          JO?      8,112    30.32       43,46    104.12         7,534       867
Add-On       A0CO          JOY    194,454   100.02       4,794    119.22         7,743       774
Expn ion    ANE0           JOY     47,350    4.32        4,794    119.22        21,334    3,608
R.had/Add    AELCO         JOB      9,931    21.32        19,S15     25.72      23,74      3,148
It"          oor03o        K03      2,916    19.02        12,397     24.6x       4,803       480
AddOn   0 0 O              K03     81,471   119.52       33,168      97.02       5,378       536
.xpansion    D0W           103     13,300    22.22       33,168      97.02      26,348    5,006
Iteab        OAEOO         104      2,747    17.82       83,879      87.22      19,986     1,999
Add-On    0    NCO         K04     93,844   119.12        24,868     65.32       7,067       7r0
Expnsion    DAtCO          104     19,950    25.8x        24, M8     65.32      24,075     4,329
lahab/Add    DAUMCO        KOS    193,926   107.6         68,431     73.22      18,485     1,962
R.h/Add    SOCMCO I    K07    124,347   125.6             81,025     96.12      17,827    2.370
R.habAdd    SOCOTECO II   K07    142,304    38.62         92,181     30.02     116,M       9,444
Exnfon    8OO071O 11  107  r4,80             27.72       32,413     37.02      31,640    5,917



- 103 -
AMNEX 6 . 3
Pago 5 of 5
PHILPPINS
RURAL EJCZON REVITALZATION PROJECT
Ratu of Retum on Poposed REC Prjctb
DetU
Project                   NC          semol.e                Ivfat             Totel      Total
,__ia_  SULAM              m           - S                  L   JL    FUL 
R~Add             LCO     LW03    4,974    36.51       6.040      56.71       2,26    2.,30
gxpwosmn    WALCO          LOS      7,458    17.91       23.619    ".Ox        48,109    7,527
ldwb        COTELCO        L04        119    15.41       43,147    40.71       2243Z     2.472
Add-On      COTELCO        L04     55,46   103.3         27V,4    102.8         5.375      538
xpenwlon    COTILCO        L04    64.142    47.21       27,4    102.X         26,949    4,62



- 104 -                          AM.  7. 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ELECTRIFCATION REVITALIZATION PROJECT
NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINSTRATION
U.t of D_cUm   in Projet Fil
A.1       Ph2iOD;nm - Rl Eletraion Sector StUdV An Integrated Proiram to
Revitalizethe Saor Report No. 8016-PHI Novembr 9, 1989
A.2       Staff Appral Report Philipin  - Energy Sector Projet; Report No. 8049-
Pit November 22, 1989
At.3      Phiippine Power Sector - Cost Structure and TraMNfer Pricing Stud: Prepared
by RCG/Hagler Badily, Inc.; April 12,1990
B.1       NEA's F_ancing Strategy
B.2       NEAs Loan Policy Manual
B.3       NEA's Invtment Guideline
BA        NEA' Rate Manual
B.5       NEA - Fee Schedule for Support Services
C.1       Draft Amendment to the NEA Charter
C.2       Drft Legislation to Authorize Write-off of Delin n   at Receivables
C.3       Draft Legislation to Increase NEAs Authorzed Capital
D.1       Computer File Containing NEA!s Fnacial Projections 1991-2000
D2        Computer File Contaning a Financial Model for Projecting Fmancial
Peforn         of the RECg
D3        Computer Model Used by NEA for Investment Prioritization
F.I       NEAs 1991-95 Investment Program
F.2       REC by REC Analysis of Invetments included in the Project
F.3       NEAs Technical Dcription of the Various Project Components



MAP SECTION



IBRD 23207
i IClb                                           120'                                             Cr4                                             Inn-
PHILIPPINES
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS                                                              NATI O NAL ELECTRIFICATION
I ILOCOS               VI WESTERN VISAYAS                                                              ADMINISTRATION
1 lass None              38 Akien                                                                RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
2 11on S.,                39 Ccpiz                                                              REVITALIZATION PROJECT
3 Lo Un,,n               40 AnhqRTue
4 Pcn-gsin-n             41  dlel
CORDILLERA ADMINISTRATVE   42 Nogro  Cidenlel
REGION CAR)                43 G.i-nr                                                                             Rural Electric Cooperartive
5 Ab o           VIl  CENTRAL VISAYAS                                                                             Boundories
6 K.I,nge-Apey.e         44 Cebu
7 Mentie, P-i-ne         45 NegesOriental                                                                      Project Areas
8 Eugse                  46  behl P]
9 benguet                 47 Squijer
1  CAGAYAN VALEY    Vill EASTERN VEAYAS
1 0 Eatena                 48 Nente- S-mr~~                                                                                    aia
11  Cagayen                49 Westn Ser                                                                                      C ant o pitol
12  aboeb                  50 REtes tamer S                              R        _.
13 Nu.-Vi-ey               51 L"I n                                                                             Province Boundaries
14 Quidrs                  52 SentIren Lete                    I  ,o                                                       B
111  CENTRAL LUZON              53 Rlien                                                                             Region Boundaries
15 Nen Edia         IX  WESTERN MINDANAO
16 Tlrrs                   54 Z-rbeQan  del Nerle                   r12
17 Zeebn1ares              55 Zcmbeng, del Sur   aw                                                            International Boundoris
18 Pp e-gon                56 Rbsli-n                               J  13   14
19 bwcn                    57 Sole
20 bulcpcn                 58 Tcowlai           eren<                                V                                                                   *
NATIONAL CAPITAL     X   NORTERNEAMINDANAO ssao
REGION (NCR)               59 Srig  dl Net                                                                           1 03
IVSOUTHERN TAGALOG            60 C-rrauinr,seo
'21 Auror                  61 Ag.eends1 Not.                                                              iesa          n        no        n        n
22 Gesen                   62 Ms-misOrieTtd            III7
23 Rie-3tAtmsOniertl                                       \            1
24 C-a.                    64 Rukiohnen d-f1
25 Lcoune                  65 AgQ-on ddl Sur                    }45N     22   c
26 BfNeges          XI  SOUTHIERN MINDANAO                     N
27 Marinduque              66 SeiRgedel Suroresce16
28 MindreOrienrtl          67 DenoOrin-tl                              2
29 Mendere O-eiderrl       68Gns e  erei 
30 Rorbon                  69 Genesdel- d.1 Sc                                                           V
31 lkwer                   70 Soteh Ctebt 3a.
V   BICOL               XIlI  CENTRAL MINDANAOG
32 C-terines Nerle         71 L-se del Ncte
33 Cornines Sur            72 Lcro de S..
34 Centandueras            73 North Cetbrte
35   bsy                   74 Maguird-nI                               9
36 Sersegen                75 Sulto Kudcrot
37 Strbete
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vl
75~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
/31''(                                                       X] 5                       ,         _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~odreenlen -'l nfnleeteodRnGs. T-daneoher'ded
, J 2s s a g *t r 1 . | ' i~~~~~~~~~~bndes he e hi nnS ntm  e hep2 fTI  ordnckGe.er ssee'
PtilLIPPltqE5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~rEPcE /resi) 
\ , 57 __ / A,,,_,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
\~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                          695
t^AI\97_        =11'~PNE
. . _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DECEMBER 1991



