Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
eR D(77-7 13E7
Report No. 6460-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 12, 1988
Agriculture Operations
Country Department I
Africa Region
'Uis document has a resticted distribution and may be used by ediplents only in the perfonnance of
their offcial dutes. Its contents may not otheise be dbslosed without Wodd Bank authorzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$l             =       CFAF 295 (October 1987)
FF 1                     CFAF 50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO     -    Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BCB       -    Banque Commerciale du Benin
BOAD      -    Banque Ouest-Africaine de Developpement
CAA       -    Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CAETS     -    Cooperative Agricole Experimentale de Type Socialiste
CARDER    -    Centre d'Action R6gionale pour le Developpement Rural
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEAO      -    Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CFDT      -    Compagnie Fran,aise pour le Developpement des Textiles
CLCAM     -    Caisse Locale de Credit Agrico.e Mutuel
CNCA      -    CaisRe Nationale de Credit Agricole
COBEMAG   -    Cooperative Beninoise de Materiel Agricole
CRCAM     -    Caisse Regionale de Credit Agricole Mutuel
DEP       -    Direction des Etudes et de la Planification
FAO       -    Food and Agriculture Organization (UN)
GRVC      -    Groupement Revolutionnaire a Vocation Cooperative
GV        -    Groupement Villageois
IFAD      -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
MDRAC     -    Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Action Cooperative
ONC       -    Office National des Cerdales
OPEC      -    Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
RCF       -    Recherche Coton Fibre
SAFGRAD   -    Semi-Arid Food Grain Research and Development
SONAPRA   -    Societe Nationale pour la Production Agricole
SRDR      -    Service des Routes et des Dessertes Rurales
URP       -    Unites de Recherche et de Production
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFCIL USE ONLY
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPKMENT PROJECT
TABLE O CONTENTS
Paa
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS ................M............. ............*       iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SU      oo ooo o.........................................  v
BASIC DATA SHL.T FOR THE RURAL SECTOR .... o ......................... .,...   ix
I.   BACKGROUND ....................................................o..   1
II.  THE RURAL SECTOR ...........................     .................   1
A.   Sector Characteristics  I............  ...................  .....    1
B.   Sector Institutions . ......... .........        ..........    2
C.   Government's Agricultural Objectives & Strategy ............    S
D.   Experience with Past Lending ...................................    7
E.   The First Borgou Rural Development Project ............. o ...   7
F.   Recent Developments in the Cotton Sub-Sector..........   ...    9
G.   Bank Sector Lending Strategy      ...................          11
III  THE PROJECT                                                   o     12
A. The Project Area               . . .                             12
B.   Project Obje^tives and Summary Description ..............    13
C.  Detailed ProJetct Features ........                    .        13
lo Rural Development Activities ...                            is1
2.  Institutional Development ...    ...        .     .        1
3.  Cotton Sub-Sector Rebabilitation Program ..............   22
D.   Project Cost and Financing ..   ..................             26
1o Cost Estimates  .o. ooo.o.o...o..oo..    . ...oo..o...0  26
2.  Financing Plan and Arrangements ......... ...........    29
3. Financing Procedures and Special Project Account....o o 30
4.  Procurement ...... ............. .........    31
5. Allocation and Disbursements of IDA Credit .........oo  33
6.  Financial Control, Audit and Reporting Requirements ...   34
This report is based on the findings of an IDAICCCE appraisal mission in
May 1986. The mission consisted of J. Baah-Dwomoh, G. Wightwick, A. fah,
E. Sinodinos (IDA staff - Western Africa Projects Department), and
B. Hirschi (consultant) for IDA. The CCCI team consisted of J.C. DevMse,
J.-P. Neumann, and Aerts. The report was checked by Mrs. M.-L. Kpatchibo
and the secretarial work done by Mrs. C. Asare.
This document hba a _eutd dstubuon nd my be usod by eients on in tb. pMfonnam
of their olfcal duies Its contnts may not otwi be diclosd whout Word Dn a _utoutln



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)                                         pafRe
E.   Project Implementation ...................................   34
1.  Extension and Training .............................   35
2.  Research ...............   36
3.  Input Supply and Seasonal Credit        ....................   36
4.  Medium-Term Credit .... ...... . . .. . . . . . . ..  ............   37
F.  Production, Markets, Ptices and Farm Incomes .............   37
1.  ;technical Themes ...... ..... .  * .... ..  ................ .   37
2.  Environmental Impact .....................               39
3.  Production .........     .................................    39
4.  Demand, Markets and Prices 9999999999999 ...... ...... .   40
5.  Impact on Farm Incomes ..............................   41
G.   Project ;ustification and Risks ..........................   42
1.  Benefits ..............................................   42
2.  Economic Analysis  ....  ..........   ...................    43
3.  Economic Ra'ce of Return and Sensitivity Analysis ....   44
4.  Project Risks ...........  99999999999999999999 *9.....9    45
IV.  AGREMFNIS AND RECOMMENDATION 99999.....................   ......  46
ANNES
2-1  Statement of Policy for a Rehabilitation Program in the
Cotton Sub-Sector
2-2  Summary of Measures Already Taken and Measures To Be Taken
2-3 Key Indicators of the First Borgou Project
2-4 Cash Flow of Cotton Sub-Sector
3-1  Stabilization Fund
3-2 Financial Analysis
3-3  Project Cost Summary by Time
3-4  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3-5 Organizal.ional Chart of CARDENS
3-6 Summary of Technical Recommendations
3-7 Area, Yield and Production Assumptions and Estimates
3-8 Economic Analysis
3-9 Sensitivity Analysis
MAPS: 19394R1 Benin Borgou Rural Development Project Supplemental Credit
20637   Benin Borgou Rural Development Project - Principal Centers
and Location of Development



- iii -
PEOPLE B S PUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
A. PROJECT WORKING PAPERS (Available from AFIM)
1.   Technical
1.1 Perme Semenciere
1.2 Vulgarisation et Formation
1.3 Le Programme Culturel
1.4 Description Technique du Projet
1.5 Recherche Agronomique
2.   Proiect Cost Tables
2.1 Summary Project Costs by Time
2.2 Summary Project Costs by Component
2.3 Detailed Project Costs
1.1 Ddveloppehent Agricole
1.2 Ferme Semenci6re
2.1 Recherche Vivrire
2.2 Recherche Coton Fibre
3.1  Developpement Cooperatif
3.2 Protection de l'Environnement
4.  Am6nagements, Puits et Pistes
5.1 Developpement Institutionnel - CARDER Borgou
5.2 Personnel CARDER Borgou
5.3 Vehicules CARDER Borgou
6.   Developpement Institutionnel - SONAPRA
7.   Developpement Institutionnel - Services Communs
3. Farm Models
3.1 Modbles d'Exploitation - Zone Extreme Nord
1.   Culture Manuelle sans coton
2.   Culture Manuelle avec coton
3.   Culture Atteles avec coton
4.   Culture Attelde sans coton
3.2 Modales d'Exploitation - Zone Nord
1.   Culture Attelee avec coton
2.   Culture Manuelle avec coton
3.   Culture Nanuelle sans coton
3.3 Mod4les d'Exploitation - Zone Sud
1.   Culture Attelde avec coton
2.   Culture Nanuelle avec coton
3.  Culture Nanuelle sans coton
3.4 Resume des Activit6s du Projet



_ iv -
4.   Farn Budget Analysis
4.1 Zone ExtrOme Nord
1.  Culture Manuelle avec coton
4.2 Zone Nord
1.   Culture Attel4e avec coton
2.   Culturo Manuelle avec coton
3.   Culture Nanuelle sans coton
4.3 Zone Sud
1.   Culture Attel6e avec coton
2.   Culture Manuelle avec coton
3.   Culture Manuelle sans coton
4.4 Farm Budget per Hectare - Cotton
4.5 Farm Budget per Hectare - Groandauts
4.6  Farm Budget per hectare - Maize
5.  Labor Use by Crop ner Hectare
6.   Economic Analvsis
6.1 Economic Farmgate Prices for Cotton, Groundnuts,
Maize and Sorghum
6.2  Economic Farmgate Prices for Fertilizer
6.3 DRC & IEC Calculations for Cotton 1984-1989
6.4 Base Case Scenario ERR Calculation
6.5 Alternative Case Scenario ERR Calculation
7. Terms of Reference - Expatriate Staff
B.  ADDITIONAL SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
1.   Post Appraisal Mission Reports - January 7, 1987 and May 22, 1987
2.   Preparation Report - FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
3.   Rapport de Pre-evaluation du Projet Borgou 2 - CCCE
4.   Etude de la Filibre Coton au Benin - CCCE
5.   Supervision Reports - Cr. 1127-BEN
6.   Various Documents on SONAPRA
7.   Production, Yield and Area Estimates for Major Crops (1970171 -
1985186)
8.   Terms of Reference for Benin Agricultural Sector Study
I



- v -
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BOR6OU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers           People's Republic of Benin
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Rural Development and Couperative Action,
SONAPRA, CARDER Borgou, and Stabilization Fund
Credit Amounts      SDR 15.9 million (US$21 million equivalent)
Termst              Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlendint Termss    Up to CFAP 600 million to Stabilization Fund to be
repaid over 15 years, including a five-year grace
period at 4Z annual rate of interest
Cofinancierss       Banque Ouest-Africaine de D4viloppement (BOAD)
Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (CCCE)
International Fund for Agricultural Development (TFAD)
Proiect             The proposed project is in part a conventional
DescriDtion:        three-year area-based rural development project that
follows on the first Borgou Rural Development
Project and in part a sector adjustment program to
undertake structural reforms in the cotton sub-sector.
It aims at:
(a) consolidating the substantial gains of the first
Borgou Project with specific emphasis on
productivity improvements at the farm level and
executing agency level;
(b) preparing a medium-term restructuring and
development program for the rural sector; and
(c) reorganizing the cotton sub-sector to improve its
financial viability through cost reduction and
better financial management of associated agencies.
The rural develonment component includes (a)
provision of incremental inputs, improved extension and
animal traction for farmers in the Borgou Province;
(b) applied foodcrop and cotton research; (c)
consolidation of farmer groups; (d) environmental
protection and infrastructure development programs;
(e) pilot rehabilitation of 100 ha of bottomlands and
ccastruction/rehabilitation of 65 wells; (f) rehabili-
tation and maintenance of about 300 km of feeder roads.



- vi -
The institutional comaonent aims at (a) strengthening
the financial management and procedures of the CARDER
Borgou and SOAPRA; (b) preparing a medium-term
development program; (c) establishing a cotton Stabili-
zation Fund and a central audit, accounting and
financial training unit for the cotton sub-sector as a
whole; and td) providing studies and consultant
services to help prepare a medium-term restructuring
and development program for the rural sector.
The aim of the cotton sub-sector rehabilitation arosram
is to make it competitive and reestablish its
comparative advantage. The main items to be financed
are the residual deficit in cotton revenue for 1986-87,
resulting from the fall in cotton prices in 1985 and
1986, and a financial restructuring and increase in
working capital of agencies involved in the sub-sector.
Estimated Proiect Costs
Local    Foreign    Total      X of Base Costs
US$ million ------
Agricultural Development        3.8       5.5        9.3             15.3
Research                        1.7       1.7        3.4              5.6
Cooperative Development         0.7       0.3        1.0              1.7
Environmental Protection        0.1       0.3        0.4              0.7
Bottomland and Well Program    0.3        0.7        1.0              1.7
Rural Roads                     1.1       2.9        4.0              6.7
Institutional Development       3.2       7.8       11.0             18.2
Studies and Audits              0.3      2.2         2.5              4.1
Cotton Program Support          6.3       1.1        7.4             12.4
Fiaancial Restructuring        20.3       0.0       20.3             33.7
Base Costs                   37.8     22.5        60.3            100.0
Physical Contingencies          1.4      1.7         3.1              5.1
Price Contingencies             1.6      2.3         3.9              6.5
Total Project Costs            40.8     26.5        67.3
(including taxes)
Taxes                           2.8        --        2.8
Total Project Costs            38.0     26.5        64.5
(net of taxes)
Proposed Financina Plan
IDA                            11.5      9.5        21.0
BOAD                            2.2      4.9         7.1
CCCE                           14.6       6.3       20.9
IFAD                            4.7      5.8        10.5
Government/Beneficiaries        7.8                  7.8
Total                          40.8     26.5        67.3



- vii -
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
1988      1989      1990       1991      1992
--------------- ns   million  ---------------
Annual                     1.0       5.2      4.6         3.0       2.1
Cumulative                 1.0       6.2     10.8        13.8      15.9
Proiect Benefits
The main direct quantifiable benefits will be the consolidation
of yield and production improvemaents achieved under the first Borgou
Project in the face of an unfavorable world market situation. The project
will help increase production of both food and cash crops, and open up the
rural areas and reduce transport costs through the rural road component.
It will enable Benin's key productive sub-sector to survive a rather abrupt
but expectedly temporary drop in export prices, thereby averting possible
severe depression in the economy at large. The project will also help
restore the financial viability of the key institutions in the rural sector
and, through its research and studies component, look for alternative crops
to permit diversification and prepare for the future.
Proiect Risks
The main risks ares (a) the possibility that international cotton
prices may recover more slowly than currently projected; and (b) a negative
farmer reaction to the 1987 farmgate cotton price reduction. If low
international cotton prices persist for a long time, several adjustments in
farm output mix will be necessary. Farmers could also adopt extensive
methods of production, reducing Input costs b- following simple technical
recommendations on cultural practices. However, in this circumstance,
cotton production would be lower than projected in this report. In
addition, there is a risk that the market for increased foodcrop production
will not materialize due to stagnation in national income. In that case,
food production increases will aslo be lower than projected or entail lower
food prices, which will benefit the consumers but not the producers.
Economic Rate of Returns 252.
Mapes IBRD 19394R Benin Borgou Rural Development Project Supplemental
Credit
20637   Benin Borgou Rural Development Project Project Area with
Principal Centers and Location of Development.



- ix-
PEOPLE'S REPUBLtC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVJLOPMENT PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHMT SOR TME RURAL SECTOR
UNIT       1974-76 Av.    1984185
1.   Population
Total                              M               3.1         3.9
Rural as S of Total                X              90.0        85.0
Rural Families                   '000            320.0       390.0
2.   Economic Overview
GDP/Head of Total Population       $             235.0       270.0
(constant 1983)
Agric. GDPIRead of Rural
Population          ,             $             116.2       140.0
Agriculture GDP as S of Total      S              39.0        44.0
3.  Land Use
Land Area                   '000  Sq. km         113.0       113.0
Perennial Crops                  '000 ha         143.0       135.0
Annual Crops                     '000 ha         723.7      1042.3
4.   Production (Volume Indices)
Cotton                                           100.0       347.6
Maize                                            100.0       171.9
Sorghum                                          100.0       164.4
Root Crops                                       100.0       139.8
5.   Inguts
Fertilizer                       '00: tons         7.5        15.8
insecticides                     '000 1          631.0       940.0
ULV Equipment                      No.           947.0      2030.0
6.   Trade (Current Prices)
Total Exports (FOB)                $ a            37.4       170
of which
Agricultural Products          S              72.0       n.a.
of whichs  Cotton              X              29.6        24
Cocoa               1              8.3         25
Palm Products       S             20.3          4
Total Imports                       $ m           185.2       312
of which
Agricultural Products           X               7.0        35
Cereals                       I               1.8       n.a.
Agricultural Inputs             S               0.2       1.9
n.a.s not available



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Government of the People's Republic of Benin has requested
lDA's assistance in financing the second phase of a rural development
project in the Province of Borgou. The project will follow on
activities started under the First Borgou Province Rural Development
Project (Cr. 1127-BEN), which became effective in March 1982 and was
originally scheduled to close in December 1985. The closing date has
subsequently been exter4ed to December 1988 to allow for construction
and equipment of two ginneries being built under a loan from the French
aid agency, Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and a
dupplementary credit approved by IDA in April 1986. The basic
objectives of the ongoing Borgou Province Rural Development Project,
which,aim to increase rural incomes and promote exports by expanding
agricultural production through improved technical infrastructure,
extension, training, credit, marketing, and other support services,
will remain valid for the second phase. Greater emphasis will, however,
be placed on farm productivity improvement and the efficiency
improvement of rural development institutions. The project will also
aim at initiating structural reforms in the rural sector, starting with
an action program for the cotton sub-sector during the project period.
1.02      The project has been prepared by the FAO World Bank Coopera-
tive Program (FAOICP) in collaboration with officials of the Planning
Unit (Direction des Etudes et de la Planification - DEP) of the Ministry
of Rural Development and Cooperative Action (MDIRAC) and personnel from
the Borgou Province Rural Development Agency, CARDER (Centre d'Action
R4gionale pour le Developpement Rural). A joint appraisal mission
consisting of IDA and CCCE staff visited Benin in May 1986. The mission
was assisted by DEPIMDRAC, management and staff of the CARDER Borgou and
the central marketing and input supply agency, SONAPPA, and staff
responsible for cotton and foodcrop research in the northern provinces.
II. THE RURAL SECTOR
A.   Sector Characteristics
2.01      Benin has a land area of about 112,600 km' and its population
is estimated at 4.3 million in 1987, growing at 3.1X per annum as of
1984. With an estimated per capita GNP of US$280 in 1986, Benin remains
one of the poorer nations in the world. Average annual growth rate of
GDP has been estimated at 3.42 for the period 1980-85. Agriculture, the



most important eector of the economy, employs about 75? of the active
popuiation and accounts for about 45? of GDP and, in recent years, about
half of recorded export earnings, in addition to some revenues earned
from unofficial exports of foodstuffs. Within the sector, about 721 of
the value of output comes from crops, 222 from livestock, and 32 each
from fishing and forestry products. Over 95 of rural output is
produced by individual small-scale farm units. There is however much
diversity in farm size, labor availability, ownership of agricultural
capital, productivity and revenues.
2.02      Historically, Benin has been self-sufficient in food
production. Between 1976 and 1986 local cereal production in volume
terms (principally maize, sorghum and millet) increased at the rate of
about 3.92 per annum, higher than the annual population growth rate of
3.12. Root crop production has been much more erratic and has only
increased on average at about 1.92 per annum. Rice and wheat imports
have risen from about 4? of cereal production in 1970-75 to about 19? in
1979-83.
2.03      The cotton sub-sector has rapldly become one of the more
important of the economy. In 1980, ezpDrts of cotton products accounted
for about 6? of the value of merchandise exports. This percentage rose
to an estimated 24? in 1985 due to the rapid increase in seed cotton
production from about 15,000 tons in 1981/82 to 89,000 tons in 1985-86,
in response to price incentives and prompt distribution of inputs made
possible through rural development projects started in 1982. Between mid
1985 and the first half of 1987, however, world market cotton prices
fell drastically to levels about 40 to 50? below the long-term average.
Prices are expected to remain low in real terms for the next two to
three years. This, together with the appreciation of the CFA Franc
relative to the dolla&, means that the sub-sector will face financial
difficulties in the next few years and will need to make some
adjustments.  In view of this, the Government will undertaki- measures to
reduce possible deficits, as contained in its Statement of Policy, which
includes an action plan for the cotton sub-sector. The Statement of
Policy was agreed upon at negotiations and submitted to IDA (paras 3.25
and 4.02(a) and Annex 2-1). A summary of actions already taken and
actions to be taken is given in Annex 2.2.
B.   Sector Institutions
2.04      All rural sector development policy and planning activities
fall under the general responsibility and supervision of the Ministry of
Rural Development and Cooperative Action (MDRAC). Regional rural
development agencies (CARDERs), at the provincial level, and several
semi-autonomous state companies at the national level are responsible
for executing policy. Central and regional Government institutions have
periodically been subject to sweeping staffing changes &t all higher and
medium levels. The latest such change occurred in the fall of 1987.
While it aimed a,. bringing staff with field experience into the central
administration and transferring younger staff to field positions where



- 3 -
they can develop some experience (an objective which was not apparent in
previous changes), it has created a need for extensive training combined
with a reduction in the frequency of such changes in the future.
2.05      The CARDERs' broad mandate covers all aspects of rural
development in their respective provinces, including extension,
livestock, forestry, credit, input delivery, development and
supervision of cooperatives, marketing and, it the case of three of the
CARDERs, management of cotton ginneries. The ginneries have however
been transferred from the CARDERs to SONAPRA from the 1987/88 season
(para 3.24(a)). The CARDERs are also expected to execute various
infrastructure projects on force account. As the rural development
agency for the Borgou Province, CARDER Borgou has beexs involved in all
the above activities. It has up to now been relatively efficient,
especially in promoting cotton production and cooperative development,
providing agricultural extension and performing primary marketing. It
has however been demonstrably weak in the areas of civil works,
management of ginneries and general accounting. Nevertheless, with the
support of the first Borgou Rural Development Project, much improvement
has been made in its accounting situation during the last four years.
2.06      The National Agricultural Production Atency (SONAPRA) has been
the official agency responsible for input procurement and export
marketing. It plays an important role vis-&-vis the CARDERs and
supplies them with fertilizer, insecticide, sprayers and other inputs
for distribution to farmers. It also acts as an intermediary with the
national banks to obtain credit for inputs. It finances the cotton
sub-sector's needs in inputs, primary marketing, transport and ginning.
It is responsible for the marketing of all export crops, including
cotton, coffee, karite, cashew, and tobacco. It also acts as an
intermediary between the CARDERs and SONICOG, the Government agency
responsible for fats and oils processing.
2.07      SONAPRA has managed stabilization funds for the various export
crops until now: cotton, coffee, cocoa and karite. The audited accounts
at the end of 1985 showed the cumulative level of the stabilization
funds at about CFAF 13 billion. Until now, however, the true size of
the stabilization funds has not been known with certainty owing to the
fact that budgeted costs (bareme), on which the stabilization fund
estimates were based, were often different from actual costs. Besides,
there have been no rules governing the operation of the fund, and hence
monies have been withdrawn from the stabilization account for SONAPRA's
general operations. A large part of the stabilization funds has been
used by SONAPRA to prefinance the cotton sub-sector. The prefinancing
needs have increased more than fivefold since 1981/82 because of the
rapid expansion of cotton production. Over the past three years for
example, SONAPRA has had to bear extra costs not included in the cotton
budget, but related to additional storage, transport and processing of
the national seed cotton production in excess of ginning capacity.
Measures to improve control of the cotton sub-sector's financial
management Include the creation of a Stabilization Fund with an
independent Management Committee, xhich will also be responsible for
supervising the cotton account (para 3.20).



- 4 -
2.08      The Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) is the national
agency responsible for agricultural credit. It has extended credit to
state enterprises, the CARDERs and farmer groups. At the provincial
level, it has operated through the regional agricultural credit banks
(CRCAM) and at the district level through the local agricultural credit
banks (CLCAMs). CNCA has extended several credits to non-viable state
enterprises and groups and, as a result, has now suspended all its
credit activities. The Government is considering a general banking
reform which will include CNCA's liquidation. The CRCAMs, which are
managerially autonomous, are relatively more efficient and able to
continue credit processing in their provinces. Under the project,
agricultural credit for fertilizer and insecticides will continue to be
channelled through SONAPRA and medium-term credit through the CRCAM of
the Borgou Province.
2.09      Agricultural Research responsiblity has recently been
transferred from the Ministry of Higher Education to MDRAC. The
Department of Agricultural Research (DRA) is the main organization
responsible for formulating and implementing agricultural research
programs. It works through 13 research and production units (URPs),
which comprise research stations, laboratories and research centers.
Foodcrop research is conducted on trial sites, but cotton research is
directed from Cotonou. In 1985, the International Institute for
Tropical Agriculture (IITA) signed a cooperative research agreement with
Benin; it opened a station in Cotonou in September 1985. Overall,
agricultural research lacks appropriate funding and is supported only
partially through some of the ongoing rural development projects such as
the first Borgou and the Zou Projects. Up to now, it has had limited
impact on foodcrop production.
2.10      The Office National des Cdr4ales (ONC) was established at the
end of 1984 to market and guarantee the supply of cereals to the
population and agro-industrial units by constituting a security stock.
ONC's start-up was delayed at the suggestion of Bank staff to permit the
completion of a foodcrop marketing study financed by IDA. The final
repo,rt issued in May 1986 and a Food Security Study completed by FAO
suggest limiting government intervention in foodcrop marketing. The
main recommendations of the reports are that (a) efforts be made to
improve village level storage; (b) a system be set up to forecast and
diffuse output and price information; and (c) ONC establish and manage a
regulatory stock of approximately 12,000 tons of maize (about 32 of
1985186 production) and 1,000 tons of sorghum (12 of 1985186 production)
for the country as a whole. In this context, ONC would have to give up
most of the 35,000 tons of storage capacity it has since developed,
where substantial cereal losses have been registred as a result of
improper design and management. These recommendations have been
accepted in principle by the Government, and ONC is expected to start
operating along the lines recommended by the reports, except for the
constitution of the security stock. Bank staff are discussing the
overall foodcrop marketing issue with the Government to arrive at an
acceptable national policy. The project will support the improvement of
village level storage and the information gathering system on prices
recommended in the reports (para 3.11).



- 5 -
2.11      The Coogerative Movement.  Cooperative development was first
attemvA.ed in Benin around 1965 with the introduction of block
cultivation. Village groups (GVs) were also created to coordinate
fertilizer and other input distribution, extension services and crop
marketing. The Government introduced in 1977 the revolutionary
cooperative groups (GRVCs), where members had to regroup their
individually owned plots into a block and were expected to make
independent but coordinated decisions concerning the use of labor,
inputs, equipment and cultivation practices. As planned, the GRVCs
evolved in 1978 into a *superior' form of farmer organization called
Experimental Agricultural Cooperative of the Socialist Type (CAETS),
where farmers work together utilizing jointly-owned means of production
and share their output based on a point system. Despite official
preference for GRVCs and CAETSs, membership has been on the decline and
today constitute only 52 of the total number of farmers in the Borgou
Province. Because of this lack of interest, the old notion of village
groups has been revived. They performed well under the first Borgou
Project and their support will continue. The GVs provide numerous
farmer services, such as credit, input supply and primary marketing.
C.  The Government's Agricultural Obiectives and Strategy
2.12      The Government's general rural development objectives (as
stated in the Third Development Plan under preparation) are to increase
agricultural production to maintain food self-sufficiency; supply raw
materials for local processing; and increase export revenue (from both
foodcrop and cash crop sales). The implicit objective is to increase
rural income. Implicit also is the Government's point of view that food
self-sufficiency means ensuring regular supplies of low cost foodstuffs
to urban areas, as evidenced by its creation of the ONC to purchase and
market cereals (para 2.10). The promotion of cotton has also been a
consistent part of Government policy, justified because cotton has
proved to be an efficient and profitable use: of domestic resources.
Important losses were incurred by the cotton sub-sector in 1986 due to a
sharp fall in world cotton prices, but this situation has since reversed
itself.
2.13      Past Government attempts at implementing a coherent
agricultural strategy have failed (other than for cotton) due to
institutional weaknesses and a lack of farmer enthusiasm for many of the
policies promoted. Direct Government involvment in the production,
procuring and marketing of agricultural products other than cotton have
not achieved their intended objectives. This has particularly been the
case for farmer cooperatives, state farms and state ranches. The
Government started reviewing its approach to agriculture as early as
1982. More recently it has introduced price incentives and removed most
subsidies in a stated attempt to promote the private sector. It is,
however, in the process of solliciting a US$20 million equivalent credit
from the African Develoment Bank to revive three state ranches. The
justification of such a project is being questioned under the ongoing
discussions between IDA and the Government for the establishment of a
structural adjustment program. The weakness of central agricultural



institutions has resulted in a large degree of operational autonomy for
the CARDERs, which have become the preferred instrument of foreign
lenders for rural development.
2.14      The Government's main effective support to agriculture has
been for integrated rural development projects executed through the
CARDERs. While these operations are to some extent typical insulated
area-development projects, major efforts undeitaken through them in five
of the six provinces (Atlantique, Atacora, Borgou, Oueme and Zou) have
enabled the Government to extend services to about 952 of the country's
land area. The activities and approaches adopted have included similar
project components, with obvious variations to account for the economic,
social and ecological differences in the zones concerned.
2.15        Various multilateral and bilateral donors, including IDA,
have been close partners of Benin in executing these projects. As a
result, cotton production which had gradually dropped from an index of
137 in 1972/73 (base 100 in 1970/71) to 40 in 1981/82 (a severe drought
year), rose up again to 253 in 1985/86, when climatic conditions were
much more favorable. The same year, however, a substantial drop in
cotton yields accompanied an equally substantial increase in planted
area, indicating that cotton may have started spreading into less
suitable soils. Over the last 10 to 15 years, all food production has
been cyclically influenced by climatic factors and in particular by the
1980/82 drought. Otherwise, r¶ize, usually planed after cotton and
indirectly benefiting from the same modern inputs, has seen its
production increase at an avaerage of about 5 per annum. Yam and
cowpeas (niebe) production, for which there is a relative market
preference, has also grown at about 3Z per annum, i.e., at the rate of
population growth, while there has been no observable long-term increase
in manioc, sorghum or groundnut production. Farms have begun to show
technological progress, with increases in adoption of animal traction
methods, improved seeds and other modern inputs, especially in the
Borgou Province and for cotton. However, possibilities for future rapid
development of the sector appear less favorable than over the last few
years because of the following constraintss world market prices for
Benin's principal export crop (cotton) have declined but are expected to
recuperate in the next few years; foodcrop markets have not ex *nded
faster than population; land-exteLsive development pEatterns are reaching
limitst and parapublic institutions in the rural sectbr have grown
considerably in size while lacking management and funding adequate for
successful program execution. The Government will, therefore, have to
address a number of key issues if the rural sector's potential for
contributing to future growth is to be realized.
2.16      The future strategy will require a careful redefinition of the
role of the public administration and enterprises in helping the
agricultural sector reduce its unit production costs of export crops,
seek oppportunities of production diversification and generate new rural
employment opportunities in cottage industries and rural services. This
will have to be accompanied by the transfer of greater responsibility
for investments to the private sector and farmer groups; improvement in
the efficiency and management of parapublic rural development



- 7 -
institutionst and improvement of agricultural support services in the
sector. The rural sector study financed by the project (para 3.22) aims
at refining this strategy.
D.   Experience with Past Lending
2.17      Agricultural Sector Lending.  IDA's first intervention in the
Beninese rural sector was the Hinvi Agricultural Project (1969) which
assisted the Government in its attempt at establishing oil palm
plantations to support cooperatives and guarantee improved export
earnings. However, because of low farmer prices, poor farmer
organization, lower than average rainfall, etc., the project failed. A
full account is given in OED's Impact Evaluation Report No. 5029. IDA
also supported the Zou-Borgou Rural Development Project (1972), which
was a large integrated rural development operation covering the two
provinces, Zou and Borgou. This project encountered technical problems
as recommendations to farmers were not sufficiently adapted to varied
ecological conditions, and problems of agricultural policy did not
encourage production. The project was terminated prematurely by mutual
consent of IDA and the Government. It was followed up with a small
Technical Assistance Project (1977), which allowed preparation of other
projects. Subsequently, since 1981, IDA has tried to help the
wovernment achieve its objectives in the smallholder sector by financing
two -povince-wide rural development projects: the first Borgou Rural
Development Project (1981, paras 2.17-2.22), which has preceded the
proposed Second Borgou Rural Development project and the Zou Rural
Development Project (1982). IDA is also the executing agency for an
IFAD/OPEC-financed project in the Atacora Province. The Zou and Atacora
Projects are proceeding satisfactorily and have had considerable
success, especially in cotton production.
E.   The First Borgou Rural Develoiment Prolect (Cr. 1127-BEN)
2.18      Proiect Description.  The project, which became effective in
March 1982, focused on reorganizing and strengthening the implementing
agency, CARDER Borgou. It also aimed at improving its extension service
and staff training, developing farmer cooperatives, supplying inputs,
improving the marketing of cotton, assisting in applied agricultural
research and producing improved seeds. The Project includes components
to promote ox-drawn cultivation, develop bottomlands, maintain and drill
wells, execute studies, and establish monitoring and evaluation
procedures and structures.
2.19      Cotton production under the Project was particularly
successful, and this, combined with successes in other ongoing projects
(Zou and Atacora), led to a national cotton production exceeding
available ginning capacity. A new component was therefore added to the
Project to construct and equip two new cotton ginneries and storage
facilities and to acquire additional cotton transport equipment. These



- 8 -
new investments are being financed by the French Aid Agency, CCCE, a
reallocation of funds from the ongoing IDA credit, and a supplementary
IDA credit approved in April 1986.
2.20      Experience with the First Boraou Project.  The results in
terms of overall production are summarized in the table below. The
project Economic Rate of Return (ERR) including the costs of investments
for the two ginneries, extra storage and transport equipment has been
re-estimated at about 17X compared with 211 at appraisal. The
calculation takes into account a drop in actual and projected cotton
prices in 1985 of more than 30%, the rapid appreciation of the CFA Franc
due to the fall of the U.S. dollar, and the assumption that cotton
production will fall due to the possible disruption in agricultural
services in the province if the second project were not to materialize
(para 3.57). The ERR recalculation excludes all costs or benefits
associated with the second project.
2.21      While the main developments have been in cotton, appraisal
production targets have been exceeded for all principal crops. Improved
cotton yields have been particularly impressive, but the other crops,
especially cereals, also showed steady increases in average yield
traceable in part not only to the secondary effects of cotton fertilizer
but also to the introduction of new varieties of maize and improvements
in basic agronomic techniques made under the Project. Parmers
considerably increased their use of modern inputs, responding favorably
to the Government's policy of price incentives for cotton and timely
input supply. These impressive gains in production also reflect
improvements in CARDER extension efforts and services to farmers.
Ox-drawn cultivation has exceeded expectations and research results have
been encouraging, leading for example to the testing and introduction of
new higher yielding cotton and maize varieties. The table below
summarizes the evolution of production; further details are given in
Annex 2-3.
FIRST BORGOU PROJECT PRODUCTION OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS
1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86
-------------------'000 tons-------------------
Cotton     - Appraisal    9.4       11.9       16.9      19.8       23.6
- Actual      10.4       23.1      36.2       59.8      60.0
Maize      - Appraisal   13.7       14.9       15.9      19.4       24.8
- Actual      16.9       20.8      20.9       29.3      37.2
Sorghum    - Appraisal   19.9       21.9       23.1      26.9       32.8
- Actual      22.1       25.8      30.1       39.3      47.7
Groundnuts - Appraisal    4.9        5.2       5.5        6.3        7.8
- Actual       3.7        3.2      3.5         5.4       6.5
Niebe      - Appraisal    2.5        2.7       3.0        3.6        4.5
- Actual       3.6        4.7      5.1         6.1       7.3



- 9 -
2.22      The Project also helped improve significantly CARDER
accounting and financial management. Accounts showing three years of
arrears at effectiveness have been brought up to date and audited.
Project accounts have been well kept and certified by the auditors.
Despite these improvements in account keeping, clear administrative
procedures and financial management systems need to be set up to ensure
better relations with SONAPRA and other agencies and to accelerate
billing and bill recording. Given that in late 1982, the Government
passed on to the CARDERs all activities related to primary cotton
marketing, ginning, factory management and cotton transport, this
industrial activity, coupled with the recent large increase in cotton
production, has complicated the administrative and financial management
of the CARDERs and the financial relationship between the CARDERs and
SONAPRA, and has led to cross-indebtedness (para 2.23). As part of the
restructuring of the cotton sub-sector and to bring CARDER activity to a
manageable size, the Government has transferred management of the
ginning factories and cotton transport activities to SONAPRA (para
3.24(a)), with the CARDERs providing specific input supply and crop
collection services as a subcontractor to SONAPRA and on a free basis.
2.23      Major lessons learned from the First Borgou Project and
reflected in the design of the Second project concern (a) the need to
reorganize administrative, financial and accounting procedures to
reflect changing attributes and expansion in activities of the
institutions involved in the project (para 3.16); (b) the need to limit
CARDER activity to a manageable size and separate its public sector role
(extension) from its industrial and commercial role (cotton ginning and
marketing) (para 3.24); and (c) the necessity to provide enough
operating funds for the rapidly expanding cotton sub-sector (para 3.31).
F.   Recent Developments in the Cotton Sub-Sector
2.24      During the First Borgou Project and through the ongoing Zou
Rurrl Development Project (RDP), IDA has urged the Government to improve
the producer terms of trade for cotton within the limits of world market
prices. The cotton producer price has been increased rapidly in real
terms while input subsidies are being removed with a timetable for
complete elimination of all subsidies by 1989, the completion year for
the Zou RDP. The balance between input and output price increases has
been determined by the need to compensate farmers for cash income loss
resulting from subsidy removal. This policy program worked well from
1982 to 1985 when world market conditions were favorable but has
encountered difficulties since 1986 due to the drastic drop in world
market cotton prices and the appreciation of the CFA Franc against the
dollar.
2.25      Between 1982 and 1985, farmers received less than the export
parity price, and SONAPRA was expected to build up a Stabilization Fund
to maintain producer prices stable in the face of temporary shortfalls
in world market prices such as those of 1986/87. Although SONAPRA has
built up a surplus of about CFAP 11 billion in the cotton stabilization
account, in practice most of the funds are not immediately available in



- 10 -
liquid form because SONAPRA used up a part of the stabilization funds to
prefinance various reimbursable cotton act.vities of the CARDERs. The
CARDERs have also used up part of the funds that should have constituted
the Stabilization Fund as working capital. A recent study on
cross-indebtedness between institutions involved in the cotton
sub-sector has shown that four CARDERs (Borgou, Zou, Atacora and Mono)
owed SONAPRA a net amount of about CFAF 5.5 billion as of end September
1986. The CARDER debt, together with what SONAPRA paid out to finance
the deficit of the 1985/86 season, exhausts all the stabilization funds.
2.26      Implications of the Fall in Cotton Prices.  The sharp fall in
world market cotton prices in the 1985186 and 1986/87 seasons was
aggravated by the appreciation of the CFA Franc against the dollar over
the period. The September 1987 Commodity Price Forecast of the Bank's
International Economics Department estimates that cotton prices, in real
terms, will regain their 1984/85 level only after 1990. While world
prices have recently increased somewhat faster than forecast, the price
fetched by Benin's cotton has remained well below the world level due to
(a) advance sales at a time when cotton prices were lower; (b) poor
processing resulting in lower quality than in neighboring countries, and
(c) faulty marketing. These various events and factors have left the
sector in a financial situation for the 1986/87 season that threatens
the Beninese economy. Therefore, in addition to external support to
cover the shortfalls for 1986187, measures need to be taken to improve
processing and marketing efficiency and cut costs to prevent future
deficits.
2.27      The financial evolution of the cotton sub-sector will depend
on world market prices and the dollar/CFAF exchange rate over the next
few years. A detailed financial analysis carried out between November
1986 and March 1987 gave an estimate of the actual cost of the different
activities in the cotton sub-sector. Based on this study and the new
price projections for cotton, the sub-sector should be in balance from
1987/88 onward, provided the CFAF does not appreciate too much more
against the dollar. This estimate excludes support by the cotton
sub-sector for extension activities and operating expenses of the
CARDERs. Estimates of the cash-flow of the cotton sub-sector and the
assumptions underlying these estimates are detailed in Annex 2-4.
2.28      The seed cotton producer price was about CFAF lO/kg for the
1986/87 season, a price that guaranteed a decent net return per man-day
to producers. Farm budget-analysis shows that the 10 reduction in
producer price implemented for the 1987188 season will still result in a
reasonable net return, even though it will lead to a reduction of about
15Z in the net return per man-day (Working Paper No. 4-4). If maize
and groundaut prices were to return up to their 1984/85 level and
farmgate cotton prices were further decreased, a shift in cultivation
patterns might occur. However, cotton remains Benin-s main export,
cotton prices are politically sensitive and the Government is reluctant
to reduce them abruptly. Thus, while a decrease in producer price
remains th- single most powerful policy tool to quickly eliminate any
future deficits, it must be applied with caution.



- 11 -
2.29      Under the current cost and price configuration for the
sub-sector, the Government will have to adopt an action program to face
the crisis and restore the economic and financial viability of cotton.
The rehabilitation program already agreed on with the Government (paras
3.27-3.28) includess (a) transfer of the factories from CARDER
management to SONAPRA so as to regroup industrial and commercial
functions; (b) improved factory and spare parts management; (c) tighter
control over, and better monitoring of, expenditures; (d) reduction in
producer prices; and (e) elimination of input subsidies. Reorganization
of the financial and accounting departments of SONAPRA and the CARDERs
involved in cotton production and establishment of internal control
units for these institutions are essential measures to limit the deficit
and are being financed by a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance
(para 3.16).
G.  Bank Sector Lending Strategy
2.30      The main objective of IDA's strategy in the rural sector is to
increase smallholder productivity and reduce production costs in food
and export crop production by improving the efficiency of existing
activities and institutions. IDA's focus, through ongoing projects and
sector work, aims at strengthening MDRAC central services; reorienting
extension services to improve delivery of technical messages according
to zonal comparative advantage; developing farmer groupings; improving
input supply quality and procedures for foodcrop production; and
supporting activities in research, foodcrop marketing and improved seed
production. Policy discussions aimed at improving prices and incentives
to farmers, removing subsidies, improving the efficiency of the
remaining state enterprises, and providing credit for individual
smallholders are also part of IDA's strategy. While the focus of the
IDA's sector activities in the past has been to finance projects, the
strategy is to move financing toward sector support programs designed to
improve sector management and policies in order to limit recurrent
costs.
2.31        Through the ongoing rural development projects, IDA is
helping to improve extension services, input supply and credit, and
export promotion, and to ensure that government services reach a larger
number of farmers. It is also helping to improve financial management
and accounting in the key rural development institutions. More emphasis
is being placed on foodcrop production to maintain food self-sufficiency
and encourage some export. Furthermore, IDA has been instrumental in
persuading the Government to reduce subsidies over time and to follow a
more attractive pricing policy for cetton. Despite the substantial
production gains made through the area-based rural development projects,
the approach has shown signs of stress, with overbloated executing
institutions, weak coordination at the national level, financial
difficulties in supporting institutions, and slow adjustment to changing
internal and external conditions. The Government has asked for IDA
support in reorienting rural development strEtegy through a
reorganization of its cotton sub-sector ana a rural sector study that
could lead to a future sectorwide project (para 3.22). The Government's



- 12 -
overall financial situation is such that it will not be able to maintain
and improve activities started in the First Borgou Project from its
budget resources without continued external support. The Government has
therefore asked IDA to continue its support by financing an interim
project to consolidate and improve on the gains made under the First
Borgou Project and start the adjustment process in the rural sector.
The project has been designed to respond to this request.
2.32      Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The major rationale for IDA
support is that the project provides a basis for initiating structural
reforms in Benin's rural sector while continuing its support to rural
environment in Benin's largest province. The project is a mix of
project and program lending aimed at encouraging the Government to
pursue needed policy reforms. Agriculture remains the main sector in
Benin with a potential for growth in the short to medium-term. Given
the present difficult financial situation of Benin, it provides the best
hope for maintaining or increasing income for a large part of the
population. Policy improvements over the past three to four years have
been encouraging, and farmers have responded rapidly to more liberal
economic measures as evidenced by production increases in cash crops and
to a lesser extent, food crops. There are of course constraints, the
main one being the market, especially for foodcrops, likely to grow only
with the growth of population.
III. THE PROJECT
A. The Proiect Area
3.01      General.  The project covers the whole of the Borgou Province,
the largest of the six provinces, accounting for 45? of the country's
land area. Its population was estimated at 560.000 inhabitants in 1985,
representing approximately 14Z of total population. The climate of the
area is characterized by a single wet season varying from four months in
the extreme North to six months in the South. Most of the region is
classified as Savannah and the mean annual rainfall ranges from 850 mm
in the extreme North to about 1,300 mm in the South. Soils are of
medium fertility, predominantly sandy to sandy loams with some alluvial
soils in the North.
3.02      Agriculture.  The main crops grown in the province are cotton,
yams, manioc, maize, groundnuts and cowpeas. Farming systems in the
province vary according to agro-ecological region, the availability of
animal traction and whether or not cotton is grown. A typical farm
cover three to seven hectares tilled by four to six active agricultural
workers. It is estimated that about 70? of the farming families now
grow cotton and their number is increasing. Most farmers still practice
manual cultivation although animal traction is increasingly being used,
especially for cotton. Cotton farmers normally cultivate as much as
twice the area cultivated by non-cotton farmers, giver. their use of
animal traction.  While yields for cotton are in general relatively high



- 13 -
because of modern inputs, the level of husbandry for foodcrops remains
low; most farmers generally produce as much as they need for home
consumption. The Borgou Province is the major producer of livestock in
Benin, with 622 of the cattle herd and 37? of the small ruminant
population. Most farmers keep a few small ruminants and poultry. Most
cattle are in tranhumant herds owned and managed by the Peulhs.
B.   Proiect Objectives and Summary Description
3.03      The project is a continuation of the First Borgou Rural
Development Project (Cr. 1127-BEN) combined with a program of equal size
to initiate structural reforms in the rural sector. Its main specific
objectives aret
(a) to consolidate and improve the substantial gains made under
the First Project through strengthened farmer organizations,
improved input and credit availability and efficiency of the
extension system;
(b) to increase the productivity of smallholders in both foodcrop
and cash crop production by intensified field level research
and promoting development of cultivation methods best capable
of reducing unit production costs;
(c) to begin a program of sectoral adjustment starting with the
reorganization of the cotton sub-sector, and improve the
coordinating role of the CARDERs for other rural activities
and their efficiency in delivering services to farmers;
(d) to prepare and launch a longer term sector adjustment program
based on national and regional level studies; and
(e) to improve the overall financial viability of the cotton
sub-sector through cost reduction and better financial
management of the agencies involved.
3.04      The project, to be implemented over a three year period, has
rural development, institution building and cotton sub-sector
rehabilitation components. In view of the conditions prevailing in
Benin and of the nature itself of rural development activities, the
relative emphasis on each project component could, as the project is
implemented, be subject to adjustments and some costs reallocations.
The main components of the project aret
(a) Rural Development
(i) improved extension services for some 50,000 farm families
and intensified training for extension staff in the
Borgou Province;
(ii) agricultural credit for the purchase of inputs in the
province;



- 14 -
(iii)  further promotion of animal traction;
(iv) applied foodcrop and cotton research;
(v) strengthening of villages groups for primary cotton
marketing, credit recovery and foodcrop marketing;
(vi) environmental protection through rural forestry programs
and prevention of forest fires;
(vii)  a pilot program for the rehabilitation of 100 ha of
bottomlands and construction of 15 village wells for
human consumption and 50 small wells for vegetable
production; and
(Viii) rehabilitation and maintenance of about 300 km of feeder
roads in the province;
(b) Institution Building
(i) further improvements to the management of the CARDER
Borgou, also extended to Zou and Atacora CARDERs;
(ii) strengthening of SONAPRA's financial management and cost
control capability;
(iii)  establishment of a cotton Stabilization Fund;
(iv) establishment of a central audit, accounting and
financial training unit for the cotton sub-sector as a
whole; and
(v) studies and consultant services to help prepare a
medium-term restructuring and development program for the
rural sector; and
(c) Cotton Sub-Sector Rehabilitation
(i) redefinition of the respective roles of SONAPRA and the
CARDERs around the newly established Stabilization Fund;
(ii) changes in the financial and marketing policies and
procedures of the cotton sub-sector; and
(iii)  financial restructuring of SONAPRA and the CARDERs to
enable them to repay their debts to each other and the
outside economy.



_ 15 -
C.   Detailed Features
1.   Rural Develo,ment Activities
Extension and TraininA
3.05      During the First Borgou Rural Development Project, the CARDER
reorganized its extension services so as to try and follow principles of
continuous training of farmers and extension agents and to reach the
maximum number of farmer groups. The current system, however, lacks
systematic training of staff and adequate research contacts, and the
contact farmer approach is applied poorly. Furthermore, village
extension workers are required to collect a whole range of statistics
unrelated to their extension duties. It is expected that with
operational improvements of the CARDER Borgou Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) service, extension workers will be relieved of data collecting
duties. The in-service training for extension staff and subject matter
specialists (SMSs) will be intensified and decentralized, using two
training centers set up by the CARDER, one for the North and the other
for the South. Research staff will be more involved in the training of
extension service personnel and in trials at the farm level (para 3.11).
The project will construct and equip 33 subdistrict extension centers
and finance operating costs of extension and training. The project will
finance three man-years of technWcal assistance by an expert specialized
in training and human resource development.
Inputs and Credit
3.06      Credit.  Credit for fertilizer and pesticides will continue to
be channelled through SONAPRA. Seeds will be supplied by the seed farm
and through a system of seed farmers. Seed credit will be managed by
the CARDER while credit related to animal traction will be channelled
through the regional mutualistic financial institution, CRCAM. The
project will finance inputs for areas already planted with cotton and
for new areas coming under cotton and improved varieties of
focdcrops. The project will also construct eight permanent warehouses
in the Borgou Province for multipurpose storage, including inputs, seed
cotton and finished products. The main inputs to be provided are
fertilizer, improved seeds for cotton, maize, groundnuts and cowpeas
(niebe), and pesticides mainly for cotton. Both fertilizer and
pesticides will be procured by SONAPRA following the system already in
place (para 3.46).
3.07      Seed Production.  A national seed production plan is being
prepared by Government with PAO assistance to (a) streamline the
existing excessive sead production facilities; and (b) improve the
overall quality and respond to farmers needs of foodcrop seeds. Among
the existing seeds farms, the one established under the First Borgou
Project is considered among the best. The project will continue to rely
on contract farmers and farmer groups to produce improved seeds. The
existing cotton varieties in the country are being replaced by a new
high yield, high quality variety, IRMA 96-97, which is expected to cover
the entire country by 1989190. The project seed farm has started using



- 16 -
foundation seed produced by the research station at Ina during the
1986/87 season, the base seed to be multiplied by contract farmers. The
seed farm will also produce replacement seed for groundnuts (every four
years), maize (every three years) and ntebe (every four years). The
project will finance the additional investment costs of clearing and
destumping 100 ha at the seed farm site at Alafiarou; construction of
drying area, cribs, storage space at the seed treatment plant, and a
small office; and additional items of equipment.
Animal Traction Development
3.08        Purchase of Animals and E&uipment.  Many farmers use animal
traction but do not have the full set of equipment recommended for land
preparation because of past difficulties faced by the agricultural
equipment manufacturing cooperative, COBEMAG. As most of the cultivated
areas have not been destumped, farmers are unable to sow or weed with
animal traction equipment. The use of seeders is also limited by the
fact that cotton seeds are not 'delinted'. Future demand for
incremental animal traction will depend on the price level for cotton
and volume of demand for foodcrops, which will orient the farmers'
choice of more or less intensive cultivation methods. The project will
provide (a) equipment and the operating means for destumping about 1,500
ha through CARDER Borgou; and (b) funds according to demand for the
purchase of draft oxen (up to 3,000 pairs plus 750 pairs of replacement
steer), and up to about 14,000 units of animal drawn implements
including ploughs, carts, and seeders, and an adaptor to use seeders for
planting non-delinted cotton seed. The purchase of draft oxen and
traction equipment will be financed by IFAD. It is expected that funds
will be passed on to the CRCAM, which will onlend to farmers. This
medium-term credit will be for a four-year period at an interest rate of
112, with a down payment of 20X. This arrangement is currently in use
and has proved satisfactory to farmers.
3.09      Boko Training Center.  A national center exists at Boko, near
Parakou, for training rural development staff in the use of animal
traction. UNDP is currently financing the services of a FAO specialist
in animal traction, which are underutilized due Xo a lack of operating
funds for the center. The project will provide the center with some
needed equipment, an additional dormitory, and other facilities for
training extension staff, blacksmiths and livestock service staff.
Individual CARDERs will cover the direct training costs of their staff.
Applied Research
3.10      Foodcrop research for the Borgou and Atacora Provinces is
carried out on a 100 ha station by the research and production unit
(tURP) at Ina and on a network of eight trial sites. Cotton research is
carried out at six experimentation centers in Borgou and two centers in
Atacora. So far, resear'h has been commodity oriented. While such
research is necessary and will continue, more emphasis will be placed on
farm level research, as identified by the IFAD-financed ongoing fariming
systems research program conducted by the Semi-Arid Food Grain Research
and Development (SAFGRAD) unit, based at Ina. The project will continue



- 17 -
funding for farming systems research when the SAFGRAD program ends in
April 1988. The major objectives will be to improve systems of mixed
cropping, maintenance of soil fertility, soil conservation, evolution of
improved rotations, especially for cotton farmers, and optimum use of
animal traction. As part of the foodcrop research program, trial sites
will be established in the extreme North of the Borgou Province to test
new technologies in dryland farming in this area (drought tolerant
crops, adapted trees, moisture conservation practices, etc.). Full
rationale for the applied research component and details of the work
programs are available in Working Paper No. 1.5.  The project will
finance the URP's on-farm trials; construction of a small laboratory,
offices and some staff housing; field, office and laboratory equipment;
and operating expenses for the research program.  For cotton research,
the project will repair the laboratory at Parakou and supply vehicles
and equipment, housing and a store for a field unit at Pehunco in the
Atacora Province. The project will also finance three man-years of
technical assistance aimed at coordinating research programs and at
maintaining liaison with the Institute for Cotton and Textile Research
(IRCT). To improve the coverage of farm level problems, research and
CARDER staff will help train CARDER subject-matter specialists and
extensica staff, and regularly visit farmer fields.
Consolidation of Farmer Groups
3.11      The project will attempt to make most existing voluntary
farmer groupings, especially the village groups (VGs), functional and
capable of taking over a number of services now provided by the CARDER.
Most of the working GVs have received elementary training in cotton
primary marketing, but many are still unable to keep their own books.
The project will intensify the functional literacy training program to
teach farmers the techniques of addition and subtraction and, for a few
group leaders, courses in reading and writing in their local language.
The project will finance the operating costs and training materials for
the courses. In addition, the project will assist GVs, or groups of GVs
that have formed unions in the Province, in undertaking pilot foodcrop
marketing operations as recommended in the foodcrop marketing study
(para 2.10). 1/ The GVs and other groups will receive financial support
for the construction of grain storage facilities and/or cribs. A
two-month study will be financed at the beginning of the project to
determine where GVs require support and how the grain storage and
marketing will be managed. IFAD has proposed to add a small Village
11   Currently, several GVs have come together to form unions of
cooperatives for rural development (ACOONOR) which engage in
marketing mainly pharmaceuticals, but also some foodcrops and other
items. The union of cooperatives for rural modernization (ACOODER)
of Banikoara, which regroups a larger number of GVs, is better
organized and markets a wider range of items including imports,
spare parts for animal traction, equipment and foodcrops.



- 18 -
Fund to finance marketing and processing activities provided by women
groups. The project will also set up an economic observatory to monitor
and advertise foodcrop output and prices. Market prices will continue
to be collected weekly by the CARDER's M&E unit, and the project will
make facilities available for analyzing and publishing them widely.
This will be done by the M&E Unit in coordination with the reorganized
National Cereals Office.
Environmental Protection
3.12      Recent periodic droughts, especially in the North and extreme
North of the Province, have led to some environmental degradation and
forest fires. There is also a growing shortage of fuelwood and building
poles in the area, and individual farmers have started planting trees to
meet their fuelwood and building pole needs. To combat the effects of
drought and forest fires in the Province and support tree planting
programs, the project will support (a) the establishment and maintenance
of village level nurseries to supply plants for rural forestry programs
-- fuelwood, fodder and building poles; and (b) a program of educating
farmers on the effects of brushfires as well as reporting and
investigating such fires. The project will finance investments and
operating costs of 22 village nurseries (about two per district) of
about 0.5 ha each. Equipment will also be provided to the CARDER
Forestry Department to educate farmers and to report and investigate
brushfires.
Bottomland Develotment and Vell Construction Program
3.13      Bottomlands.  A considerable bottomland potential exists in
the Borgou Province, especially in the Banikoara district of the North.
This area remains one of the larger rice producing centers of the
country despite the fact that cotton production has considerably
increased 'n the district over the last five years.  Foodcrop production
in general remains a priority in the zone and farmers currently
cultivate rice in non-developed bottomlands. The project will develop,
on a pilot basis, 100 ha of bottomlands for rice cultivation. The
principal improvements will consist of constructing contour bunds, used
according to need for water conservation or drainage, and establishing a
central drainage canal. The project will provide farmers with inputs
and improved seed varieties as well as agricultural tools on credit.
Most of the manual labor for construction will be provided by the
farmers themselves.
3.14      Wells.  Village water supply in Borgou is for the most part
provided under ongoing programs, including a large project financed by
the West African Economic Community (CEAO), through a borehole program.
There are, however, a few dispersed villages where the population find
it difficult to maintain pumps, and other areas where the terrain favors
well construction. In these areas the aquifer does not generally exceed
20 m and therefore improved wells provide the best means of meeting the
needs of the population. The project will finance the construction of
15 wells through the Rural Engineering department of CARDER Borgou,
which already has two well construction brigades. The brigades will be



- 19 -
provided with the necessary complement of equipment and supplies. The
project will also provide financing for improving 50 traditional wells
used by farmers near bottomlands for irrigating vegetable perimeters.
Rural Road Construction and Maintenance
3.15      Through the involvement of IDA and several donors, a network
of rural roads has been constructed in the Borgou Province. Even though
the main road network appears adequate for Benin's needs, the condition
of unpaved roads is very poor, with large stretches in need of rehabi-
litation and regravelling. The road conditions often pose problems for
evacuating cotton during the marketing season. The project will
therefore finance the upgrading of about 300 km of road in the Borgou
Province, upgrading will be done to the minimum standard required for
traffic with 15-ton trucks. It will consist of spot improvements, ditch
digging, and road shaping for erosion control and drainage, small fords
construction, and gravelling where needed. No bridge construction will
be required but several culverts will be needed. Road upgrading will be
subcontracted to the rural roads unit (SRDR) of the Ministry of
Transport, set up under the IDA-financed Second and Third Feeder Roads
Projects. Most of the road improvement works will be esecuted on force
account by the SRDR, using labor intensive techniques. To ensure an
adequate annual maintenance of the rural road network not covered by the
SRDR, the Civil Works Department of CARDER Borgou will be provided with
limited staff and equipment for light, manual maintenance work which
will consist of filling up potholes and cleaning ditches. CARDER Borgou
will sign an agreement with SRDR on roads to be rehabilitated and
maintained and the timetable for completing the works.
2. Institutional Develomuent
CARDER Borto
3.16        IDA's efforts to improve financial management and control in
CARDER Borgou, started under the first Borgou Project (para 2.21), will
be strengthened and expanded. Systems must be put in place to
reorganize administrative, financial and accounting procedures.
Preparation activities for both CARDER Borgou and SONAPRA are financed
under PPF and are almost completed. For both CARDER Borgou and SONAPRA,
implementation of the agreed systems and procedures has already started
and will be pursued during project implementation (para 3.43). The PPF
advance will also finance a reorganization of the systems in CARDERs Zou
and Atacora. Implementation of new systems and procedures for the two
CARDERs will be done before release of the second tranche (paras 3.36
and 4.03(a)). In addition to the trainer and resource development
specialist (para 3.05), the project will finance an externally recruited
chief accountant and a financial advisor for CARDER Borgou. An internal
audit unit will be set up as part of the central internal audit service
being financed for SONAPRA and CARDERs Borgou, Zou, Atacora and Mono
(para 3.21). To ensure overall improvement of CARDER Borgou operations,
the project will also finance equipment and materials for training, the
strengthened M&E unit, and construction, maintenance and operating costs
of a workshop for vehicles.



- 20 -
3.17      An extensive review of CARDER activities was carried out
during the Financial and Organizational study of the cotton sub-sector
completed in March 1987. For CARDER Borgou, which is responsible for
the proviace with the largest cotton production, the study showed that
at least 70t of its activities are taken up by cotton-related duties,
such as marketing, storage and processing. With these commercial and
industrial activities transferred from the CARDERs to SONAPRA
(para 3.24(a)) from the 1987/88 season, CARD'R Borgou in particular will
be able to concentrate on its basic rural development role of extension
and related services to farmers, financed under the general Government
budget with assistance from external funding. The Government has asked
FAO to review the organization and activities of the CARDERs, analyze
the cost of running them, and propose appropriate structures, as well as
ways to finance them. The comprehensive sector review study (para 3.22)
will complement the FAO sector studies and prepare a future sector-wide
program including long-term financing plans for the CARDERs.
Modifications may become necessary in the general organizational
structure of the CARDERs, especially after the FAO study. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Government will discuss the
results of the PAO study with IDA and will implement within one year
agreed recommendations on the structures proposed in the study (para
4.01(a)).
SONAPRA
3.18        The strengthening of SONAPRA's financial management
capability started under the First Borgou Project and will continue.
Under the PPF advance, consultants have started preparing systems for
improving administrative, financial and accounting procedures in SONAPRA
and CARDER Borgou (para 3.16). SONAPRA will also establish a separate
accounting system for the factories transferred from the CARDERs. To
help with the implementation of these systems, the project will cover
the cost of a financial advisor and a chief accountant who will fill
hierarchical positions within these agencies.
3.19      As part,of the reorganization of the cotton sub-sector, the
Government has agreed that SONAPRA should sign a contract with the
French cotton development agency, CFDT, for technical support in the
management of the institution. The main basis for the contract is the
integration of the technical assistance team in the structure of
SONAPRA. Details of the technical assistance contract have been
discussed between the Government and SONAPRA, and an acceptable contract
agreed upon between the two parties. The posts to be filled by CFDT and
financed by the project as far as management assistance for SONAPRA's
industrial and commercial activities is concerned will be for an
industrial director and an electro-mechanic. CFDT will also provide
short-term consultant support for cotton grading, factory maintenance,
transport organization and other areas as necessary. The Government has
consulted five firms, one of which will provide assistance for financial
management (para 3.18). Signature of the contracts for technical
assistance to SONAPRA is a condition of credit effectiveness
(para 4.02(a)).



- 21 -
The Stabilization Fund and Cotton Sub-Sector Manatement Committee
3.20       The Government has decided to reorganize the export crop
stabilization fund and set it up as a self-standing institution
independent of SONAPRA (para 2.07). The Fund will be managed by a
Management Conmittee, chaired by the Minister of Rural Development and
Cooperative Action. The Committee will be responsible for monitoring
all cotton activities in the sub-sector, including supervision of the
implementation and accounts of the cotton program, and for deciding how
to use the resources of the Stabilization Fund. Both the Fund and the
Management Committee and its permanent secretariat were set up by decree
in December 1987. The secretariat, to be staffed as a condition for
credit effectiveness (para 4.02(b)) will be responsible for the
day-to-day management of the Fund. The secretariat, to be headed by a
director, will regularly analyze, and provide up-to-date information on,
the financial situation of the cotton sub-sector to the Management
Committee. It will prepare quarterly reports on the situation of the
sector. In view of the numerous joint activities between the
Secretariat and SONAPRA, the two institutions will conclude a working
agreement before September 30, 1988 outlining their responsibilities.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para 4.01(b)).
An interim working agreement will be signed between the two agencies to
cover the period before September 30, 1988, immediately after the
nomination of a director for the Fund. The project will finance an
externally recruited financial controller who will be responsible,
together with stzff of the secretariat, for controlling financial
activities in the cotton sub-sector and for carrying out frequent
studies and analyses of the various elements which determine the cost
price of cotton. Three or four high level Beninese economists and
agro-economists and a chief accountant will be recruited to work in the
secretariat. In addition the project will finance an external
consultant support unit as back-up for the secretariat. Details on the
operations of the Stabilization Fund and responsibilities of the
secretariat are given in Annex 3-1.
Central Financial Services
3.21      As part of the improvement in the financial and administrative
systems and procedures of SONAPRA and the CARDERs, the project will set
up two services within MDRAC, one for internal audit and the other for
training in accounting. An internal auditor will be responsible for
organizing internal audit units in SONAPRA and in each of the four
CARDERs. The project will finance the initial investment for setting up
the internal audit units and the operating costs of the central office,
but the individual CARDERs (Borgou, Zou, Atacora and Mono) will have to
provide the operating expenses required for their tmits. The project
will also finance the cost of a trainer for two years, whose function
will be to train clerical and other staff of the CARDERs and SONAPRA in
accounting and financial procedures. The equipment and supplies needed
for training will be provided under tha project. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government will start the recruitment
process for technical assistance well in advance to ensure that the
experts are in place before June 30, 1988.



- 22 -
Medium-term Restructuring and Development Program and Studies
3.22      The project will provide the foundation for accelerating the
preparation and start-up of a medium-term sector restructuring and
development program to be started around 1990. The reorganization of
the cotton sub-sector supported by this project (para 3.25) is a first
step in the structural adjuetment process in the rural sector. Further
recommendations for future sectoral activities, institutional changes
and policy reforms will be generated throug?. a sector study financed
mainly through funds provided by this project. The study, to be
implemented within about one year, will first collect the data necessary
for a comprehensive diagnostic of the sector. In a second phase to be
conducted in close collaboration between Government, the CCCE and IDA,
agreement will be sought, through a step by step approach, on the
proposed objective activities, changes and reforms; on a work program to
implement the proposals; and on eventual IDA and other donor
participation in financing the program. The final document should also
provide the basis for a sectoral round table meeting. The study will be
implemented by a consultant firm now in the process of selection.
However, direct and substantial IDA (in collaboration with the FAOICP)
and CCCE staff involvement will be needed at the policy formulation and
negotiation stages.
3.  Cotton Sub-Sector Rehabilitation Proaram
3.23      In addition to the improvements brought to the accounting,
financial management and processing activities of SONAPRA and the
CARDERs (paras 3.16, 3.18 and 3.19) and the establishment of an
independent Stabilization Fund (para 3.20), a separate cotton sub-sector
component will (a) help the Government redefine the roles of each
institution with a view to tighter management control and cost
reductions; (b) promote changes in financial and marketing policies and
procedures to best ensure proper response to changing world cotton
market conditions by the farmers and the public entities; and (c)
provide funds to repay past debts of those entities to each other and to
outside suppliers (resulting in part from the shortfall in cotton income
in 1986/87) to improve their financial viability and standing, -?oid
disruptions in essential services and pave the way to the eventual
privatization of some of the activities presently carried out by the
State.
Chanaes in the Functions and Structures of SONAPRA and the CARDERs
3.24      The main reforms on which agreement has been reached with
Government are:
(a) transfer of the cotton ginning factories from the CARDERs to
SONAPRA: the Government has given SONAPRA effective management
responsibility as of end October 1987, and as a condition for
disbursement of the second tranche of the IDA funds supporting the



- 23 -
cotton program, the Government will complete legal and
financial transfer of ownership by December 1988 (para
4.03Cb));
(b) modification of the structure of SONAPRA to include an
industrial department and a bureau of transport (for seed
cotton, lint and inputs), and to remove the stabilization
function from SONAPRAs this structural modification of SONAPRA
will be a condition for credit effectiveness (para 4.02(c)),
and modification of its statutes will be a condition for
disbursement of the second tranche (para 4.03(c)); and
(c) management by SONAPRA under Stabilization Fund supervision of
all financial transactions in the cotton sub-sectort in this
light, the role of tha CARDERs will be to provide contractual
services to SONAPRA for seed cotton purchase and input
distribution, for which they will be paid based on agreed unit
costs; for this purpose SONAPRA will, before credit
effectiveness, sign working agreements with all CARDERs
concerned, outlining the responsibilities of each, the timing
of key actions and payment terms for services (para 4.02(d)).
The agreements will be updated annually as a condition for
release of the second tranche supporting the cotton sub-sector
(para 4.03(d)).
Chanmes in Policies and Procedures
3.25      The main changes proposed ares
(a)  improvement of grading procedures for lint and ginning
practices and implementation of the main recommendations of a
cotton marketing study financed by IDA through the Zou RDP
(Cr. 1314-BEN) on the use of sales agents paid on commission
for cotton export marketing instead of current marketing
through numerous intermediate traders; acceptable contracts
with agreed firms are to be signed before credit effectiveness
(para 4.02(e));
(b) replacement of the current system of payment by Obarbme with
a system where services used in the sub-sector are paid at
actual cost;
(c) limitation of advances made by SONAPRA to field agents for
seed cotton purchase to the value of purchase less credit
reimbursement; and
(d) reduction of the cotton producer price from the previous
season's CFAF 110/kg to CPAP 100/kg for 1987188 with a
possible further reduction for the 1988189 season if
additional cotton deficits are observed. At the same tine,
subsidy on fertilizer has been removed, and subsidy on
insecticides, reduced to 152 for 1987188, will be completely
eliminated from the 1988189 season onward.



- 24 -
3.26      The above measures are included in a Policy Statement
discussed during negotiations and sent to IDA (Annex 2-1). Pricing
arrangements for inputs and seed cotton will be subject to a joint
review by the Goverrment and IDA before the end of February each year,
at which time prices may be adjusted by mutual agreement; the new prices
will be announced by the end of March each year. The main principle to
be followed in fixing producer prices will be to use a three year moving
average of the past two years border prices together with the projected
border price for the coming season. However, it may be necessary in the
price fixing process to include (a) analysis of input costs and world
market trends for cotton; (b) analysis of producer response to price
signals (area and production response to the combined 112 decrease in
producer price and 252 increase in input costs for 1987/88); and (c)
review of changes in production and processing costs for lint, as well
as transport costs. The annual price review will consider these
factors.
3.27      Additional measures agreed on and for which actions have
already been taken are as followss (a) sale of excess seed cotton
production for 1986/87 to two private dealers for ginning outside of
Benin; 2/ (b) establishment of two grading centers for cotton lint, one
at Parakou for the North and the other at Bohicon for the South;
(c) reduction in cotton area planted in 1987/88 by channelling inputs to
the higher yield areas only to limit production for that season between
90,000 and 100,000 tons, in line with the ginning capacity; and (d)
steps to accelerate construction of two ginning factories being financed
by CCCE and IDA through a supplementary credit (para 2.17). SONAPRA
will prepare and agree annually with IDA on a detailed budget for cotton
sub-sector activities and key indicators (ginning ratio, product
quality, etc.). The first such budget for the 1987/88 season was
discussed at negotiations. The budget for the 1988/89 season will be
reviewed as a condition for disbursement of the second tranche of the
IDA funds supporting the cotton program (para 4.03(e)). The annual
budget for the cotton sub-sector activities will also indicate financing
sources and arrangements for the cotton account.
3.28      Tnese measures will improve efficiency in the cotton
sub-sector and will lead to cost reductions in processing and marketing,
and savings estimated at over CFAP 2.2 billion each year on the cotton
account. Improvements in cotton grading and lint marketing could also
result in extra receipts of close to ClAF 1 billion for the economy.
The measures are therefore expected to reestablish the financial
viability of the cotton sub-sector. From 1987/88, based on current
world market price projections, the industry should be able to cover all
its costs.
2/   Total production for the 1986/87 season was about 133,500 tons
compared to a ginning capacity of about 95,000 tons, stretched to
about 123,000 tons. The Government sold about 10,000 tons of seed
cotton to two private traders for ginning in Nigeria and Turkey.



_ 25 -
Financial Restructurina
3.29      Obiectives of the Financial Restructuring.  The main objective
of the financial restructuring is to enable the cotton sub-sector as a
whole to repay its debts to the outside economy (the banking system,
suppliers and farmers) so as to be able to contract new credits and
obtain supplies for upcoming seasons. The banking system, for example,
is unwilling to approve new seasona 'redits for the 1987/88 crop
marketing season or the 1988/89 input season without a guarantee that
all outstanding 1986/87 debts will be settled within the next few
months. External donors will therefore help the sector to repay the
debts through the financial restructuring process to provide the cotton
sub-sector with (a) enough funds to settle all its internal debt arrears
and thus meet its obligations to third parties, and (b) a reasonable
amount as initial working capital. An analysis of the financial
statements and balance sheets of SONAPRA and CARDER Borgou is provided
in Annex 3-2.
3.30      In the financial restructuring five groups of interest are to
be taken into accounts
(a) the CARDERs which owe about CFAP 5.5 billion to SONAPRA as of
September 30, 1986 31 but have stocks of factory inputs and
cotton products worth about CFAF 1.7 billion which will be
transferred to SONAPRA as part of the reorganization;
(b) SONAPRA to which the CARDERs owe CFAP 5.5 billion but which in
turn owes ClAP 3.8 billion to the Stabilization Fund;
(c) the Stabilization Fund, which is to be separated from SONAPRA
during the reorganization and established as an independent
entity, is owed CFAF 3.8 billion by SONAPRA;
Cd) the Government, which is responsible for financing the CARDERs
and providing them with appropriate working capitals, has also
to pay up CFAF 1.05 billion to the CARDERs and CPAF 0.5
billion to SONAPRA to fully liberate the initial capital of
each entity; and
(e) the banking system, outside suppliers and farmers, to whom the
sub-sector entities owe about CPAP 7.6 billion (CARDERst
CFAF 1.2 billion, and SONAPRAs most of the remainder).
3/   Down from CFAF 9.3 billion in December 1985.  More recent accounts
are not available.



- 26 -
3.31      Pronosals for the Financial Restructuring.  The financial
restructuring package, made necessary mostly because of CARDERs debts
and therefore to be considered a Government responsibility, will
comprise the following operationst
(a) the definitive situation of debts and value of stocks at the
CARDER level will be established as of September 30, 1987;
(b) the project will finance inputs or make direct payments (para
3.35) to the value of US$20 million, which will generate for
the Government approximately CFAF 6 billion for the financial
restructuring;
(c)  the Government, using the above funds, will pay off the debts
of the CARDERs to SONAPRA of CPAF 5.5 billion, part of this
amount (CPAF 1.05 billion) being considered as the Government
liberating its share of CARDER long-term capital aad the rest
considered as contribution to past operating expenses; the
Government at the same time will pay SONAPRA's remaining
call-up capital of CFAF 0.5 billion, amount which could be
used to purchase needed spare parts for inter-season
maintenance of the factories;
(d) SONAPRA, using the CFAF 5.5 billion received in payment of
CARDER debts, will reimburse its debt of CFAF 3.8 billion to
the Stabilization Fund;
(e)  SONAPRA, using the CFAF 1.7 billion remaining from funds
received for CARDER debt repayment, will purchase the stocks
from the CARDERs; the CARDERs will use most of these funds to
pay their past debts to suppliers; and
(f) the Stabilization Fund, having received CFAF 3.8 billion, will
pay either the banking system, suppliers or farmers for part
of the debts on the cotton account for 1986/87 estimated at
about CFAF 6.4 billion (para 2.25). The remaining part of the
1986187 debt of about CFAF 2.6 billion will be paid for,
through the project, as a aoft loan to the Stabilization Fund
as part of the cotton sub-sector reform program to be repaid
at 42 interest over 15 years.
D.   Proiect Cost and Financina
1. Cost Estimates
3.32      The total project cost has been estimated at CFAP 19.9 billion
(US$67.3 million) over three years, of which CFAF 7.8 billion
(US$26.3 million) or 392 is in foreign exchange and about CFAP 0.8
billion (US$2.7 million) or 42 of the total costs are taxes and duties.



- 27 -
Costs are based on May 1986 prices adjusted for inflation to October
1987. 41 Total cost estimates include about CFAP 11.3 billion (US$38.3
million) to finance field level activities in the Borgou Province,
applied foodcrop and cot'.on research, rural roads, and components for
technical assistance in SONAPRA, for improving financial management in
SONAPRA and the other CARDERs, and for conducting the studies that will
develop the medium-tenm restructuring and development program. The
estimates include US$29.1 million for inputs and factory spares, the
counterpart funds of which will be used for financial restructuring of
SONAPRA and the CARDERs.
3.33      Cost estimates include physical contingencies of between 5 and
102 applied to the various cost categories (excluding local personnel
and most of the financial restructuring package). Price contingencies
on both local and foreign costs have been compounded yearly at the rates
of 122 for 1986, 3? for 1987, and 12 for 1988 and 1989 in line with
World Bank Projections of August 12, 1986. Total contingency allowances
are estimated at CFAF 2,055 million (US$7 million or 11.52 of total base
costs). The estimates of project cost are summarized below and a yearly
breakdown is given in Annex 3-3.
4/   Since project negotiation in early November 1987, the U.S. dollar
has declined against the CFAF Franc. In case this decline is not
shortly reversed or other obligations of the sub-sector reduced
(through greater efficiency, etc.) additional financing for the
cotton sub-sector may have to be sought. This can partly be made
up by project price contingencies, but there is a risk of
underfinancing.



- 28 -
PROJECT COST SMMAIRY
(CFAF PMIlIon)              (USilIiIote)                    X Totl
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     Foreign   6ase
Locnl    Foeilo    Total   LAoCl   Porous Total  Exchnn        Cuon
A. Agjrcultural DOv.lopm_t
Extonsion & Training               285.4    29.4    440.8    0.6    *.7    1.5    47                2.5
Permanent Warehouse                180.0      S0.0    249.6    0.6    9.2   0.6         25          1.8
I-`tap    (0rgou)                  1J0.5    061.9    982.5    *.4        2.8   8.2    so            5.2
Aniz l Tr ctlon                    468.4     890.      854.3     1.6     1.8   2.9    46            4.6
9oko Training Centr                 26.4      J8.2      60.6    9.1    *.1   0.2    06              6.8
Seed Produmlon                      92.4     120.1     212.5    0.8    0.4   *.7         7          1.2
1117.1    1618.6   2739.6    8.6      5.5   0.8    S0           15.8
S. Reosarch                             48J.8     tO7.6    $91.6    1.7    1.7   8.4         51          5.6
C. Cooperative Developm_nt              25.6      U 16.0    8066.6    9.7    9.8    1.9    38            1.7
0. Environmental Protectlon              42.9      79.8    122.5    0.1    9.8   0.4    a6               0.7
E. Bas Fond DeOolopment a Willo         191.7     106.6    296.8    *.8    0.7    1.9 J       6          1.7
F. Rural Road.                          817.9    666.1    1164.0      1.1    2.9   4.0       i4          6.7
0. Inatitutional Obeolopment
CARDER Sorgou                      70t.5  1i02.8   1702.8    2.8    8.6   6.1    61                10.1
SOMAPRA & Stabilization Funw       166.5    907.2   1124.7    *.5    8.8   8.0    S6                6.8
Internal Audit                      98.9    119.4    212.4    9.8    9.4   9.7    S6                1.2
Accounting A Financial Training     17.8      697      !LtI    9.1  0.8   04             8          0.6
0490.    2266.6   8287.4    8.2    7.6   11.0    71            16.2
H. Studiese  Audite                      78.1    667.7      760.6     9.2    2.2    2.4    o0            4.1
1. Inputs and Sprar Parte              7M70.       M-g    a200    26.7    L.1  27.8    16               46.1
TOTAL AU  COST                        11161.4   60.6   17801.2   87.6   22.5  06.8    87               106.0
Physical Contingncies                   416.7    462.8    60.0        1.4    1.7   8.1    64
Price Contingntiem                      470.6    664.6   1155.2    1.6    2.8    8.9    59
TOTAL POJECT COSTS                    126.6    7667.9   16657.8   40.6   26.6  67.8    80
-            -                _.   a                  __



- 29 -
2. Financing Plan and ArranQmeents
3.34        All financing vill  be on a parallel basis.   Fulfillment of all
conditions preceding the effectiveness of the loans and credits of other
external donors will be a condition of IDA credit effectiveness
(para 4.02(f)). Financing of total costs will be shared in the
following amounts and proportions.
(USl8    o 110n)
IDA     CCCE        OM    IFAD      aovern-  Be Itel-
m*nt      erie.        TOTAL
Building A Construction l/               1.C5                6.75              0.45                     2.25
Feeder Roads k/                                              4.72              9.14                     4.66
Oottomland Developmnt kI                                     9.67                                       09.7
well. to                                                     9.89              0.95                     0.85
Environmntal Protection                                      0.50                                      9*.5
Fooderop A Ssta.s  Reearch E.                                        1.92      9.64                     2.56
Fooderop MIrkeo ing/Oborv tory 0*S                                   0.61                               1.04
Incremental Inputs sorgou  /                                         8.86                  9.t5         8.91
Medium-Term Credit S/                                                2.88                  9.os         2.99
Vehicl fJ                                        1.18                        9.18                     1.26
EquIpment fj                             1.8                                   0.15                     1.61
T,chnical Assistance 2/                  8.10      8.41                                                 6.51
Studies, Training & Conoultonto kI       8.10      0.94                                                 4.94
Operating Costs j/                       2.71                                  2.90                     6.61
Inputs end Spare Parts                   LS       14 89       -40              2. 9                    29.04
TOTAL:                          209.8    2G.90       7.14  19.52        6.56       1.21        07.80
- OAD finances 0*5 of perx   e _ are housot IDA finnnce  80% of other B A C except
for a A C under fooderop rarch ftnonead by IfAD; Oovernmeqt finane. 29X of
all but lding & construction coets.
B EOAD finane. 1995 net-of-tax.
3/  IFAD finane. 1993 net-of-tax, except for local personnel A construction where
Government finannes 199% and 201 rspctive ly.
J   CCCE fInance. 1993 of fooderop Mear  ting A Observatory A IfAD 1905 of the
ViIIage Fund.
eJ  IFAD finances 65X of Tneremntal Inputs and 76X of omdium-ter credit
respectively.
t/ CCCE finance. 99O of *al vehicloo; and IDA fin ncne 9NU of all equipment (exe pt
vehicleo a equipment for fooderop reserch financed by IFAD, Government finane"
1OX of *al vehicle. and eqipeont.
g/  CCCE finances 199X of all TA for STNAPRA includin teir direct operatin coat
and trainer for Borgou; IDA finane.o the romining TA (financial expert A
accountant for Oorgou, Internal auditor and tri ner and TA for the Stabili ation
Fund).
yl  IDA financs 1409X ofll tralnino (except fooderop reserch) and all studies and
consultants relatod to accounting proe dures sector study, consultant support
for Stabilization Fund, and annual audits; CCCE flnance. preparation of *sctor
project A other studies in Doroou
/   IDA finonce. 705 of all oper ting costs (except fooderop reserch, local
pp ronnol and SONAPRA). Government finane" 1995 of all local personnel costs
plus 89X of all other operatingo  oe.



- 30 -
3.35      Combined external funds amounting to US$59.5 million
equivalent and the Government funds amounting to US$6.6 million will be
passed on as followss
(a)  approximately US$12.1 million from IDA and IFAD will be
utilized by the Government to pay for the inputs and factory
spares purchased by SONAPRA. About US$17 million equivalent
will be provided by CCCZ and the Government either through
direct payment of suppliers, tax relief (on the part of the
Government) or as deposits into a Stabilization Fuid Account
to be opened in BCEAO for purposes of financial restructuring
(paras 3.31 and 3.37)) and stabilization support for the
1986/87 season. The counterpart funds generated by the sale
of inputs financed by IDA and IFAD will be paid by SONAPRA to
the Stabilization Fund account. Signature of a financing
agreement between the Government, the Stabilization Fund and
SONAPRA is a condition for credit effectiveness
(para 4.02(g)); and
(b) the balance of project funds (US$38.3 million) will be passed
on to the executing agencies as grants, except that funds for
animal traction credit will be onlent to CRCAM under
conditions satisfactory to IFAD (which will finance this
component).
3.36      Financing for inputs and spare parts in support of the Cotton
Sub-Sector Rehabilitation Program, including the financial restructuring
of the CARDERs and SONAPRA, will be released in two tranches. The first
release will be at credit effectiveness, and the second tranche
approximately one year later or earlier and will be conditional upon the
fulfillment of specific agreed actions (para 4.03) and upon satisfactory
progress in the implementation of the rehabilitation program. SONAPRA
expenditures on fertilizers, insecticides and factory spares (required
to repair the ginneries for the 1987188 season) incurred after
November 1, 1987 and which have been procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) or procedures acceptable to IDA, will be
eligible for retroactive IDA reimbursement, up to a total equivalent to
US$5 million. These expenditures will represent part of the
US$28.6 million adjustment program.
3.   Financint Procedures and Special Proiect Account
3.37      In view of the Goverrment's limited capacity to pref±nance
project expenditures, a Special Account will be set up at BCEAO for this
purpose, with an initial deposit equivalent to CFAF 250 million (US$0.8
million) to be advanced by IDA Imediately after credit effectiveness.
This amount will serve to finance the operating expenditures of CARDER
Borgou, the Stabilization Fund, the internal audit and accounting
training unit, and research, eligible for reimbursement by IDA. To meet
the needs of its share of expenditures, the Government will also be
required to open a Project Account in a bank with an initial deposit of



. 31 -
CFAF 75 million (US$254,000). Requirements for the Government
counterpart funds will be estimated half-yearly and will form the basis
upon which the Project Account will be maintained. This account will be
replenished at least quarterly on the basis of supporting documentation
for expenditures incurred and cash need forecasts made by project
management in order to have sufficient funds to meet expenditures for
the next six months. Establishment of the Project Account and the
Government's deposit of its contribution are conditions for credit
effectiveness (para 4.02(h)).
4. Procurement
3.38      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
The part proposed for IDA financing is shown in parentheses.
IDA-financed woiks and goods contracts and bidding packages estimated to
cost over US$100,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review of
procurement documentation. Any preference given to domestic
manufacturers will be in accordance with IDA guidelines. The part of
the cotton sub-sector rehabilitation program to be supported by IDA will
be through payment for agricultural inputs and factory spares which will
be procured according to International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures.



- 32 -
Prns  _TSMtANOEM
(US millilon)
Procurement Method
Local and
Internotion l                                   Total
Project Element                  C.e       Shooone       ICB       Other   N/A           Cost
Sul Iding and Construction                                1.8        0.6                  1.9
(1.1)                           (1.1)
Warehoue                                                            8 0                   0.9
Fewedr Roads !                                                      4.9                   4.9
B3ttoland D e  lopmnSt                                              0.9                   0.9
Enviromental Protectlon                                             0.6                   O.5
Wells PI                                                             0.4                  0.4
Incremental Inpute             8.0                                                        8.9
Oxens Traction Equlpnmnt and
Fooderop Marketing                                8.6                                     8.6
Vehicules and Equipment kI                        1.6                1.4                  S.1
(1.4)                                   (1.4)
Technical Assistance, Studies
and Felloeships k/ e                                                11.2                 11.2
(6.2)                (6.2)
Operating Costa
- Vehiculee                                     0.6               1.2                   1.9
(9.6)             (0.7)                 (1.2)
- Other                                                           2.6    2.8            6.0
1.6                 (1.6)
Inputs and Spare Parts k   /  12.1                                 17.0                  29.0
(9.7)                                                     (9.7)
16.9               6.2     1.8      41.4    2.8           67.8
(9.7)             (1.0)   (1.1)      (6.5)               (21.9)
ai  Procurement  wi*ll be done according to procedures acceptable to SWAD
M    Goods and services for the componnt  financed by CCE (vahleules, technical assistance and
Input, and *pare prOts) will be carried out according to procedures acceptable to CCE
Employment of consultants and tochnical asistance staff f inanced by IDA (equlvalent to
about US$5.6 million) will be in accordance with IDA guidelines.
~/ IDA and IFAD-financed Inpute and spare parts will procured through ICR



- 33 -
5. Allocation and Disbursements of IDA Credit
3.39      The IDA credit will be disbursed over a period of four and a
half years, which takes into consideration both the standard
disbursement profile for Benin for specific investment loans and the
standard profile for West Africa Region Structural Adjustment Loans.
The Benin historical profile is slightly modified to take account of the
fact that the project period is three years (Annex 3-4). Disbursements
of the IDA credit will be fully documented except for expenditures
valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent which will be against
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). All IDA expenditures of less than
US$20,000 will be financed from the Special Account. The same limit
applies to requests for direct payments.
Amount of         2 of Estimated
Credit Allocation      Cost to be
Category       Item*                     ('000)             financed
US$       SDR
1.        Building & Construction      950        720          802
2.        Equipment
(a)  CARDER Borgou         1,150       880           902
(b)  RCF                      40        30           902
(c)  Central Services         50        40           902
(d)  Stabilization Fund       60        50           90?
3.        Operating Costs
(a)  CARDER Borgou        2,200      1,670           70Z
(b)  RCF                     150       120           702
(c)  Central Services        150       120           702
(d)  Stabilization Fund      100        80           702
4.        Technical Assistance,
Studies & Training
(a)  CARDER Borgou        1,850      1,400          1002
(b)  RCF                     500       380          1002
(c)  Central Services        900       690          1002
Sector Studies
(d)  Stabilization Fund      800       610          1002
5.        Inputs & Factory Spares   9,600       7,270         1002
6.        Refunding of PPF           1,500      1,140       Amount Due
7.        Unallocated                1,000        700
TOTAL                     21,000    15,900
*    For precise indication of items financed by IDA see footnotes in
the Financing Plan (para 3.34).



- 34 -
6.   Financial Control. Audit and Reporting Reauirements
3.40      A PPF advance is being used to prepare systems and procedures
to improve financial, accounting and internal control for SONAPRA and
CARDER Borgou (paras 3.15 and 3.18). This will ensure appropriate
control over expenditures. Under the project, CARDER Borgou, the
research organizations (URP tna and RCF), SONAPRA (for the cotton
sub-sector) and the Stabilization Fund will be required to keep separate
accounts for the project, maintained in accordance with acceptable
accounting practices to reflect the operations of the project. They
will submit to IDA annual budgets and work programs, including joint
activities between the research units and CARDER Borgou, annual
financial statements, and quarterly reports reflecting accurately the
physical and financial performance of the project. The accounts of
SONAPRA, CARDER Borgou and the Stabilization Fund will be audited
annually by independent auditors, and the audit report will be submitted
to IDA six months after the close of the financial year. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations (para 4.01(c)). The auditors
will check the level of cross-indebtedness between SONAPRA and the
CARDERs, and the report will include a statement on the adequacy of the
accounting and internal control systems. The auditors will also be
required to include, as a separate paragraph in their report, an opinion
on the reliability of SOB procedures, the legitimacy of expenditures
using the IDA Special Account, and the utilization of goods and services
financed under the project.
E.   Proiect Implementation
3.41      CARDER Borgou will continue as the lead agency for project
implementation.  It will be responsible for the field level activities
relevant to its mandate. It will also coordinate implementation of the
other project components, including applied research, to be executed by
URP Ina and RCF (para 3.49), feeder road cvnLvuction and maintenance to
be done through SRDR (para 3.15) and credit for animal traction to be
channelled through CRCAM (para 3.08). The component to improve the
financial viability of the cotton sub-sector, notably technical
assistance for management of, and stabilization support for, the cotton
sub-sector will be implemented through the Stabilization Fund and
SONAPRA. The Management Committee of the Stabilization Fund will be
responsible for overall supervision of the implementation of the cotton
sub-sector rehabilitation program. The sector review study will be
coordinated by the Planning Unit (DEP) of MDRAC, and implementation of
accounting training and internal audit units will be supervised by
MDRAC. All activities related to the implementation of the cotton
sub-sector rehabilitation program will be coordinated by MDRAC.
3.42      In October 1985, a ministerial Decree (No. 10-18) changed the
structure of all the CARDERs in part to reflect the new activities
devolved to the CARDERs over the past four years and also to
decentralize MDRAC activities. The Government has realized that the
resources made available to the CARDERs may not enable them to



- 35 -
satisfactorily implement all the activities assigned to them. It has
therefore asked for a review of the CARDER mandate and organization in
relation to their financial capability as well as funding, through the
FAO executed study (para 3.17). With the transfer of the ginning
factories from CARDER management to SUNAPRA, however, CARDER Borgou has
been relieved of a major activity which took up 701 of its staff time
and, in its present form, should be able to implement the project
satisfactorily if the recently appointed staff is properly trained (para
2.04). Pending the results of the FAO and sector studies to analyze
CARDER activities and how they will be financed, the present
organizational structure will be maintained. An organizational chart
for CARDER Borgou is included in Annex 3-5.
3.43      The reorganization study of the administrative and financial
departments of CARDER Borgou and SONAPRA has been completed (para 3.16)
but does not propose modifications in the present structure of the
administrative and financial departments. Both SONAPRA and CARDER
Borgou have accepted the recommendations of the reorganization study and
have started implementing the agreed new procedures for accounting and
internal controls. In addition, there will be an internal audit unit 4.n
the CARDER Borgou, SONAPRA, and the CARDERs Atacora, Zou and Mono, as
part of the central internal audit system (para 3.21). Since frequent
management changes in the CARDERs and SONAPRA have posed a problem in
the recent past, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the posts
of General Manager in CARDER Borgou, SONAPRA, and the Stabilization Fund
will always be filled by persons with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA (para 4.01(d)).
1.   Extension and Training
3.44      The project will further improve the organization of the
extension service along the lines of expanded coverage of farm families
and continuous training of staff and farmers, a system started under the
First Borgou Project. There will be a ratio of one agricultural
extension agent (AVA) to about 200 to 250 farm families, organized into
groups of 25 to 30 families. The AVAs will in turn be responsible to
sub-sector agents who, through frequent field visits, will monitor the
effectiveness of the AVAs' activities. Fortnightly training sessions
will be instituted using technicians from headquarters and researchers
from URP Ina and the RCF unit. Two teams consisting of the above
technicians and coordinated by the project training officer are to be
constituted to plan and organize the technical training for the AVAs and
their next-in-line supervisors. One team will be responsible for the
North and the other for the South. There is an average of two women
extension agents in each of the 14 sectors who in effect are subject
matter specialists in women activities. These will be maintained and
their work program expanded to include training of volunteer village
women as ucontactO people. They are also about five women among the 200
agricultural extension agents. The senior Trainer/Resource Development
Specialist will be responsible for the overall organization of training
and develop2ent of technical themes.



- 36 -
2.   Research
3.45      Applied research will utilize the existing research services
URP Ina for foodcrops and farming systems research and RCF for cotton
research. Liaisou between research and extension will be the
responsibility of the Production Department of the CARDER through its
Research and Development Division. However, at the beginning of each
year, CARDER Borgou, URP Ina and RCF will convene a research conference
to review the results of the previous year and the program for the
coming year. Following the annual conference, a joint research protocol
will be established and signed by the CARDER and the Research Units,
outlining the work program for the year. The accepted joint work
program will be included in the annual work programs to be submitted to
IDA by the Research Units and CARDER Borgou (para 3.40).
3.   Input Supply and Seasonal Credit
3.46      SONAPRA will continue to procure and supply fertilizers and
insecticides to all the CARDERs in Benin, following the system already
in place whereby SONAPRA receives orders from all CARDERs by August/
September each year and procures both fertilizers and insecticides
according to international competitive bidding procedures. These inputs
will be delivered to the CARDERs which in turn will distribute them to
the farmers under annual service contracts to be signed with SONAPRA.
Short-term credit will attract an interest rate of 161, two percentage
points above the rate at which SONAPRA obtains this credit from the
local banking system. Under the ongoing Zou and Borgou Projects, the
CARDERs must seek short-term credits from CNCA, the agricultural credit
bank, to prefinance the contribution of farmers. In practice this
system has not worked because of CNCA's considerable financial
difficulties. Short-term credit therefore will continue to be passed
through SONAPRA, which will borrow from the local banking system and
will be reimbursed through the CARDERs when farmers reimburse the credit
during cotton marketing.
3.47      Under the Zou Project, the Government agreed to eliminate all
input subsidies by the 1989/90 season. The 1986/87 rate of subsidy was
30? to be reduced at the rate of at least 10? per year. Given the
financial problems of the cotton sub-sector, the Government has agreed
to eliminate the subsidy much earlier. The subsidy rate has therefore
been reduced from 302 to 15? for the 1987188 insecticides and eliminated
for fertilizer (para 3.25). The Government has also agreed to eliminate
insecticide subsidy from 1988/89 and this was confirmed at negotiations.
Complete elimination of subsidies is a condition of disbursement of the
second tranche of the IDA funds supporting the cotton program (para
4.03(f)). To encourage cash sales and reduce financial charges, the
Government will establish two prices for inputs, one for cash sales and
the other for credit sales. The credit price will cover interest and
administration charges.



- 37 -
4.   Medium-Term Credit
3.48      The existing system for providing medium-term credit is
through the CARDER for traction equipment and through CRCAM's own funds
for oxen. Since CNCA, the parent agricultural credit company, no longer
has the financial means to provide the needed capital for incremental
oxen and traction equipment, the project will provide funds to CRCAM
(Borgou) for incremental medium-term credit requirements (para 3.08).
IFAD will finance this component under its own conditions. The 23 staff
at the CRCAM office in Parakou should be able to handle the volume of
work, since the CRCAM traditionally usas CARDER cooperative staff to
help establish and evaluate credit needs. All medium-term credit to
farmers will require a down payment of 20Z, carry an interest rate of at
least llX and be repayable over the following four years in four equal
instalments. The financial advisor, to be recruited under the project
for CARDER Borgou, will review CRCAM credit accounts about twice a year
to ensure proper accounting and follow-up of individual credit accounts.
Thus far, accounts have been kept satisfactorily at the CRCAM.
P.   Production, Markets, Prices and Farm Incomes
1.   Technical Themes
3.49      Farmers cultivate a mixture of crops according to the ecology,
their needs for on-farm consumption and sale, and access to various
inputs. A primary division in the cropping picture is between farms
"with' and "without* cotton. A large number of farmers however, about
70Z, do cultivate cotton. The ten farm model types identified for the
three main ecological zones are described in Project Working Paper No.
3. Specific crop recommendations are discussed below and a summary of
technical recommendations per level of intensification is given in
Annex 3-6.
3.50      Cotton.  The technical recommendations for this crop are
already well established for the project area, based on the
recommendations of the RCF unit and on the experience gained over the
past few years. Future emphasis will be placed on reducing unit
production costs to maintain competitiviness on world markets through
improved crop husbandry; early seeding, thinning, weeding two to three
times; and correct plant density.
3.51      Maize.  The project will improve the production techniques of
the crop through the promotion of good seed bed preparation (by hand or
animal traction), timely seeding in line, use of improved and
disinfected seed (TZB), and progressive application of fertilizer as far
as justified by market conditions.
3.52      Groundnuts.  The project will emphasize the selection and
maintenance of good quality seed. The crop is grown in the North and
extreme North with the improved varieties, 69-101 and RMP.91. These



- 38 -
two, however, have a long cycle and are sensitive to rust. Generally,
the variety 69-101 performs better than any other variety available,
especially when proper crop husbandry is applied. Research is
continuing on groundnuts, but meanwhile the project will use the
available improved variety. The use of TSP is recommended for farmers
at the highest intensification level. No fertilizer will be used by
farmers at the medium and low levels of intensification.
3.53      Local Sorghum. Maize and Niebe (CowDeas).  As for the improved
crop varieties, the main emphasis will be on improving crop husbandry.
Farmers will be encouraged to plant their local maize and sorghum after
cotton to benefit from the secondary effects of cotton fertilizer. The
project will provide improved seed varieties for niebe through the seed
farm. The most advanced farmers will be encouraged to use an additional
50 kglha of Urea on cereals.
3.54      Yields.  Based on the experience of the First Borgou Project
and research results, the above recommended technical themes will bring
an increase in yields of the cultivated crops. The table below
summarizes the yield projections; Annex 3.7 shows when the various
levels of intensification could be reached by various farmers; further
details are given in Working Paper No. 1.4.
Yield Proiections
(kglha)
Intensification Level a/      0             I               II
Cotton
manual                     750-1,150    900-1,300       1,050-1,450
Animal Traction            900-1,250  1,100-1,400       1,200-1,600
I)proved Maize
Manual                         1,300        1,600             1,900
Animal Traction                1,400        1,800             2,200
Groundnuts
Manual                       700-800      800-850         850-1,200
Animal Traction              700-800      850-900       1,150-1,250
Sorihum
Manual                       850-900      900-1,000       950-1,150
Animal Traction              900-950      900-1,050    1,000-1,250
a/   The themes applied per intensification level are described in
Annex 3-6. Yield levels depend on sones.



- 39 -
2.   Environmental Impact
3.55      With proper care taken to avoid too short fallow periods or
the introduction of animal traction on inadequate soils, the project
would have no adverse effect on the environment. Land clearing and
destumping will be carried out with monkey winches to facilitate animal
traction for seeding and weeding. This is expected to lead to a better
system of crop rotation and to minimize shifting cultivation so as to
reduce the practice of slashing and burning new areas each year and help
preserve the woodlands. Two main types of insecticides, binary and
simple, are presently used in the country for treating cotton against
insects and diseases. The binary insecticides have as active
ingredients either cypemethrine and profenophos, or alphametrine and
profenophos, or deltamethrine and triazophos. The simple insecticides
are composed of either alphametrine, deltametrine or cypemetrine. The
two types are both pyrethrolds with low mammalian toxicity and their use
conforms with Bank Guidelines on the use of pesticides. The
insecticides are applied with ULV sprayers (reducing the need for
excessive handling and mixing), and extension advice includes training
in the correct use and handling of pesticides. This practice will
continue under the project, and an assurance to this effect was obtained
at negotiations (para 4.01(e)). The research program of the RCF unit
includes integrated pest management to improve pest control measures; a
FAC-financed expert on pest control will work with RCF to improve pest
management.
3.! Production
3.56      In estimating incremental production, it has been assumed that
without the project and especially without the program to restructure
and stabilize the cotton sub-sector, the Borgou Province cannot maintain
its production at present levels because of disruptions in extension
services, input supply and also possible price reduction (para 3.57).
The base case with-project situation, under which the technical themes
described in Annex 3-6 are applied, assumes therefore that the project
finances the cotton sub-sector rehabilitation program (para 3.23).
Incremental production for the base case is thus calculated with respect
to a without-project situation where yields are likely to fall. The
incremental production under the with-project scenario is summarized
below. Details on the assumptions used to estimate production are given
in Annex 3-7.
Cumulative Incremental Production
(With Cotton Sector Program)
(Tons)
PYl      PY2       PY3       PY4 +
Cotton (grain)  19,074   27,440    38,932    50,914
Maize            4,915   10,489    14,766    14,766
Groundnuts       1,078    2,965      4,324     4,324
Sorghum          1,487    3,380      4,884     4,884
Niebe              758    1,580      2,243     2,243



- 40 -
3.57      Without the project, the extension services in the Borgou
Province and input supply in the whole country will be disrupted. Even
now, the banking system in Benin is unwilling to extend new credit for
the 1988189 input acquisition unless there is a guarantee that external
donors will intervene to finance the shortfalls of the 1986/87 season.
In addition, in a without-project situation, it is highly unlikely that
the entire cotton reform program will be implemented, and hence deficits
may persist in the cotton sub-sector even when higher world market
prices for cotton materialize. Without project, therefore, it has been
assumed that any combination of the above factors will lead to extensive
rather than intensive production practices. Incremental production for
cotton (para 3.56) has therefore been calculated with respect to a
situation where area without-project stays at the PYO level, but yields
fall by about 202 from PYO level as early as PYI. The PYO cotton area
and yield figures are the averages in Borgou for the past three years.
As a sensitivity test (para 3.69) an alternative scenario where
production stays at PYO level without project has been analyzed. This
scenario assumes that without the cotton sub-sector rehabilitation
program, production practices and yields in Borgou will not be affected.
4.  Demand. Markets and Prices
3.58      Cotton Lint.  Benin exports practically all the cotton lint
produced; local sales account for less than 100 tons of lint annually.
Benin's exports increased rapidly from an exceptional low of 4,200 tons
in the drought year 1980/81 to about 46,000 tons for 1986/87. Marketing
is done by SONAPRA, selling to wholesalers and intermediaries who in
turn sell on the world market. The quality of Beninese cotton has not
been uniform due in part to poor handling and processing by the CARDERs,
poor grading by SONAPRA, and also because if the crop variety used. A
new cotton variety was introduced in the 1986187 season and is expected
to cover the entire country by 1989. This variety has a better ginning
yield and produces better quality lint.
3.59      Prices.  SONAPRA normally does not have information on
prevailing market prices, except for those monitored from weekly
magazines, and selling prices are based partly on "outdated"
information. Benin has exported at a discount of between 6 to 20Z
between 1982 and 1986 as compared to cotton prices monitored by the Bank
(e.g., 'Al index cotton middling 1-3/32 inch).   The discount reflects
both the lower quality of Beninese cotton and inefficient marketing by
SONAPRA. In an effort to improve cotton selling and grading procedures,
IDA has financed a cotton marketing study under the Zou Province Rural
Development Project. This study has just been completed and proposes
that the Government employ two or three sales agents, paid on
covmission, for cotton export marketing. This recommendation has been
accepted by the Government and will be implemented from the 1987/88
season onward (para 3.25). Considering the small share of lenin in the
world market for cotton, there are no quantitative limits for the
country's cotton exports. The constraint is rather at the price level.
World market prices for cotton lint declined in 1986 to their lowest
level in more than a decade, but prices have partly recovered and are
expected to maintain a reasonable trend into the 1990s. Still, producer



- 41 -
prices have had to be reduced from the 1987/88 season as part of the
overall program of cotton sub-sector rehabilitation. If the CPA Franc
were to further appreciate against the dollar or if the world market
price were to fall significantly, producer prices may have to be reduced
further in the future.
3.60      Markets for Other Crops.  There are no imuediate implementable
export production alternatives to cotton. In the past 10 to 15 years,
the domestic foodcrop demand, growing at about the same rate as
population since there has been no notable increase per capita income,
has been accompanied by considerable unofficial exports to Nigeria and
Niger. Unofficial exports take place despite official interdiction, and
their precise volume is difficult to determine. A recent study financed
by IDA under the Zou Rural Development Project shows Benin's potential
in exports, especially to the Sahelian countries in the Franc zone
(about 20,000 tons per year). Foodcrop marketing is handled by the
private sector through a complex network of intermediaries and
wholesalers. Official marketing of foodcrops by the Cereals Marketing
Office affects relatively small quantities. The CARDERs have, however,
often engaged in foodcrop marketing for their own account. The main
problem of the marketing network, both private and official, has been
the shortage of financial resources, storage facilities and market
information.
3.61      Financial and Economic Prices of Foodcrovs.  Food crop prices
are determined on the free market. Prices for maize, the most traded
foodcrop, tripled between 1979 and 1983 and foodcrop prices increased at
a fastet rate than the retail price index. Since 1984, however, prices
have been more stable and actually declined in 1985186 and 1986/87,
owing in part to a good harvest combined with the closure of the
Nigerian border. The project impact on farm incomes has been estimated
on the basis of 1985/86 producer prices in the Borgou area. For the
economic analysis, prices of maize, sorghum and groundnuts were based on
the World Bank IEC price projections for these crops.
5. Impact on Farm Incomes
3.62      Three farm models have been prepared for the North and three
for the South to illustrate the project impact on farm incomes. The
estimates assume a price reduction from CFAF 110/kg in PYO to CFAF
100/kg from PY1 for cotton, and a price increase for inputs of about 112
for fertilizer and 362 for insecticides from PFY. The foodcrop prices
used reflect the low levels attained for the post-harvest 1985/86 period
rather than normal average levels. Details on the farm models and
project impact on farm incomes are given in Working Papers Nos. 3 and 4.
The impact on farm incomes per farm type is summarized in the table
below.



- 42
FARM RERNS
Manual Cultivation   Manuel Cultivation   Anlmal Traction
With Cotton      Without Cotton       Wlth Cotton
PY0   PY4+      pyG       PY4+        pyn    PY4+
(a)  (b)
Area (ha)         4.12   4.6      2.44   2.6   8.18     5.56    6.64
Gross Output
(CFAF'666)     471.20 590.9    829. 865.5 452.6   690.5   9065.5
Home Consumption
(CFAF'666)      199.6  199.6    224.5  224.0 224.0   263.8  200.1
Inputs (CfAF'666)  56.1  107.2    7.1  22.5  43.1   186.6  286.4
Net Cash Inco"-
(CFAF'636)      216.6  284.1     9.88  189.0 180.6   M8.1   470.6
Net Ineo per
Man-day (CFAF)   487.0  471.0    281.6  801.0 854.6   69030   627.0
Average for the North and the South.
(a) Farm.r producing only foodcrop. by PY4.
(b) Famers not producing cotton In PY0 but Introducing It from PY2 onward.
3.63      Because of the combination of output price decrease and input
price increase net farm cash incomes per man-day will go down for almost
all the farm types during the first project year (except for manual
cultivation without cotton). Farmer incomes per man-day however do rise
above the PYO level by the end of the project. The farm income
situation would be worse in a without-project situation because net farm
incomes would fall to about two-thirds of current levels even in a low
input/low output production scenario. It is expected that if cotton
prices fall drastically, cotton production will go down, and surplus
cotton labor will shift to other crops.
G.   Proiect Justification and Risks
1.   Benefits
3.64      Project benefits will be derived directly from productivity
improvements for all crops and, furthermore, from avoiding a
productivity decrease for cotton. Incremental production for cotton
will reach about 50,900 tons in PY4, based on the assumption of a
decrease in cotton production 202 below present levels without the
project. In addition to cotton, incremental production will reach
14,800 tons for maize, 4,880 tons for sorghum, 4,300 tons for
groundnuts, and 2,200 tons for niebe by the fourth year of the project.



- 43 -
These incremental production levels for crops other than cotton are
lower than those achieved under the First Borgou Project (Annex 2-2).
However, there is a market constraint for foodcrops (para 3.60), except
in poor production years in Benin and neighboring countries, especially
the Sahel. The sensitivity of the project to lower foodcrop production
levels is therefore tested (para 3.68).
3.65      Other Benefits.  A major benefit of the project is the support
it will give to a key productive sector of Benin's economy in a period
of low export prices. This will avert the collapse of the cotton
sub-sector that would affect a large number of people. It will also
have severe macro-economic implications as no alternative crops can
supply the significant export revenues derived from cotton. The cost of
not supporting a secLor that guarantees cash income for more than a
quarter of the country's population will also be very high.
Purthermore, the project will help restore and improve the financial
viability of institutions involved in rural development through cost
reduction, improved financial management, and internal control
procedures. The research component of the project could also have a
significant impact in developing alternative crops to cotton and in
testing better yielding and performing varieties for groundnuts, maize
and niebe, as well as for such new crops such as soja.
2.   Economic Analysis
3.66      The economic analysis takes into account the effects of
possible disruptions in agricultural input supply in the country and in
extension services in the Borgou Province in a without-project scenario.
This is expected to affect cotton yields. The base case scenario
includes project financial support to cotton rehabilitation. An
alternative case scenario excludes financial support to the cotton
program but assumes financing of field level activities and no adverse
effect on present production and yield levels in the Borgou Province
from a lack of support to the cotton program. A third scenario assumes
that, due to limited market opportunities, no foodcrop production
increase occurs as a result of the project.
Without-Proiect Situation (Base Case)
3.67      Because of a combination of the following factors (i)
disruption in national input supply and distribution; (ii) disruption in
extension services in the Borgou Province; and (iii) possible reductions
in producer prices to meet persistent deficits if the cotton sub-sector
program were not implemented in its entirety, the without-project
situation assumes that even though the cotton area will remain constant
at PYO levels, yields will fall by about 20? (para 3.57). Production of
crops other than cotton is assumed to remain at PYO levels without the
project.



- 44 -
With-Proiect Situation
(a)  Costst (i) All incremental field level costs, including
technical assistance, consultants, research and road
construction and maintenance, have been included in the ERR
calculation; (ii) the financial restructuring package for
CARDER Borgou (estimated at CFAF 2,711 million) has been
included as an economic cost; (iii) the studies component has
not been included in the ERR calculation; and (iv) since
Borgou cotton production is about 652 of national production,
65X of the net of tax stabilization support and financial
restructuring cost as well as all other SONAPRA costs have not
been included as project costs. Incremental farm labor costs
are estimated at CFAF 400 per man-day. An exchange rate of
CFAF 295 - US$1 was used.
(b)  Prices:  Farmgate prices for cotton, maize, sorghum,
groundnuts, and fertilizer are based on projected world market
prices for these products according to IBRD's commodity price
forecast (September 1987). The market prices observed for
niebe in the project area have been used.
(c)  Other Assumptionss  (i) Project life has been estimated at 20
years with no residual values; (ii) no additional road user
saving benefits have been attributed to the road construction
component even though its full cost has been included together
with some maintenance cost after the project period; and (iii)
no extra benefits have been attributed to the effect the
cotton restructuring program will have in provinces other than
Borgou.
3.   Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
3.68      The ERR for the base case is estimated at 25.52.  In a variant
of the base case where there is no external financing of either the
financial restructuring or support for price stabilization included in
the project, the ERR is estimated at 20X. If incremental foodcrop
production were not to materialize, benefits would decrease by 20X and
the ERR would drop to about 10.72. Details on the ERR calculation are
given in Annex 3-8. Sensitivity tests have been carried out on the base
case ERR; the main results are presented in the table below and in
Annex 3-9.



- 45 -
Economic Rates of Return
Assumption                                X
Base Case                                     25.5
Without External Financing of
Cotton Program (Alternate case)              20.0
Benefits down 202                             10.7
Total Costs up 202                            13.3
Rural Development Component cost up 20?       14.3
Benefits down 20? Costs up 20S                 0.0
Cotton Prices down 252                        11.0
Benefits lagged 1 year                        15.1
Benefits lagged 2 years                        9.8
Including studies costs                       23.8
Switching Values at 10? Onportunity Cost
of Capital as ? of Appraisal Value
Benefits                       -20.9
Rural Development Costs         28.9
Cotton Prices                  -26.8
Total Costs                     26.4
3.69      Under the vithout financial restructuring, scenario  (rate of
return of 20?), without-project production is assumed to remain constant
at the PYO level and assumes also that in the with-project situation but
without external financing of the cotton program the Government will
somehow finance the deficits in the cotton sub-sector without reducing
producer prices to a level affecting current cotton production levels in
the Borgou Province. While it is theorically possible to attain
with-project production levels in this alternative scenario, the present
financial situation of Benin makes it extremely unlikely that without
the project the deficit could be financed without recourse to a producer
price drop either in the iumediate or near future.  Thus, in this
scenario very high risks exist that the cotton program would not be
implemented, leading to persistent deficits in the cotton sub-sector and
disruption in input supply.
4.   Proiect Risks
3.70      The main risks are associated with farmer reaction to the 1987
reduction in producer prices, or to further reductions if the Bank's
present cotton price projections prove to be too optimistic. The
various sensitivity analyses, however, show that possible combinations
exist in reductions in area, input use and yields that give a rate of
return above 10, especially if the producer price reduction is not
excessive. Besides, the farmer may not have much of a cash or foodcrop
alternative. A potential risk lies with international cotton prices not
recovering as rapidly as projected. Under the base case assumptions,
the project can withstand a 26Z reduction in projected cotton prices,



- 46 -
without any adjustments, and still give a rate of return of about 10X.
However, if international cotton prices were to be substantially below
World Bank estimates, several adjustments will be possible at the farm
level to reduce the impact of this risk. Because of the lower returns,
farmers could adopt more extensive cultivation practices, reducing input
use to the minimum with a consequent reduction in not only costs but
also in yields and total production unless the area under cultivation is
considerably increased. There would be a risk of soil deterioration due
to reduced fallow or extension into areas with inadequate soils.   There
are potential risks involving financial management and internal controls
whereby improvements in accounting and financial management may be slow
or the institutions fail to adjust to their modified functions. These
risks are however expected to be considerably reduced with the systems
and procedures being put in place before the project starts (para 3.16)
and the controls that the cotton Management Committee will exercise
over the sector (para 3.20).
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      The following assurances viere obtained at negotiations:
(a) the Government will discuss the results of the FAO study on
CARDER organization with IDA and implement the agreed
recommendations resulting from the study within one year from
the end of the study (para 3.V );
(b) a working agreement between SONAPRA and the Stabilization Fund
will be signed before September,30, 1988 (para 3.20);
(c) annual work programs and budgets for CARDER Borgou, SONAPRA,
the Stabilization Fund, and the Research Units (URP Ina and
RCF) will be submitted to IDA before December 31 of each year.
The work programs for CARDER Borgou and the Research units
will include joint activities between them.  The agencies will
also be expected to submit quarterly reports on their
activities. Annual accounts and financial statements for
SONAPRA, CARDER Borgou and the Stabilization Fund will be
audited by independent auditors (para 3.40);
(d) the positions of General Managers in CARDER Borgou, SONAPRA,
and the Stabilization Fund will always be filled by persons
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA (para
3.43);
(e) the practice of applying low-toxicity insecticides will
continue under the project (para 3.55).



- 47 -
4.02      The Conditions for Credit Effectiveness are as follows:
(a)  signature of the agreements between the Government and CFDT on
the one hand, and the Government and a firm selected after
consultation on the other hand for technical assistance to
SONAPRA (para 3.19);
(b) staffing of the secretariat for the Management Committee of -
the Stabilization Fund (para 3.20);
(c) structural modification of SONAPRA (para 3.24(b));
(d) signature of working agreements between SONAPRA and the
CARDERs outlining responsibilities of each, timing of key
actions, and payment terms of CARDER services to the cotton
sub-sector (para 3.24(c));
(e) signature of acceptable contracts between the Government and
selected sales agents for cotton export marketing (para
3.25(a));
(f) fulfillment of all conditions preceding the effectiveness of
the loans and credits of other external donors (para 3.34);
(g) signature of a financing agreement between the Government, the
Stabilization Fund and SONAPRA (para 3.35(a));
(h) establishment of the Project Account and the Government's
deposit of its contribution (para 3.37);
4.03      The following actions will be taken before disbursement of the
second tranche supporting the cotton sub-sector:
(a) completion of the reorganization of the accounting,
administrative and financial systems and procedures of CARDER
Borgou and SONAPRA, and reorganization of the accounting,
administrative and financial systems and procedures of CARDER
Atacora and CARDER Zou (para 3.16);
(b) completion of transfer of ownership of the cotton ginning
factories from the CARDERs to SONAPRA by December 1988
(para 3.24(a));
(c) modification of SONAPRA's statutes to reflect SONAPRA's
responsibilities for all cotton sub-sector activities
(para 3.24(b));



- 48 -
(d) updating of working agreements between SONAPRA and all the
CARDERs (para 3.24(c));
te) preparation of SONAPRA's detailed annual budget and financing
plan for 1988/89 for cotton sub-sector activities (para 3.27);
(f) completion of phasing out of subsidies on insecticides
(para 3.47).
4.04      With the above assurances and conditions the project is
suitable for a credit of SDR 15.9 million to the People's Republic of
Benin on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



Annex 2-1
- 49 -                      Page I of 6
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
POLICY STATEMENT
FOR A REHABILITATION PROGRAM IN THE COTTON SUB-SECTOR
(Translated from Original in French)
Introduction
1.        The People's Republic of Benin intends to undertake an
agricultural sector adjustment pregram for which the cotton sub-sector
adjustment program is the first phase. The agricultural sector program
will form an integral part of adjustment actions envisaged in the
generalized program of macro-economic reforms currently under discussion
between the authorities and the Bank and IMF. The main objectives of
the agricultural sector adjustment program will be to reinforce
agriculture's potential for contributing to growth through:
(a) an agriculture-led growth strategy based on comparative
advantage;
(b) a redefinition of the role of the public sector in the
management of the rural sector to limit it to the provision of
improved essential services and transfer of greater
responsibility for investments to the private sector and
farmer groups;
Ic) improvement in the efficiency and management of parapublic
rural development institutions, including a review of their
mandates, reducing staff where necessary and upgrading their
quality and training; and
(d) improved land-use planning, including introduction of
alternative crops, better animal husbandry, and better
protection and management of forestry resources.
2.        The Government's principal support for agriculture over the
last 10 years has come through integrated rural development projects
executed by Provincial Rural Development Agencies, CARDERs. While these
projects have shown signs of typical insulated area-development
projects, major efforts undertaken through them in four of the six
provinces (Atlantique, Atacora, Borgou, and Zou and recently in a fifth
Province, Oueme), have enabled the Government to provide services for
over 85 of the rural population, covering about 95X of the country's
land area. The activities and approaches adopted have followed similar
norms, with variations to account for the economic, social and
ecological differences in concerned zones. Various multilateral and
bilateral donors, including IDA, have been close partners with Benin in
supporting these projects. This approach has had dramatic results, with
cotton production growing eightfold between 1981 and 1986, and an



Annex 2-1
-~ 50 ~Page 2 of 6
increase of about 502 in foodcrop production. Farms have begun to show
evidence of technological advance with increased adoption of animal
traction methods, improved seeds, and other modern inputs--especially
in the Borgou Province.
3.        The approach is, however, showing signs of stresss it is
becoming more expensive, and coordination at the national level is weak.
It is also slow in adjusting to changing internal and external
conditions because of the increasing size of bureaucracy in the
institutions in charge of implementing the Government program.
Possibilities for future rapid development of the sector under this
approach are diminishing due to the following constraints: low world
market prices for Benin's principal export crop--cotton; expansion of
foodcrop markets slower than production potential; land-extensive
development patterns reaching their limit; and parapublic institutions
in the rural sector growing considerably in size while lacking
management and funding adequate for successful program execution.
4.        To ensure that the rural sector realize its potential in
contributing to growth, the Government has decided to reorient its rural
development strategy, starting with a reorganization of the cotton
sub-sector and a policy-based sectorwide project to be prepared as part
of the proposed project.
The Cotton Sub-Sector Program
5.        Background.  The rural development projects implemented by the
Government with assistance from various donors since 1981, have led to a
spectacular increase in cotton production from about 14,400 tons of seed
cotton in 1981182 to 134,800 tons in 1986/87. This rapid increase led
to production exceeding ginning capacity. Financing for the expansion
of the ginning capacity was granted through a CCCE loan in August 1985
and an IDA supplementary credit to the first Borgou Project
(Cr. 1127-BEN) in April 1986. During the period 1981/82, the Government
took measures to Improve extension services to farmers, reduce input
subsidies, increase cotton producer prices, and ensure prompt
availability of inputs. Subsidies on fertilizer are now completely
removed; subsidies on insecticides are limited to 152 for the 1987/88
season and will be completely removed from the 1988/89 season.
6.       'While farmers were responding to these Government measures,
cotton prices on the international market plunged from an average FOB
export price for Beninese cotton of CIA? 663/kg in 1983/84 to an average
price of CFAP 301/kg for 1985/86. Due to its obligation to purchase
cotton at the official producer price, the Government used funds built
up for stabilization from 1982/83 to 1984/85 to cover deficits for
1985/86. The remaining part of the stabilization funds was used to
finance the working capital of the rapidly expanding sub-sector (over
502 annual rate of growth). Thus, despite a 10? reduction in producer
prices and a substantial reduction in input subsidies for 1987/88,
stabilization funds are inadequate to support all activities in the
cotton sub-sector for 1986/87. Farmers have, therefore, not been fully
paid for cotton purchased in 1986187, and part of the seasonal credit
obtained from local banks remains outstanding. The cotton crisis is a



Annex 2-1
- 51 -                            Page 3 of 6
threat to the Beninese economy as a vhole because the Government is in a
difficult financial situation due to a drop in commodity and petroleum
prices and the decline of the dollar.
The Reform Program
7.        The Government is firmly committed to preparing and
implementing, with donor assistance, a comprehensive action program to
face the cotton crisis and restore the financial and economic viability
of the cotton sub-sector. The program's objective is to implement a
series of urgent measures aimed principally at streamlining activities
of institutions in the sub-sector; reducing intermediate costs for
cotton collection, processing and marketing; and improving financial
management and control in all agencies involved in the sub-sector.
8.        The main reforms on which the Government has reached broad
agreement with IDA, CCCE and IFAD concerns
(a)  transferring the ginning factories from under CARDERs
management to SONAPRA, up to now the agency responsible for
input procurement and agricultural export marketing;
(b) modifying the structure of SONAPRA to include an industrial
department, a bureau of transport (for seed cotton and input
transport), and taking away the management of the
stabilization funds from SONAPRA;
c) creating a wlight' Stabilization Fund with an independent
Management Committee;
(d) making SONAPRA manage all financial transactions in the cotton
sub-sector; in this light, the role of the CARDERs will be to
provide contractual services to SONAPRA for seed cotton
purchase and input distribution for which they will be paid
based on agreed actual unit costs;
(e) providing management,technical assistance by one or two
external agencies (CFDT) to SONAPRA for transport, cotton
processing, factory management and cotton grading, and in the
area of financial management;
(f) using two or three sales agents paid on commission for cotton
export marketing, instead of a marketing system using numerous
intermediate traders, which now exist;
(g) financial restructuring needed in the CARDERs and SONAPRA so
that these entities can begin operating without accumulated
debts; and
(h) replacing the current system of payment by "bareme0 with a
system of controlled expenditures based on authentic budgetary
estimates prepared using operating results of the preceding
season and forecasts for the coming year.



Annex 2-1
Page 4 of 6
Institutional Reform
9.        The institutional reform has two main objectives:
(a) to improve the cotton sub-sector's productivity in order to
provide better control costs and improve quality by regrouping
processing, marketing and financial activities under one
agency, SONAPRA (instead of four agencies as at present); and
(b) to reconfirm the basic role initially assigned to the CARDERs
as public service entities--rather than industrial or
commercial enterprises--providing services to the rural
population.
10.       Factory Transfer.  As part of the reorganization of cotton
activities, the Government has decided to transfer the management of the
cotton ginning factories, now under three CARDERs, to SONAPRA. Revised
statutes of SONAPRA reflecting its responsibilities for all cotton
sub-sector activities from primary marketing to export will be approved
to become effective before the end of December 1988.
11.       SONAPRA's responsibility for managing the factories started on
October 28, 1987, at the beginning of the 1987/88 cotton marketing and
ginning season. Since the liquidation process by which the factories
were transferred to the CARDERs from the National Agricultural Company
(SONAGRI) in 1982 is not completed, the Government proposes to effect
the transfer of factory management as a first phase, to be followed by a
complete transfer of ownership once the legal issues are resolved. This
is expected to be done by the end of December 1988.
12.       Cotton Stabilization Fund.  To help SONAPRA fulfill its role,
the Government has decided to relieve it from managing the stabilization
funds. An independent Cotton Stabilization Fund administered by a
Management Committee and assisted by a permanent secretariat has been
created by Decree. The Committee, to be chaired by the Minister of
Rural Development and Cooperative Action (MDRAC), will be responsible
for supervising all activities in the cotton sub-sector, including the
supervision of the implementation of the cotton program, and for
deciding on the use of the resources in the Stabilization Fund. In
addition to MDRAC, the Committee includes the general manager of
SONAPRA, a representative of the CARDERs, and high level representatives
from the Ministries of Commerce, Finance, Planning, and Inspection of
Public Enterprises. The permanent secretariat of the Stabilization
Fund, headed by a director, will be staffed with an externally recruited
financial controller, two high level Beninese agro-economists and
economists each, and a high level Beninese chief accountant. It will be
supported by short-term missions from consultants with experience in the
cotton sub-sector. The secretariat will be responsible for the daily
management of the Stabilization Fund and for analyzing and providing
up-to-date information on the cotton account and Stabilization Fund to
the Management Committee. It will prepare quarterly reports for the
Management Committee and donors on program implementation.



Annex 2-1
- 53               ~               Page 5 of 6
13.       All external and governa4ent contributions for the cotton
program will be channelled through the Stabilization Fund.  A special
account will be opened in BCEAO for this purpose. All payments that may
be received from STABEX for cotton will also go the Stabilization Fund
during the program adjustment period. Funds generated by the sale of
non-incremental inputs (to be financed by IDA), funds coming directly
from CCCE (either direct payment of suppliers or direct deposit in the
special account at BCEAO), and funds earmarked for stabilization support
during the 1986/87 season are estimated at about CFAF 2.6 billion.
These funds will be on-lent by the Government to the Stabilization Fund
for a period of 15 years, including a five-year grace period, at an
interest rate of 42 to minimLze financial charges on the cotton
sub-sector during the adjustment period. The Stabilization Fund will
advance to SONAPRA the part of the funds so received from IDA for
purchasing inputs.
14.       Financial Restructuring.  A study of cross-indebtedness
between the CARDER8 and SONAPRA in June 1986, and the financial and
organizational study of the cotton sub-sector of March 1987, have both
shown the need to improve the working capital position of all the rural
development agencies. In the reorganization proposals where the
Government has made SONAPRA responsible for all industrial, commercial
and financial activities and the CARDERs concentrate on rural
development activities, it is essential to reestablish the financial
equilibrium of all agencies involved. Therefore, the Government, with
donor assistance, will repay about CPAP 5.5 billion that the CARDERs owe
SONAPRA, which in turn will repay an outstanding amount of
CFAP 3.8 billion owed the Stabilization Fund. All sums to be paid under
the financial restructuring program, estimated at about ClAP 6 billion,
will be considered as grants.
15.       Efforts through ongoing rural development projects to improve
financial management and control in SONAPRA and the various CARDERs will
continue. Systems to reorganize administrative, financial and
accounting procedures are being prepared under an IDA PPF advance. The
implementation of systems for CARDER Borgou and SONAPRA will start as
soon as the proposed systems are agreed upon. For these two entities,
implementation of several recommendations made in the reorganization
study has already started. For the CARDERs Atacora and Zou, similar
systems will be prepared and their implementation should start before
October 1. 1988.
16.       Role of CARDERs in MarketinR and InDut Suvoly.  The Government
has decided that beginning with.the 1987188 season SONAPRA will manage
all financial transactions in the cotton sub-sector; the CARDERs will
only provide contractual services to SONAPRA for seed cotton purchase
and input distribution, under working agreements signed by both parties
and updated annually.
17.       Cotton Ginning and Marketin .  To improve management in the
cotton industry, the Government has decided to recruit specialists from
the French Company for Textile Development, CPDT, to provide technical
assistance in factory management, and cotton processing and ginning. A
contract will be signed with CFDT before December 15, 1987. For
I



- 54 -                   ~~~~~Annex 2-1
Page 6 of 6
SONAPRA's financial management, the Government has decided to recruit
two specialists (a financial expert and a chief accountant) after
consultation. The Government has also accepted the recommendations made
in the cotton marketing study financed by IDA under the Zou Rural
Development Project, i.e., to use a maximum of two or three sales agents
paid on commission for the export marketing of cotton. Contracts with
these sales agents will be signed before December 31, 1987.
Other Reforms
18.       Provisional Budgets.  From the 1987/88 season, payments for
all activities in the cotton sub-sector will be made according to actual
cost instead of a 'bareme* representing indicative rather than real
costs. Starting with this season, SONAPRA will establish a detailed
provisional budget and financing plan covering the various activities
and based on cost accounting for the previous year. At the end of the
ginning and marketing season, real costs will be compared to the
budgeted costs and adjustments will be made before determining the level
of funds that should eventually go to, or be paid by, the Stabilization
Fund. Payments of surpluses into, or deficits from, the Stabilization
Fund for each season will be made as a function of the final costs
retained after the review.
19.       Sales Receipts.  Starting with the 1987/88 season, all sales
receipts for cotton will be deposited in a cotton account to be opened
by SONAPRA in BCB (or BCEAO) for this purpose. SONAPRA will inform the
Stabilization Fund, as soon as possible and systematically, of any
movements made from the account and their purpose. At the end of each
financial year, while waiting for a complete audit of the financial
statements and accounts, SONAPRA will debit the cotton account for part
of the amounts owed the Stabilization Fund. The sum debited will be
equivalent to 80? of the total estimated amount due for that year to the
Stabilization Fund.
20.       Input Subsidies.  Fertilizer subsidies have been eliminated
from the 1987/88 season and insecticides subsidies fixed at 15X. The
Government has decided to eliminate all subsidies from the 1988/89
season and will make the necessary announcement on input price. by the
end of April 1988. At the same time, to encourage cash sales, two
prices will be establishedi for inputss one for cash sales and the other
for credit sales. The latter will include elements for costs of credit
administration and interest charges.
21.       Producer Prices.  In line with its policy of encouraging
agricultural production, the Government will maintain an incentive price
for seed cotton within the limits of world market prices. It will
review each year with the donors, before the end of February, new prices
for the coming season. The review process will be designed to include
(a) an analysis of short-term price forecasts and future sales for
cotton; (b) an analysis of input prices and processing costs; and (c)
producer response to price signals for the previous year. As an initial
step, the producer price has been reduced from CFAF 110 kg to CPAF
100/kg for the 1987/88 season.



_ 55 _                Annex 2-2
Page I of 3
BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. Summary of Measures Already Taken in the Cotton Sub-Sector
(a) Ginning specialist recruited from CFDT to supervise and
coordinate operation of the ginning factories for the 1986/87
season (January 1987).
(b) Unit created in MDRAC for the 1986187 season to ensure effective
coordination of cotton marketing and ginning activities among the
CARDERs and to propose and implement measures to reduce losses
(March 1987).
(c) Detailed study completed on the organization of the cotton
sub-sector and actual costs of activities involved. The study
has made recommendations, accepted for the most part, for
reorganizing a number of activities (finished in March 1987).
(d) Decision takent (i) to transfer factories from under CARDER
management to SONAPRA; (ii) to modify the statutes of SONAPRA to
make it responsible for all cotton activities from primary
marketing to export  (iii) to transfer the management of the
stabilization funds from SONAPRA to a Stabilization Fund under
the tutelle of the Minister of MDRAC; and (iv) to create
industrial and transport departments for SONAPRA (March 1987).
(e) Decision taken and plan adopted to reduce areas of cotton to be
planted for the 1987188 season, through a decrease in seed and
input distribution in order to limit production for that season
to about 100,000 tons (March 1987).
(f) Decision taken to remunerate agencies and operators, starting in
1986/87, according to actual costs and work performed rather than
according to the bareme' (March 1987).
(g) Two grading centers for cotton lint established close to the
factories: Parakou for the North and Bohicon for the South (April
1987).
(h) Contracts signed with two private dealers to sell about
10,000 tons of excess seed cotton for ginning outside Benin
(March and April 1987).
(i) Subsidies on fertilizer eliminated and subsidies on insecticide
fixed at 15Z for the 1987/88 season. Cotton producer price
reduced from CFAF 110/kg to CPAP 100/kg. (Decision announced in
April 1987.)



- 56 -                     Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 3
(j) Study on cotton lint marketing completed and main recommendation
to use sales agents has been accepted by the Government (May
1987).
(k) Start of implementation of agreed recommendations from the
studies on the reorganization of accounting, administrative and
financial services of CARDER Borgou and SONAPRA.
(1) Completion of negotiations between the Government and CFDT on an
acceptable contract for assistance in managing SONAPRA's
technical activities (November 1987).
(m) Preparation of draft legal documents on the establishment and
organization of the Stabilization Fund (November 1987).
II. Actions to be Taken
(a) Signature of a decree setting up the Management Committee for the
Stabilization Fund. Draft decree has already been agreed on
between the Government and IDA. To be done before Negotiations.
(b) Completion of negotiations between Government and CFDT for
technical assistance to SONAPRA for transport, cotton processing,
factory management, cotton grading and financial management
(before Board Presentation) with agreement to be signed before
disbursement under the cotton sector program.
(c) Completion of negotiations between the Government and two or
three sales agents, to be paid on commission, for export
marketing of cotton (before Board Presentation) with agreement to
be signed before disbursement under the cotton sector program.
(d) Adoption of an acceptable dated plan for the transfer of the
factories from the CARDERs to SONAPRA (before Board Presentation)
with effective transfer before credit effectiveness.
(e) Discussion of recommendations on the reorganization of the
accounting and financial systems of SONAPRA and CARDER Borgou
(before Board Presentation) and implementation of agreed
recommendations before credit effectiveness.
(f) Signature of a working agreement between SONAPRA and the CARDERs
outlining responsibilities of each, timing of key actions, and
payment terms for CARDER services to the cotton sub-sector; in
this light the reorganization of the sub-sector implies that the
CARDERs, set up essentially as a public service, will now operate
as such and will no longer engage in commercial or industrial
activity but can provide services to be paid at cost, to SONAPRA.
(Agreement to be signed before credit effectiveness).



Annex 2-2
- 57 -                Page 3 of 3
(g)  Before the initial disbursement under the cotton sub-sector
rehabilitation component of the project (Financial Restructuring
and Stabilization Support) the following additional measures will
have to be taken:
(i) set up a secretariat to be manned by an externally recruited
agro-economist and three Beninese high-level agro-economists
to monitor and evaluate cotton sub-sector activities for the
management committee of the Stabilization Fund to be set up
before negotiations;
(ii) publication of the new statutes of SONAPRA;
(iii) agreement between the Government and IDA of a detailed
budget and financing plan for cotton sub-sector activities
and key indicators (expected production, ginning ratios, and
product quality) for 1987/88;
(iv) signature of an on-lending agreement between the Government
and the Stabilization Fund covering the Stabilization
Support to be provided under the project; the funds will be
on-lent to the Stabilization Fund for a period of 15 years
with a five-year grace period and at an interest rate
of 4X.
(h) Before the second tranche disbursement under the cotton
sub-sector component the following actions will have to be taken:
(i) implementation of new accounting and financial procedures
for CARDER Atacora and Zou; a reorganization study for the
accounting and financial systems of these two CARDERs are to
be financed as part of the PPF advance under the project
(para 3.17);
(ii) SONAPRA and the CARDERs will update their agreements on
their working relationships; and
(iii) preparation of and agreement on a detailed annual budget
including financing sources and arrangements for cotton
sub-sector activities for 1988/89, with comparison between
actual cost of the previous year and budgeted costs, and
agreement on key indicators for 1988/89 (e.g., production
level, ginning ratio, product quality, etc.); the budget
will take into account the fact that agencies and operators
are to be remunerated according to real costs.



- 59                                                    Annex  2-3
Page  1 of 2
PEOPI£'S REPUILIC Of OEIN
SECOND   RW RURAL DEVELOPIINI PRJECT
Key indicators ICR.1127-NEN).
PV '   P   I (1981/82)   PY 2 41921863) PY 3 41931/84)  PY 4 (1984195)    P  5 (I985/861
Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal Atual Appraisl Actual Appraisal kAtual Appraisal Actual
Fars involved        ...     21845  22214     26940  2108U     31435 25111      38590  31555      36590  35015
PROOUCTIDN
Cotton
Area (ONi         12358      12500   9980     15500  15420     16150 25145      21730  33431      23100 46537
Production Itons)  5734       9375  10444     11875  23113     15925 36190      19790 59841       23t55  59900
'ields (kg/ha)     545         750   1046       768   1408       933   1439       910   1790       1024   1267
Whiz.
Area INa)         20401      19710  21335     19470 23392      19640  28071     20t90  35056      21055  41350
Production (tons) 14190      13670  16922     14895  20804     15E85 20875      19360  29325      24805  37215
Yields (kg/ha)      72        694    793        765    889       609    744       937    837       1176    90
9orghu
Area (Ha)         38587      33385  37113     33165  39977     33550 49902      3385  57254       3S55   56119
Production (tons) 23139      19930 22131      21665  25752     23055 30124      26910  39299      32615  47701
Yields lik/ha)     600         597    595       660    644       687    604       760   6B6         922    650
6roundnuts
Area (HIa)         516        610   5943       8060  4729       8145  4954       6575  722?        8745   9174
Production (tons) 4398        4675   3576      5200   3153      5455   3492      6330  5418        770   6539
Yields (kqlha)      948       597    519        645    667       570    705       738    750        990    800
Niebe
Area IHa)         11084       7725   9546      7710  12487      7820  13122      6290  13909       8415  14630
Production (tons)  3325       2500   3554      2735   4544      2965   5107      3555   5134       4520  7315
Yields (kg/ha)      300        324    372       355    374       379    389       429    441        537    500
Rice
Area (Na)          1956       1400   1720      1100   1827      2200   1871      2600   1585       2500   1396
Production (tons)  2445       1680   2295      2320   2748      3020   1762      3710  2011        4000   1954
Yields (kg/ha)     1250       1200   1334      1289   1504      1373   942       1427   1259       1536   1400



Annex 2-3
- 60 -                              Page 2 of 2
INDUSTRIAL CROP PRODUCTION
nst Uou PJECT
60~                           -                         -St
401
3' -
PM        F'Y       W2  ,   P                    P4 ax
Ez          _      PROECT           c
Appraisal  Actual      Appraisal   Actual
Cotton     Cotton      Groundnut   Groundnut
FOODCROP PRODUCTION
nRsT UORSou PwJEcT
so.
50 
40-- 
cm      JECT in4
Appraisal   Actual  Appraisal   Actual  Appraisal   Actual
Maize       Maize   Sorghum       Sorghum Niebe         Niebe



Annex 2-4
- 61 -                      Page 1 of 4
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
COTTON SUB-SECTOR REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Cash Flow of Cotton Sub-Sector
The various institutions intervening in the cotton subsector are
normally paid according to estimated costs ("bareme"), decided on by a
national commission at the beginning of each season. The bareme quite
often does not reflect actual costs and hence may give results on the
cotton account different from reality. As part of the cotton sector
reorganization program, Government has agreed to use actual costs of the
marketing and processing chain to pay for the sub-sector's activities. The
following are the key assumptions used in estimating the cash flow of the
cotton sector for the 1983/84 to 1990/91 seasons. (Table on page 4). The
assumptions are based on real costs as calculated in the cotton sector
financial and organizational study.
(a) Production of Seed Cotton. Actual production to 1986/87;
projected production from 1987/88.
(b) Sales of Cotton Lint. The ginning ratios used to estimate cotton
lint output are 38.1% for 1986/87, 39.5% for 1987/88, 40% for
1988/89 and 40.5% thereafter. It is assumed that all cotton lint
produced is sold. For 1986/87, SONAPRA estimated that the
factories ginned about 125,000 tons with the remaining sold
directly as seed cotton.
(c) Cotton Seed Output. Estimated at 52% of ginned seed cotton.
(d) (i) Prices of Cotton Lint: prices are the actual average prices
obtained up to 1986/87. From 1987/88, projections are made from
the World Bank Half-Yearly Revision of Commodity Prices
(September 1987) for cotton "A" Index Midling 1 3/32. An average
discount of 5% is taken on the CIF projected price, and a sales
commission of 2% of CIF is also included for the sales agents to
be used by SONAPRA. In estimating CIF prices it is assumed that
about 60% of output is sold in the calendar year of production
and 40% the year after. Thus, for example, 1987/88 price is
calculated as a weighted average of 60% of the projected 1987
price and 40% of the projected 1988 price. Dollar values are
converted to CFAF at a constant exchange rate of CPAF 278 = US$1,
the average of actual and projected exchange rates from 1986 to
1990.
(ii) Cotton Seed Price. For 1986/87, SONAPRA has sold 60,000
tons of cotton seed at a net loss of 4,200 F/ton. For 1987/88,
it is assumed that there will neither be a gain nor loss from
cotton seed sales but from 1988/89, with better management, about
75% of cotton seed produced will be sold at a net gain of
3,000 F/ton and 5,000 F/ton from 1989/90 onwards.



- 62 -                 Annex 2-4
Page 2 of 4
(e) Direct Sale of Seed Cotton. For 1986/87, since production
exceeded ginning capacity, SONAPRA signed two contracts for
direct sale of seed cotton. The first contract was for 4,000
tons to be shipped to Turkey at a net price of CPAF 78,100/ton
FOB (105,000 F/ton FOB Cotonou less costs). The second contract
was for 30,000 tons to be sent from Parakou and Kandi to Nigeria
at a price of CFAP 89,000/ton. In practice, however, the buyer
was able to evacuate only about 6,000 tons. The latter figure is
used in the calculation.
(f) Seed Cotton Purchase. Actual amounts paid up to 1986/87 for seed
cotton purchased from farmers. For 1986/87, 93% of first choice
at 110 F/kg and 7% of second choice cotton at 75 F/kg were
purchased. From 1987/88, it is assumed that 92.5% of first
choice at 100 F/kg and 7.52 of second choice cotton at 75 F/kg
will be purchased.
(g). Primary Marketint Costs: includes costs involved in organizing
the market, (CFAP 2,266/ton), various payments for quality
control (50 F/ton) and to the region (100 F/ton), as well as a
buyer's commission of 1,500 F/ton for a total of 3,916 F/ton of
seed cotton.
(h) Transoort of Seed Cotton to Factory. SONAPRA estimates that this
will cost 11,700 F/ton this year. The transport rate is expected
to fall to 10,800 F/ton of seed cotton for 1987/88 (better
organization) and to an average of 8,400 F/ton of seed cotton
from 1988/89 (when new factories being built come into
operation).
(i) Ginnint and Balina Costs: taken from the financial and
organizational study of the cotton sector.
(j) Lint Handling: covers handling in Cotonou (CFAF 1,781/ton) plus
rental of storage spice in Cotonou (CFAF 1,516/ton).
(k)  Lint Transport to Cotonou: estimated at 9,500 F/ton of lint for
1986/87 and 1987/88; expected to fall to 9,000 F/ton from 1988/89
with better organization.
(1) Financial Charses. Financial charges were 5,900 F/ton and
10,800 F/ton of lint in 1984/85 and 1985/86. These were periods
when SONAPRA had funds available in the stabilization fund. For
1986/87, the financial study estimates that financial cbarges
would be about 28,500 F/ton of lint while SONAPRA estimates
financial charges will be about 15,000/ton of fibre. We have
used a figure of 25,000 P/ton based on recent estimates of the
actual charges. From 1987/88, figures used are taken from the
cotton sector study.



-63-                 Annex 2-4
Page 3 of 4
(u) Port and Transit Char  ss: made up of charges for quality control
(247 F/ton), lighterage (1,337 F/ton), port tax (312 F/ton),
transit charges (4,211 F/ton), vehicle port tax (66 F/ton), sales
of samples (1,464/ton), and contribution to the loader's union
(602 P/ton), for a total of about CFAF 8,300/ton of lint.
(n) Other Operating Costs of SONAPRA. 1986/87 figure estimated from
unaudited accounts of SONAPRA for 1986. We have, however,
deducted from the total figure given by SONAPRA (CIA? 1,243
million); taxes (CFAF 137 million treated separately);
extraordinary sundry losses ("charges et pertes divers hors
exploitation" - equivalent to CFAP 228 million) and depreciation
provisions (CPAP 94 million).
(o) Direct Tax on SONAPRA. A turnover tax of about CFAP 137 million
was charged in 1986. For 1987, a turnover tax of CFAF 200
million is estimated as a proportion of the volume of
transactions.
(p)  CARDER Cost.  Up to 1986/87, this cost covered the part of CARDER
operating costs (including extension cost) that were attributable
to cotton. From 1987/88, the CARDER cost are to cover services
rendered to SONAPRA for seed cotton primary marketing, quality
control and storage until evacuation. It is estimated at
4,000 F/ton of seed cotton.
(q) Diverse Taxes. From 1986/87, diverse taxes are essentially
transfers made from the cotton account for rural roads
(2,000 F/ton) and for research (500 F/ton).



-64 -                                            Annex 2-4
Page  4 of 4
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
COTtON SECTOR REHA8ILITATION PROSRAN
CASH-FLOQ OF COTTON SECTOR
(million CFAF--constant 1987 Prices)
1983/84  1984/15 1985/86  1986/87  1987/8B  1988/89   1989/90   1990/91
1. Production of seed Cotton (tons)             48605    88120   99187   134830   100000   125000    135000    140000
Sales of Cotton Lint (tons)                  16822    33399   34194    47806    39500    50000        54675      56700
2. Cotton Seed Output (tons)                    26733    48466   49053    64847    52000    65000        70200      72800
3. Prices (FOB)
Cotton Lint (CFAFIton)                      662922   534451  301152   342142   393259   358230    337842    361484
Cotton Seed (NET) (CFAF/ton)                                            (4,200)       0     3000       5000      5000
4. Income from Cotton Sales                    11,152   17,845  10,298   16,894   15,534   18,058    19,735    20,769
Cotton  Lint Export                         11,152   17,945  10,298   16,356   15,534   17,911    18,472    20,496
Seed Cotton L(irect Sale)                                                  783
Receipts from Cotton Seed Sales                                           (245)       0       146       263        273
5. Cotton Direct Costs
5.1 Cost of Seed Cotton Used                 5,506    9,926  10,751   16,606   10,772   12,573    13,622    13,972
Seed Cotton Purchase                     4,834    8,739   9,677   14,501    9,292   11,020    11,945    12,233
Prisary Marketing Cost                     157      356      349      528       400      500        540       560
Transport to Factory                       514      831      725    1,578    1,080    1,053       1,137     1,179
5.2 Ginning and Bailing Cost                   839    1,628   1,621    2,220    1,919    1,960        2,101     2,162
Binning & Operating Cost                   577    1,062   19029    1,407    1,215    1,124        1,205     1,240
Baling cost                                149      287      294      436       340      430        470       488
Depreciation                                95      164      180      180       200      200        200       200
Lint Handling                               17       90      103      158       130      165        190       187
Insurance                                    0       28       16       40        33       42         46        48
5.3 Narketing and other Costs                1,292    1,759   1,836    3,246    2,471    2,838        3,027     3,090
Transport of Lint to Cotonou               103      310      328      459       375      450        492       510
Financial Charges (Narketing)              235      197      369    1,195       757      938      1,030     1,054
Customs Duties                              73      138      148      210       168      202        222       227
Port + Tansit Charges                      279      335      369      397       320      415        454       471
Other Operating Costs (SONPRA)             593      772      621      785       842      833        929       927
Direct Tax on SONAPRA (est.)                                 137      200       132      144        156       158
6. Indirect Costs                                 471       484   1,181       948      494       612       663        686
CARDER Cost                                431      369   1,069       828       400      500        540       560
Diverse Taxes                               40      115      112      120        94      112        123       126
7. Total Costs                                  8,097   13,797  15,380  23,020   15,654   17,984    19,413    19,910
8. Net Cash Flow (Excl. Depreciation)           3,150    4,211  14,911)  (5,946)        80       273      (478)    1,059
Direct Taxes                                                        397       529      394       458       501        511
N.8: Figures for 1983/94-1965/86 are in current prices.



- 65 -                          Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 6
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STABILIZATION FUND
Role of the Stabilization Fund
1.        The Stabilization Fund will be created by decree as a
financially autonomous legal entity under the supervision of MDRAC. The
Fund will be responsible for ensuring price stabilization and support
for cotton and other agricultural products to be so designated by the
Government, using resources that it would build up when world market
prices exceed cost price of the individual products. During the project
period, since cotton is the only crop for which a minimum guaranteed
price exists and whose marketing is officially assured, the Fund's
stabilization role will be limited to cotton. It will thus ensure that
the farmer is guaranteed a minimum floor price when necessary.
Resources for the Fund may be constituted through stabilization fund
payment from individual crops (where receipts exceed costs), internal or
external contributions and payments, credits and loans that the Fund may
contract for price stabilization purposes, and gifts.
2.        The Management Committee of the Fund (para 3) will ensure that
a reserve fund for stabilization and price support is built up
equivalent to at least CFAF 5 billion. A special Reserve Fund Account
will be opened in BCEAO for this purpose. This reserve fund, on the
recommendation of the Management Committee, may be used: (a) to minimize
the operating costs of the cotton sub-sector in a manner that will not
immobilize the funds for more than one year, such as through
reimbursable interest-bearing seasonal advances to SONAPRA; or (b) for
possible reimbursements of loans and credits contracted by the Fund to
cover past deficits of the cotton sub-sector. Once the reserve fund is
constituted, the Management Committee may propose to use any extra funds
in the stabilization account fort (i) paying a price premium to the
producers; (ii) paying a productivity bonus to SONAPRA; and (iii)
finally paying to the Government, on an exceptional basis, any remaining
balance that would rot have been used, for investments in productive
agricultural activities.
Management Committee of the Stabilization Fund
3.        A Management Committee will be set up for the overall
management of the Fund. The committee will be responsible for
elaborating, supervising and seeing to the application of the Fund's
general policy. The committee will in general be responsible for
(i) proposing the annual producer price for cotton and other inputs;
(ii) monitoring and controlling the cost price for cotton and sales
price and hence financial management of SONAPRA; (iii) ensuring that the
Stabilization Fund receives what is due to it; (iv) guaranteeing, if
necessary, seasonal credits for the smooth operations of the cotton
sub-sector; (v) approving the level of seasonal credit for cotton



- 66 -                           Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 6
primary marketing; and (vi) approving proposals for the use of funds
from the stabilization account.  The Committee will meet at least twice
a year; in September to consider proposals for cotton marketing and
ginning and to approve the provisional budget for the cotton sub-
sector; in March to review producer prices and to get an update on how
the season is evolving, as well as ascertain the final results of the
previous season. Its chairman will be constantly kept informed of the
evolution of the sector's activities. Other meetings may be scheduled
as necessary.
4.        The Management Committee will be chaired by the Minister of
Rural Development. The Director of the Stabilization Fund will act as
secretary to the Committee. Other members of the Committee will include
the Director General of SONAPRA, a director general of one of the
CARDERs producing cotton, and high-level representatives from the
Ministries responsible for Finance, Commerce, Planning, and Inspection
of public enterprises. Farmer groups and industries usix&g the product
in question (e.g., textiles) will be represented on the Committee.
Overationu of the Fund
5.        Day to day management of the Fund will be assured by a
permawnt secretariat to the Management Committee. The secretariat will
also be responsible for monitoring and analyzing the ecoromic and
financial situation of the cotton sub-sector and providing up-to-date
information on it to the Management Committee. The secretariat will be
headed by a director and will include an externally recruited financial
controller, three or four high level Beninese economists and agro-
economists and a high level chief accountant. It will be assisted in
its tasks by periodic external support from consultants financed under
the project.
Resvonsibilities of the Stabilization Fund
6.        The Fund will have three main functions:
(a) verify, certify and settle outstanding debts of the cotton
sub-sector and coordinate the financial restructuring (paras
3.28-3.31 of Appraisal Report) of the institutions involved;
(b) calculate funds that will go into, or be taken from, the
Stabilization Fund, make proposals for price stabilization and
manage the funds in the stabilization account; and
(c)   supervise and monitor financial and economic activities of the
cotton sub-sector.
Settlement of Outstanding Debts of the Cotton Sub-Sector
7.        One of the first tasks of the secretariat will be to veri-fy
and certify outstanding debts for the 1986/87 season not yet paid by
SONAPRA and funds yet to be received for the season on account of
cotton. The date of September 30, 1987 will be used as a cut-off date



-67-                              Annex 3-1
Page 3 of 6
for purposes of estimating outstanding debts for the 1986/87 season.
After review, the Director of the Fund and the financial controller will
certify each individual debt before payment.
8.        External financial support for settling these debts could be
made either directly to suppliers and institutions owed relatively large
sums of money by SONAPRA (banks, OCBN, OBEMAP, local and foreign
suppliers, CARDERs etc.) or through a special account to be oDened in
the name of the Stabilization Fund at BCEAO for this purpose. CCCE, for
example, may be able to make direct payments to suppliers based on a
certification of the debts by the Fund. For IDA and IFAD, however,
payments would be for agricultural inputs and for IDA only, factory
spares. Disbursements can be made either as a direct payment to
suppliers or in reimbursement to SONAPRA for inputs and spares procured
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the two institutions. The
counterpart funds from the sale of these inputs will be paid by SONAPRA
into the special account to be opened by the Fund at BCEAO for the
purpose. The Stabilization Fund.may then reimburse certified debts out
of the account. This special account will be kept separate from other
accounts that the Fund may open at BCEAO, especially the Reserve Fund.
After all debts for the 1986/87 season have been paid and the financial
restructuring envisaged in the proposed project completed, monies
remaining in the special account may be transferred to the Reserve Fund
account with the agreement of the donors.
9.        Since the counterpart funds from the sale of inputs will only
be received by SONAPRA from farmers after about a year from the
acquisition and payment of the procured inputs, IDA credit proceeds to
settle part of the l9P,8/89 input credit taken from BCB will be
reimbursed by SONAPRA into the Stabilization Fund account when farmers
repay the input credit.
Price Stabilization
10.       Export and sales receipts for cotton products will continue to
be cashed in by SONAPRA in its cotton account at BCB. SONAPRA will
continue to be responsible for obtaining seasonal credits for primary
marketing, processing and input purchases. The level of such credits
will have to be approved by the Management Committee. The secretariat
of the Fund will monitor and review in a regular manner the financial
management of SONAPRA to ensure that costs are kept to the minimum and
sales receipts maximized.
11.       Since the Obareme will no longer be used, the secretariat
will have the role of determining a posteriori, together with the
services of SONAPRA, the financial results of the season. Based on a
review of real costs and receipts for the season, the amounts to be paid
into or from the Stabilization Fund will be estimated. Amounts to be
paid into the Stabilization Fund will be deposited in the Reserve Fund
Account at BCEAO (para 2) at the end of the season. At the end of each
financial year, while waiting for a complete audit of the financial
statements and accounts, SONAPRA will pay to the Fund about 80 of the
amount estimated to be the total surplus due for the year to the Fund.
The difference will be paid after accounts have been audited and



Annex 3-1
- 68 -                          Page 4 of 6
verified. Payments from the Reserve Fund Account to pay for SONAPRA
costs above receipts will be made only after SONAPRA accounts have been
audited and certified and the secretariat of the Committee has certified
that the costs represent real costs of the cotton sub-sector. Other
payments from the Reserve Fund Account will be subject to the provision
that a reserve of up to CFAF 5 billion be built up. The Stabilization
Fund will have its accounts audited annually.
Financial and Economic Function
12.       SONAPRA will be required to prepare, for the beginning of each
season, a previsional budget based on ex-ante estimates of the cost of
various activities that take into account industry norms and based on
the results of the previous season. During the preparation of this
budget key indicators involving production, ginning yields, quality and
financing needs will be established. The annual budget will be approved
by the Management Committee and the external donors.
13.       Each month SONAPRA will provide the secretariat with a monthly
status of the realizat.ion of the budget. The secretariat will then do a
monthly summary and a detailed quarterly analysis of the results and
compare it with the budget. The analysis will be presented to the
Management Committee to enable a true control of cotton sub-sector
activities. The analysis will highlight and investigate major
deviations from budgeted costs or deviations from industry norms (based
on other West African countries) and will draw the attention of SONAPRA
and the Management Committee to such deviations. The secretariat will
thus be able at any given time to monitor the status of the use of
seasonal credits, primary marketing, ginning performance, evacuation of
cotton products from the factory and sales performance. SONAPRA and the
Stabilization Fund will conclude an annual working agreement on their
various activities before September 30, 1988. An interim agreement
covering up to September 1988 will be signed soon after the Fund
is created.
14.       To correctly follow up on the various activities and have a
reliable means of estimating the cost price, and hence the amount of
stabilization, the secretariat will prepare a management performance
chart "tableau de bord de gestion" for the sub-sector with the help of
its external consultant unit. It will establish a reliable means of
communication with the interior, especially the factories (through a
radio network), to follow up on the evolution of sub-sector activities.
Specific Responsibilities of the Secretariat
15.       Some of the specific responsibilities of the secretariat
vis-a-vis the various operators in the sub-sector will be as follows:
SONAPRA. As far as SONAPRA is concerned, the secretariat will review
and control the previsional budget and cash forecasts for each season.
It will also review and comment on transport arrangements for seed
cotton, agricultural inputs and cotton lint and the evacuation program
for finished products. It will monitor primary marketing in as far as



- 69 -                         Annex 3-1
Page 5 of 6
size of markets, cash advances to the field for payment to farmers and
credit reimbursement are concerned. It will monitor local and export
marketing of cotton products. It will update regularly with SONAPRA the
financial situation of each ongoing season with emphasis on outstanding
debts to farmers, level of marketing of final products, monthly cash
forecasts, financial comitments, etc.
CARDERs/Farmer Groups. The secretariat will monitor the distribution of
inputs, credit recovery and payment of farmers and farmer groups during
seed cotton marketing.
Financial Restructurina. The secretariat will act as a coordinator of
the financial restructuring program and provide technI"al advice through
its consultant support unit for the financial restructuring process. It
will also provide technical advice for the financial evaluation of the
factories and their transfer to SONAPRA.
Management Committee and External Donors
16.       The secretariat will provide a regular follow-up for the
Government and external donors, on the key indicators of the sub-sector.
17.       Some of these key indicators that the secretariat will monitor
at each level are:
Primary Marketing
-    Quantity of seed cotton
-    Quality
-    Primary marketing costs
-    Credit recovery
Cotton Lint and Cotton Seed Marketing
-    Quantity and quality of lint
-    Grading procedures
-    Evolution of cotton prices on the world market
-    Comparative analysis of prices obtained for Benin
cotton and other West African cotton (lint and seed)
-    Various contracts signed for Benin cotton (lint and seed)
-    Speed of recovery of sales receipts and
methods of payment
-    Conformity between sales contracts and receipts
-    Comparative analysis of results among various sales agents.
Ginning
-    Storage procedures for seed cotton
-    Conformity between purchases and quantities sent to factory
-    Conformity between quality purchased and quality ginned



-70 -Annex 3-1
Page 6 of 6
Ginning yields
Ginning costs (fixed and variable costs and use of
intermediate inputs)
Evacuation program for lint and seed
*    Storage of lint
-    Prospective analysis on the evolution of ginning performance
and productivity of the factories.
Transport
-    Cost per kilometer for transport of various products (seed
cotton, lint, cotton seed, agricultural inputs etc.)
Financial Management of the Cotton Sub-Sector
-    Cash forecast by decade for seed cotton purchases
-    Analysis of financial costs
-    Rapid estimate of the financial results of the season
-    Analysis of cost deviations from budget estimates
-    and regular updates with SONAPRA of the provisional budget of
the season.
18.       One of the first tasks of the permanent secretariat will be to
define concrete procedures on how it will follow-up on the various
economic and financial activities of the sub-sector. These procedures
mst be drawn up as a working agreement with the key operator, SONAPRA
(para 13).



-71-                      Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 8
PEOPL'S' REPUBLIC O  BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
1.        The viability of the complex of rural development Institutions
(CARDERs) and their supply and marketing organization, SONAPRA depends very
heavily on cotton. In 1984185, income from cotton sales represented about
73X of SONAPRA's total revenues with agricultural Input sales (principally
for cotton) making up about 132. The expansion of seed cotton production
from about 31,000 tons in 1982/83 to about 90,000 tons in 1985/86 and
133,500 tons in 1986/87 has increased the annual operating expenditure of
the cotton subsector from about CPAP 6.2 billion In 1982/83 to CPAP 19.8
billion in 1985/86 and CIA? 27.7 billion in 1986/87, broken down as
follows:
ComDosition of Cotton Sub-Sector 22eratina Exnenditure
1982/83        1985/86        1986/87
Production (tons)             30.700           89_000        133.500
CPAF billion
Amount Paid Producer           2.6                  9.8         14.5
Inputs                         1.7                  4.7          5.1
Marketing and Processing Costs 1.9                  5.3          8.1
Total                     6.2                 19.8         27.7
2.        While the increase In Input costs has been financed by external
donors and Government, the increased producer payments and marketing and
processing costs have been borne by the sector. Between 1982/83 and
1984/85 SONAPRA was able to generate a positive cash flow from its cotton
and cocoa activities (the latter up to 1983/84). It was therefore abil to
prefinance agricultural inputs supplied to farmers through the CARDERs, and
seed cotton marketing and processing, using funds put aside for
stabilization, and additional short-term borrowing from the local banking
system. SONAPRA's Income Statement for the years 1983 to 1985 is given in
Table 1. The present drastic reduction in cotton prices eombined with the
appreciation of the CPA Franc with respect to the dollar now leaves the
sector very much exposed. The cash flow of the sector, given in Anne: 2-3,
shows that there was a considerable negative cash flow for both 1985/86 and
this will continue In 1986/87 with a slight improvement in 1987188. Under
the assumptions used in this report for quantities and prices, the sector
would about break even in 1988189 with positive cash-flow from 1989/90
(Annex 2-3).
3.        The cotton sub-sector remains, In the medium-term however,
financially and economically viable as it has globally been before the
drastic price drop at the end of 1985. Reduced unit costs for marketing



- 72 -                      Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 8
and processing, improved efficiency in ginning and a tight control on
recurrent expenditures that would result from the reorganization of the
sector should improve the productivity and operating effectiveness of the
sector.
4.        The stabilization funds already built up have been committed in
financing activities in the sector. These funds are no' immediately
available at SONAPRA since they are owed as debt either by the CARDERs or
farmers (para 2.23). The funds repaid by CARDERs and farmers during the
current marketing and processing season were only able to finance the
deficits for 1985186 and practically exhausted the etabilization Funds
except for about CFAF 3.8 billion owed by SONAPRA to the Fund (para 3.31).
In the current financial climate of Benin, however, -.either Government nor
the commercial (state operated) banks are sufficiently liquid to commit the
required funds, in long-term loans to the sector, for the 19b6/87 and
1987/88 season. It is proposed therefore that the deficits for these two
years be financed jointly by Government and external donors as a soft
long-term loan to the cotton sector. The loan would be made to the
Stabilization Fund and would be repayable over 15 years with a five year
grace period and at a rate of interest of 2Z per annum (para 3.41). The
internal cash flow forecast for the sector is given in Table 2.
5.        To make provision for future price fluctuations, and given the
lack of control over the Stabilization Fund in the past, Government has
agreed to set up a management committee for the Stabilization Fund. The
committee would see. to it that a Stabilization Reserve Fund is built up
equivalent to 50Z of the average value of cotton ginned over the three
preceding years before any of the funds can be used for other purposes.
The Reserve Fund so built up can, however, be used to finance short-term
reimbursable activities that would reduce operating costs of the cotton
sector. The Stabilization Fund is to be set up by decree before
presentation of the credit to the Board.
Financial Situation of the Institutions
6.1       An analysis of the balance sheets of the CARDERs and SONAPRA
shows a deterioration in their financial position, especially for SONAPRA,
with its current ratio falling between 1984 and 1986. While the retained
earning and capital of CARDERs Borgou and Atacora are marginally sufficient
to cover their long-term assets (Table 4) the permanent funds for Zou and
Mono do not cover their long-term assets and would require additional
funding. Table 4 shows that in general the working capital situation of
the CARDERs is not favorable, apart from CARDER Borgou. However even in
the case of the latter, large provisions for losses both in 1985 and 1986
implicit in the balance sheets make the real working capital substantially
lower than the figures on apparent working capital would indicate. Thus
detailed analyses of CARDER balance sheets done in the organizational and
financial sector study of the cotton sector -how that the working capital
of the CARDERs has disappeared. The situation is worse with SONAPRA since
losses on the cotton account is aggravating its working capital situation.
The financial restructuring program included in the project would
reestablish the financial equilibrium of these institutions.



73                                                   Annex 3-2
Tabole 1
8EN1N                                         2  a'e  3  of 8
COTTON REHABILITATION PROGRAN
SONAPRA INCOME STATEMENT
.eee._._a_
(million CFAF)
As of Derember 31
1983       1q94        1985
1. Sales Income                              11,298      22,404      24,843
Cotton Lint                               5,510      12,342      16,774
Cotton Seed                                 129         637       1,427
Agricultural Inputs                         941       1,675       3,190
Packing Naterial                            209         785       29020
Cocoa                                     2,093       6,t71           7
Other Salen                               2,417         4i4       1,425
2. Direct Costs                               8,506      13,876      19,382
Cost of Goods                              7970      12,t65      19,227
supplies                                     91         184         189
Transport                                   305         655         725
Other Operating Costs                       140         372         241
3. Operating Profit  LOGss)                   2,792       8,528       5,461
4. Other Income                                 473         717       3,736
Sundry Income                               112          14         125
Capital 6rants                              200         200       1,970
Interest Inc m                              102         104         251
Transfer from Stabilization Fund             59         399       1,390
5. Other Costs                                1,964      10,113       9,186
Sundry Expensen                              48          47         119
Mages and Salaries                          232         234         284
Rates and Taxes                             313         560         252
Financial Charges                           220         261         314
DepreKiat on & other provisions             178         535       1,446
Provision for Stabilization                 973       89,476      5,771
6. Total Gross Prz,fit (Loss)                 1,301         (868)     1,011
7. Non-Operating Profit                          41       1,333         10
8. Profit Before Tues                          1342         465        1191
9. Taxes on Profits                             (644)       (224)       (572)
10. not Profit                                   698         241         619
uauutu,,                                    a3           sr=



74  Annex  3-2
~ 7 4                      ~                        Table 2
BENIN                                   Page  4 of 8
COTTON REHABILITATION PROSRAI
Internal Cash-Flow of Cotton Sector
(million CFAFJ
As of b cesber 31
PYl      PY2      PY3       PY4
1.Sross Profit ILoss) from Operations          (5,946)      36     (379)   1,007
2. Donors I Oovernsment ProgrWa Support        5,946         0      379        0
3. Profit Before laxes                             0        36        0    1,007
4. Taxes on Profits (Est. at 49 1)                 0        17        0      483
5. Net Profit                                       0       19        0       524
6. Depreciation                                  200       215      220      230
7. Gross Annual Cash Flow                        200       234      220      754
9. Redemption of Long rern ebt   1/                0         0        0        0
9. Nut Annual Cash Flox   2/                     200       234      220      754
NOTEs PYI is taken to be 1986/I87; the deficit a! s965186 has been paid off
using  Stabilization Funds built up betuen 1982/83 and 1984/95.
If Repayment of Funds advanced by 6overnment and Ddiors to start in PY 6
2/ To be put in a Drepreciation Fund and a Stabilization Fund



Annex 3-2
- 75 -                          Table 3
Page 5 of 8
SONAPRA
Balance Sheet
December 31. 1985 (ClAP Million)
ASSETS                                 LIABILITIES
Current Assets                         Current Liabilities
Cash                     6,583         Cash                           6,211
Accounts receivable                    Accounts Payable
- CARDERs          10,492               - CARDERs                6,379
- Other            11,170               - Other                  4,380
Total current liabilities     16,970
Inventory                2.842         Lont term debt  '              1,721
Total current assets    31*087
Fixed assets (net)       2,231         Capital + Retained Earnings   14.627
33,318                                       33,318
j--=-
Working Capital         14,117
Working Capital needs   13,745
Additional working
capital requirement         -



Balance Sheet *
December 31, 1985 (CFAF mzllion)
ASSETS                    Borgou    Atacora    Zou   Mono    LIABILITILi                    Borgou   Atacora   Zou    Mono
Current assets                                                Current liabilities
Cash                       1,114      223        492    190   Cash                             285      14      437     330
Accounts receivable                                           Accounts Payable
- SONAPRA/CARDERS    7,360       803        698    101        - SONAPRA/CARDERS a/    8,501   1,620   2,615        880
- Other               2,570      640      1,767    305        - Other                   3,961     221   1,113       17
Total current liabilities  12,747   1,855   4,165   1,227
Inventory                  3,193      219        798    445   Long term debt                    -       -       -        -
total -current..assets    14,237    1,885     3,755  1,041
Fixed assets (net)         1,288      811        640    340   Capital + Retained Capital   2,778       841      230     153,
o.4
15,525    2,696     4,395  1,381                                 15,525   2,696   4,395   1,381'
inm       immm                                                       - _88           - _
Net Working Capital        1,490      30       (410)  (186)
a/   This includes debt arrears to SONAPRA of CFAF 1,502 million for Borgou, CFAF 460 million for Atacora,
CFAF 626 million for Zou and CFAF 168 million for Mono that may have to be converted into long-term debt.
at x



- 77 -                                          Annex 3-2
Table 5
BENIN                                      Page  7 of 8
COTTON REHABILITATION PR06RAH
SONAPRA
Comparative Balante Sheets
-------------CFAF Million-- - -------------
ASSETS                                    31/12/1983  3111211994 31112/1085  301911906
1. Current Assets
Cash                                       2,967      8,750       6,583    3,020
Accounts Receivable   1/                   9,284      6,322      21,420   19,236
Inventories       2/                         679      1,778       2,842    2,994
Other Current Assets   3/                    104         314        242       288
Total Current Assets                      13,034     17,164      31,087   25,53B
2. Fixed Assets (Net)                          2,131       2,212      2,231    2,163
TOTAL ASSETS                               t5,165     19,376      33,319   27,701
LIABILITIES AND EQUITJ
3. Current Liabilities
Bank Overdraft   41                        4.166      2,530       6,211    2,745
Accounts Payable   1/                      6,248      4,443       9,429   12,489
Other Liabilities   3/                       427         644      1,330    1,235
Total Current Liabilities                  10,941      7,616      16,970   16,469
4. Long-terc Debt                              1,721       1,721      1,721    1,721
total Liabilities                         12,562      9,337      18,691   19,190
5. Capital
Authorised Capital Called                    707        707         707       707
Olutstanding Capital                        (500)       (500)      (5001    (500)
Capital Grants                                87         B7          52        25
Retained Earnings                            698        814       1,434       570
Reserves   51                              1,611      8,930      12,934    8,709
Total Capital                              2,603     10,038      14,627    9,511
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY              15,165     19,376      33,318   27,701
6. Net Working Capital                         2,193      9,548      14,117    9,069
SOURCE: Financial and Organizational Study of Cotton Sector in Benin (March 1987).
FOOTNOTES
I/ The accounts receivable and payable are made up essentially of
cross-indebtedness betmeen the'CARDERs and SONDPRA for otton products and inputs.
2/ Inventories consist mainly of agricultural and cotton factory inputs and ginned cotton.
31 These are accrued receivables and accrued expenses payable.
4/ Essentially outstanding short-term credit for purchase of seed cotton.
5/ Reserves made for stabilization.



- 78 -                                           Annex 3-2
Table 6
BENIN                                     Page 8 of 8
SECOND BOR6OU RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
CARDER BORGU
Comparative Balance Sheets
-----------CFAF Ni I I i on
ASSETS                                  31t12/1983  31/12/1984 31/12/1985  301911986
1. Current Assets
Cash                                       476      1,373      1,114      705
Accounts Receivable   11                   885      2,031      1,105   10,527
Inventories       2/                     11105      1,785      3,193    1,574
Other Current Assets  3/                     0         20      2,825        9
Total Current Assets                     2,466      5,209     14,237   12,815
2. Fixed Assets (Net)                          736      1,101      1,268    1,471
TOTAL ASSETS                              3,202      6,310     15,525   14,286
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
3. Current Liabilities
Bank Overdraft    4/                       285        285        2i5      285
Accounts Payable   1/                    1,272      2,929     1O,510    9,466
Other Liabilities    3/                    402      1,108      1,952    1,744
Total Current Liabilities                 1,T59      4,M       12,747   11,495
4. Long-terw  Debt                               0          0          0        0
Total Liabilitis                         1,959      4,222     12,747   11,495
5. Capital
Authwrised Capital Called                  300        300        300      300
Outstanding Capital                       (250)      (250)      (250)    (250)
Capital Brants  5/                         9?       1,429      1,546    1,963
Retained Earnings                          164        577      1,150      746
Reserves                                    32         32         32       32
Total Capital                            1,243      2,089      2,778    2,791
TOTAL LIILITIES AND EIUITY               3,202      6,310     15,525   14,286
6. Net Marking Capital                         507        997      1,490    1,320
SOURCE: Financial and Organizational Study of Cottob Sector in Benin (larch 1997).
FOOTNOTES
1/ The accounts receivable and payable ar    de u  essntially of
cross-indebtedness beten the CARDER and SOII for cotton products and inputs.
2/ Inventories consist minly of agricultural and cotton factory inputs and ginned cotton.
3/ Thee are accrued rceivables and ccrued expenss payable.
4/ This represnts the SO016RI debt transferred to the CARDER vitb the fKctorieu.
5/ Capital grants are funds received fron donors and 6overnment for implementation
of the Doigos Rural Oelopmt Project.



-79-' -Annex 3?
BENIIN
SECOND PROJET BOR0OU
PROJECT COST SUNliWRY BY TINE
----------CFAF Nillion------USS 000 I Base Foreign   Local Taxes
0       1     2      3   Total Total  Costs Exchange  Costs
A.AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT
Extension & fraining          0.0  192.6  176.7  71.5  440.8  1494.1   2.5   205.4  235.4  9.2
Persanent Warehouses          0.0   90.0  90.0  60.0  240.0  913.6   1.3    60.0  180.0  12.0
Inputs (Sorgou)               0.0  269.5  342.0  322.0  932.5 3160.8   5.2   801.q  130.5  0.0
Animal Traction               0.0  247.7  262.9  343.7  954.3  2896.1   4.8   396.0  458.4   0.0
Boko Training Center          0.0   39.1   8.5   3.0   50.6  171.5   0.3    30.2   20.4  0.4
Seed Production               0.0   96.9  80.5  45.1  212.5  720.3   1.2   120.1   92.4  5.8
0.0  924.7 960.7  845.3 2730.6 9256.4  15.3  1613.6  1117.1  27.4
B.RESEARCH
Foodcrop                      0.0  308.3  195.4  152.0  655.7  2222.8   3.7   305.1   M0.6 21.7
Cotton                       21.1  137.9  89.1  87.2  335.3  1136.5   1.9   202.5  132.7  7.4
21.1  446.1  284.5  239.2  991.0 3359.3   5.6   507.6  493.3  29.2
C.COOPERATIVE DLVELOPIElt
Functional Literacy           0.0    8.6  11.0  16.0   35.6  120.7   0.2    26.7    8.9   0.0
Food. N'kting t Village Fund   0.0   51.9  77.6  72.5  202.0  684.6   1.1    59.3  142.7  0.0
Foodcrop Price looitoring     0.0   23.0  23.0  23.0   69.0  233.9   0.4    15.0   54.0  0.0
0.0   93.4  111.6  111.5  306.5  1039.1   1.7   100.9  205.6  0.0
sn-Fonds Development         52.1   41.9  46.9  71.2  212.2  719.2   1.2   137.9   74.3  1.9
veIls                         0.0   4536  19.9  20.7   96.1   m.0   0.5    58.7   27.4  12.1
Environmental Protection      0.0   61.6  29.6  31.3  122.5  415.2   0.7    79.5   42.9   3.4
52.1  149.1  96.4  123.2  420.8  1426.4   2.4   276.2  144.6  17.3
E.RIRAL ROADS                    0.0  472.3  355.9  35.9  1184.0 4013.6   6.7   866.1  317.9  35.3
F. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPEIlT
CARDER Borgow                46.8  657.0 569.8  519.2  1792.8  6077.4  10.1  1092.3  700.5 52.1                £
SONAPIA I Stabilization Fund  76.2  389.8 334.0 325.7  1124.7 3912.7   6.3   987.2  138.5  5.5
Internal Audit               38.7   71.1  71.1  31.4  212.4  719.9   1.2   119.4   93.0  4.3
Accounting & Fin. Training    0.0   57.4  50.1   0.0  107.5  364.3   0.6    89.7   17.9  1.0
161.7  1174.4 1025.1 876.3 3237.4 10974.3  18.2  2298.6  949.9 62.9
6.STUDlES & AUDITS             298.8  240.0  124.8  61.2  730.8 2477.3   4.1   657.7   73.1  0.0
H.COTTON STABILIZATION SUWPORT        2200.0   0.0   0.0 2200.0 7457.6  12.4   330.0  1870.0 529.0
I.FINANCIAL RESTRUCTIJRINS       0.0 6000.0  .0.0   0.0 6080.0 20339.0  33.7          0.0  6000.0  0.0
BaSE COSTS                   533.7 11690.0 2950.9 2618.5 17901.2 60343.0 100.0  6640.8 11161.4 701.1
Physical Contingenties       28.9  465.4 213.9  192.8  900.9  3054.0   5.1   482.3  415.7 66.7
Price Contingencies          33.9  482.5  322.9 316.2  1155.2 3916.1   6.5   684.8  470.6 52.9
Total Increnmntal Costs        596.4 12637.8 3495.7 3127.4 19857.3 67313.0         7807.9 12050.6 920.7



BECWS 6Mm NM DEVELWIIE PISECnT
ESTIITED DISRI9    T SCIEELE
(SuR illint)
IDA FY ad              Estimate byi Cuuatine                                                        DISBURSEMENT  PROFILE
hwttrs Ending          hart                                                                             uwftno   -W     oms
-      III                  0.0          0.0                                       14
IV            ~~~~1.0       1.0                                       13
jygy                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12
-        1                  0.2           1.1                                       "- I 
II                 2.1           3.2                                       to
III                 1.1            3
IV                  1.9          4.2
-        1                  1.3          7.5                                        ,
II                 1.2           9.7                                                     oD
III                 1.0           9.7                             -.-
IV                  1.2         10.9
I                 0.6          11.4
II 1.1                          12.6            
III                 0.3          12.9                                        'nt'   tt teI '"            t'W I   U .              I   o.e; a
IV                  1.0         13.6                                                         o      ,t
192
-        1                  0.3         14.1
II                 0.9          15.0
III                 0.2          15.2
IV                 0.7          15.9
a)  ssuimg Credit wffectivnms Narch 199
(b) Two historical profile  were used to estimte disbrseomt;
Th e t Africa legion IWO & IDA structural Adjustmet Loan
profile for the disbremt of the Cotton Sectwr program
conptet of the project; ad the  emis  emral profile
oodified to reflect the fat that it is a tree-ye  project.



=110
LIUX maoo RUmuu DKVAI iCSc
~ oZus.am CBAW or c_s
Ulytelo.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Divietion  Division                             DiiinAietto                       liimCnifnen
r  erl t   I                             iS                           ISot
---Inmtto S*ecrtion                   Seto
|                      I     '~I  ..iefpost.                                                                              . I  I
Costrais   uAgentt   Aoe    r  tstat   t        t d e            l'Exploton     doSent                           e de
a*t Finaacter          Productio n      Unltsi TodusttielUs c            val lultion Itncom
8 rtce           rServce dec               Seretlc  de                        Se    dce        Servle do S"
S rw2cc    nnsact r           ~~Tntrzatc at             ptud"*t        Dou-t   ILtton        nquatec*8:t,    at de l'EwFlu tion
dXicC _ *~~~Lt6 Cotblta_C ec  t                _Sgcth&                            eUlot u  S tb  sttl tluec  Intetrn*
_ I | | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Division                                          11 IDlvtloln 
Ottlolon   D1tialon  Dtttatn    l   l l          l              | ~~~~Division  |IAli_ ntatlon|  Division   ||Conditlenus    tI
Actlon          de            y or_ tten | Div1 ten ||Dt on DIV                          Reebcrche      *  t outritfon   |taux  Peorti   ProduStc  
COOD4r t1  Pachas         * Vttstl.  ICneRrlI               lv8°116Dve lop I|Appliq"#*   I    tCh-* s |I                                 icolec       
du D&VlOppet
r  -   1l             118¢t~~~Setift                              ,,,  ISectio,-,n
8setion Action                           Is                                                         A   otr1       |II II I ^ t et ton I   S ctlen I    Settlone
Coopkartive at                                               S   to            rdtt           te    ection    1      ction  e  t uatritlen  zaIE2X. Forsts I Ivul"117ricton etl
IAlDh betlsatlenlItenneI|   etol a I    t  aeI    *le Rural                                                           o   ehoI|plo I!t Chas#    I   ICultur ttl 
|Chet SouJ-Seeteur|
| Cef ote Action l |Chef ote | -l        hfposte
| Coopr tlt  t   |   |   ^ux to@t$| L  Chef Post* |  |     |Cnelr|             |   tndt|          |lfnalon at             |      |
Ilbibtsa tton       I*t Chaases  I   _Eew8             1    |     |Coop6ratid I                          INtrltlen aloF  
| Bet deI     Aj8 nt d                 |  5 a8ent dell    |            Agent de            A Igent de    I             0ti 
Vulp riestton              It Vlaritattonl  I  Vulgarist ^          | Vul8 rt tlion|   Valgarltlton ||Vlzrlaatlon|
IAarlco           I       hrole        I     -mLE                    1- l94 el  AI  I  gioe | lhrel         I  grico          I



-85-
Annex 3-6
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OP BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Technical Recommendations
Intensification     Yield
Crop           Level          kalha           Technical Recommendation
Cotton         0          MC  750-1150        Insufficient respect of crop
OC  900-1250       husbandry practices; 120 kglha
of NPK + 40 kg/ha of Urea, five
insecticide applications at
12.5 I/ha
I          MC  900-1300       Adoption of recommended crop
OC 1100-1400       husbandry practices; 150 kg/ha
of NPK + 40 kglha of Urea. Six
to seven insecticide
applications at 15 lha
_I         MC 1050-1450       All recommended crop husbandry
OC 1200-1600       practices; 180 kg/ha of NPK +
40 kg/ha of Urea, six to seven
insecticide treatments at
15 1/ha
Improved
Maize (TZB)    0          MC 1300             Insufficient application of
OC 1400            recommended crop husbandry
practices; 50 kg/ha of Ammo-
nium Phosphate + 50 kg/ha of
Urea
MC 1600            Adoption of recommended crop
OC 1700-1800       husbandry practices; seed
treatment; 75 kg/ha of
Amonium phosphate and
75 kg/ha of Urea
II         MC 1900-2000       Application of all recommended
OC 2000-2200       crop husbandry practices; seed
treatment; 100 kg/ha of
Ammonium phosphate and
100 kg/ha of Urea
Sorghum        0          MC  850-900         Insufficient adoption of crop
OC  900-950        husbandry practices; no
fertilizer



-86-                      mAnnex 3-6
Page 2 of 2
1          HC  900-1000       Adoption of recommended crop
OC 1000-1050       husbandry practices; seed
treatmentt comes after cotton
in crop rotation
II         MC  950-1150       Adoption of all recommended
OC 1000-1250       crop husbandry practices;
seed treatment comes after
cotton in crop rotation;
50 kg/ha of Urea
Groundnuts     0          HC  700-800         Insufficient adoption of crop
OC  700-8006       husbandry practices; no seed
treatment and no fertilizer;
some seed selection
I          MC  800-850        Adoption of recommended crop
oc  850-900        husbandry practices; seed
selection and treatment;
respect of cropping density;
no fertilizer
-1         HC  850-1200       Adoption of all recommended
OC 1150-1200       crop husbandry practices;
seed selection and treatment;
retpect of cropping density;
100 kg/ha of TSP (Triple Super
Phosphate)
Traditional                                   50 kg/ha of Urea at intensifi-
Cereals (mixed cropping)                      cation level II
Note:     MC - Manual Cultivation
OC - Oxen Cultivation



Annex 3-7
-    -                          Page 1 of 4
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area. Yield and Production Assumptions
The area currently cultivated in the various crops and their
production have been estimated using ten farm model-types (four for the
extreme North and three each for the North and South). These area and
production figures are given as PYO in the summary Table 1 below. Given the
financial crisis facing the cotton sector, evolution of cultivated areas,
yields and production for the various crops is uncertain. For purposes of
analysing the economic effects of the proposed project, three possible
scenarios were considered: (a) that the proposed project goes ahead as
planned and external donors help the Benin Government and farmers in
financing the projected deficits on the cotton account (Base Case); (b) all
field level activities of the proposed project go ahead as planned but that
external donors do not participate in financing the deficits on the cotton
account i.e. an analysis that considers only the rural development component
of the project (Alternative Case); and (c) that the project does not go ahead
(without project). The following are the principal assumptions used in the
three cases. In all cases, the main effect is assumed to be on cotton areas
and production.
With Pro1ect (Base and Alternative Cases)
In the with project situation under both cases, extension coverage
of the Borgou Province is expected to expand, incremental inputs would be
available and hence both area and yields are expected to increase assuming
that the financial situation of the cotton sector does not lead to a dramatic
reduction of price or a disruption in the supply of non-incremental inputs.
in the with project situation therefore total area cultivated of all crops in
the province is expected to expand by about 20% with cotton increasing by
about 332 during the life of the project. Average yields for cotton are
expected to go up by about 11%. The yield developments are based on the
tecbnical themes described in Annex 3-6
Without Project (Base Casej
In the bass case, it is assumed that it is extremely unlikely that
Government can easily finance the deficits in the cotton sector, without the
project. In this scenario also Government is unlikely to implement the
cotton sector reform program in its entirety resulting in persistent deficits
even with improvements in world market prices. When this happens there would
be a disruption in the supply of non-incremental inputs and also producer
prices may have to fall. Without project also, there would be a disruption
in extension services in the Borgou province. Under thess conditions, we
have assumed that though cotton area without project may remain at the PYO
level, there would be a decrease of about 20% in cotton yields.



- 08 -                         Annex 3-7
Page 2 of 4
Without Pro-iect (Alternative Scenario)
In this scenario only the Rural Developmant component of the
project is analyzed. The basic assumption here is that Government would
somehow be able to finance the deficits in the cotton sector and proceed with
the reforms in the sector in such a way that the without project situation is
not adversely affected by the financial problems in the cotton sector. Thus
the without project production is assumed to remain constant at the PYO level
in this scenario.
Table 1 gives a summary of area, yield and production for all crops
under the with project scenario.  Table 2 below gives a summary of the area,
yield and production developments for cotton under the three scenarios. In
the without project situation, area and production under crops other than
cotton are assumed to remain at the PYO level.



- 89 -
Annex 3-7
Table 1
Page 3 of 4
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND DOR8OU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUNMARY OF AREA AND PRODUCTION FRON THE PROJECT
FARNERS PER INTENSIFICATION LEVEL                                     I
PYO     PYI     PY2      PY3     PY4+      I                PYO     PYI     PY2      PY3     PY4t
LEVEL 0                    51640   44160   37760   33090   28940    1
LEVEL I                        0    8480   115F0   14350   17500    I TOTAL PRODUCTION (TONS)--PROJECT
LEVELII                                 0    4380    7280    8180    1 ------ - ---------- - -------- -
---- -   -- - --- ----  ----- -  ------    I COTTON         72,447  77,558  85,928  97,442 109,400
51640   52640   53690   54720   54620    t NAIZE           38,743  43,658  49,232  53,509  53,509
I SOR6HUH      33,416  34,906  36,797  38,300  38,300
TOTAL CULTIVATED AREA (NA)                                            I NILET         14,567  15,035  15,547  15,987  15,987
-------- - -     -------                                              t NIE8E          8,414   9,172   9,994  10,658  10,658
COTTON                    60,940  63,803  67,465  75,245  82,150    I EROUNDNUTS    8,485   9,563  11,450  12,809  12,809
AIZE                      10,301  12,186  13,876  15,86  16,086    I YAN            202,160 205,845 210,269 214,596 214,596
NAIZE-NANIOC              11,274  11,444  11,614  11,779  11,779    1 NANIOC          54,195  55,595  56,945  58,195  58,495
NAIZE-SOR6HUN-NIEBE       18,943  19,513  20,093  20,601  20,911    1
NAIZE-SOR6HUN             14,303  14,664  15,055  15,443  15,413    1
SORSHUN                   11,574  11,820  12,091  12,359  12,329    1 INCRENENTAL PRODUCTION (TONS)--PROJECT
SOREHUH-NIE8E              4,289   4,419   4,559   4,699   4,699    1 -        -       -  -- -  --  ------   -
SORSHUN-NILLET             8,B88   9,092   9,256   9$4W0   9,308    I COTTON                  19,056  27,425  38,939  50,897
MILLET                    12,432  12,704  12,943  13,169  13,029  ,  NAIZE                     4,915  10,489  14,766  14,766
NILLET-NIEBE                 762     806      881     917      907    I SOR6HUN                 1,489   3,380   4,884   4,884
6ROUNDNUTS                11,752  12,793  14,098  15,131  15,406    t NILLET                     468      979   1,419   1,419
YAN                       20,308  20,550  20,890  21,225  21,225    I NIEBE                      758   1,580   2,243   2,243
YAI-NIEBE                  3,478   3,675   3,862   4,043   4,063    t 6ROUNDNUTS               1,078   2,965   4,324   4,324
HANIOC                    10,839  11,119  11,389  11,639  11,699    t VAN                      3,685   8,109  12,436  12,436
---------- --- ----- - --- - -- --- ----   *t NANIOC                1,400   2,150   4,000   4,300
200,083 209,588 218,071 230,842 239,002    1
TOTAL COTTON AREA PER LEVEL OF INTENSIFICATION (HA)
LEVEL 0                    60940   50503   42118   37750   34080
LEVEL I                            13300   17203   23200   31525
LEVEL 11                                     8145   14295   16545
TOTAL                      60940   63803   67465   75245   82150



-i9a0 x3-7
Table 2
Page 4 of 4
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND DORMOU RURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
SUIHARY OF COTTON PRODUCTION UNDER THE THREE CASES
VITH PROJECT COTTON (BASE & ALTERNATE CASES)
PYO     PYI      PY2      PY3      PY4    PY5*
AREA (HA.)          60940   63803    67465   75245   82150   82150
YIELD ITONSMNA)     1.200    1.216    1.274    1.295    1.332    1.332
PODUCTION (TONS)   73128   77558    85928    97442   109400   109400
WITHOUT PROJECT COTTON (BASE CASE)
AREA (HA.)          60940   60940   60940   60940   60940   60940
YIELD (TONS/NA)     1.200    0,O60    0.960    0.960    0.960    0.960
PRODUCTION (TONS)   13128    58502   58502   59802   58502   59502
WITHOUT PROJECT COTTON IALTERNATIVE CASE-RD CONPONENT ONLY)
AREA (HA.)          60940   60940    60940   60940   60940    60940
YIELD ITONS/HA)     1.200    1.200    1.200    1.200    1.200    1.200
PRODUCTION (TONS)   73129   73128   73128   73128   73128   73128
CUULATIVE INCRENENTAL PRODUCTION (COTTON--TONS)
BASE CASE               0    19056   27425   38939   50897   50997
ALTERNATIVE CASE        0    4430    12900   24314   3272   36272



-91-                                           Anex 3-8
Page 1 of 2
PEOPL'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECU              _YR          FEW  C
ECoIC maIls(  CAN)
0       1      2       3       4       5       6      7   6-20
NITINIWT PRJECT (CwTToN)
AREA                        60 406046946966960980406 Z 09 NI6N 4
YIEL.OITON/H                1.200  0.96    0.60   0.940   0.960   0.960   0.960   0.960   0.960
PROIUCTION(TulN9            1312   SUS10   58510  50510  50519  58o0   5510  53510  5810
111111 OMECT (COTTOIN
oEA                                 6603   67465   52       2150  32150  82150  62150  82150
YIL(uT/JL)                  1.20   1.216   .M4   1.295   1.2   1.2   1.3    1.2   1.332
PROIUCTIITINS)              73128  77584  959    97442  109424  10924  109424  10424  109424
IICEITAl PO1N.                     0   19074  27440    9     5914  50914  50914  514  5914
SAINE  (TN)                             415   1046   14766  14166  14166   14766  I47         14766
NIllET/MUR    ITON)                     1957   439    603   603   6            63      6       6303
=;hhiS  ITI)                            1078   2965   4324   4324   4324   4324   4324   4324
viEmIT (TIM)                             758   1580   2243   2243   2243   223   2243   22
FJ   TE PRICE
COTTO                          70718  109752  106013  10278   112249  122    133145  144493  156432
iE                             42220  44670  4930   30   54410  50   55710  5630    57050
IMIMT                          40470  43930  4769   5170  5310   S40  55              57480  50
NIEIE                                 200000  200000 200000  200000 200000 20          0000 20 000
801911                         45410  46650   50700  55970  5M440  57050  5760   58300  5B940
VILUE OF IICR. PROMm.
COTTU(NR6BW)                          2093.5 2909.0  4000.6  5715.0  6229.0 677.89 735.7  7964.5
minE                                   219.6  513.2  794.4  803.4  913.0  622.6  832.5  342.4
DUOUUUUS                                47.4  141.4  223.9  229.9  235.9  24.1  248.5  255.i
NIEOE                                  151.6  316.0  446.6  448.6  4486   448.6  448.6  440.6
_ORHU                                   91.3  221.0  352.1  355.7  359.6  363.6  367.5  371.5
2603.3 4100.7  5019.6 7552.6 8086.1 9655.8          8 .8  902.2
IWlUS WITHOUIT ROJECT-MROU; millioi CFAF)
PK                            M3.0  807.0  830.3  879.8  8.8  69.9  909.2  919.5  930.0
UREA                          266.9  298.2  35.7  346.1   345    344.2  3436  34 .0  343.0
DRP                            56.0   59.2   62.0   65.1   66.2   67.3   68.5   69.6   70.8
IIOECTICIDES                 1333.1  1333.2  1333.2  1333.2  133.2  1333.2  133.2  1333.2  1333.2
LAWOR                        943.9  9044.1  9044.1  9044.1  9044.1  9044.1  9044.1  9044.1  9044.1
OTHER COSTS82O,OoF/8         4001.7  4001.8  4001.9  4001.6  4001.8 4001.6  401.8  4001.8  401.9
15884.5 15633.6 15577.1 15670.3 15679.7 15689.7 15700.5 15711.3 15723.0



Annex 3-8
Page 2 of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND O8R6U RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS BASE CASE)
0       1       2       3       4       5       6       7   9-20
NITH PROJECT SITUATION-- NITH STABILIZATION (BORGIU)
AREA COTON LEVEL 0 (HA.)       69578  50436   43876   40730  37284   37294   37294   37284   37284
AREA COTON LEVEL I (HA.)               13367   15558   21329   29041   29041   29041  2941   29041
AREA COTGN LEYEL II (NA.)                       8031   13197   15826   15826   15926   15926   15926
69578   63803  67465 75245.9 82150.9 92150.9 82150.9 8'50.9 82150.9
INPUTS WNITH PROJECT--BOR9OU; sillion CFAF)
NPK                            894.0   609.4  1026.7  1259.4  1419.3  1435.5  1451.8  1468.3  1485.1
UREA (COTTON)                  298.2   313.0  364.5  465.0  508.6  506.8  505.9  505.1  505.1
D;P                             56.0   75.3   98.9   121.0   136.5  138.9  141.1   143.5   145.9
SUPER TRIPLE                                    11.5   20.5   24.5   25.0   25.5   26.0   26.5
INSECTICIDES                  1522.0  1454.2  1579.0  1797.0  1993.3  193.3  1993.3  1993.3  1993.3
LABOR                         N443.  10095.7 10916.3 11634.4 12141.3 12141.3 12141.3 12141.3 12141.3
OTHER COSTS(820000/HA)      4001.7  4171.8 4361.4  4616.9  4790.0  4790.0  4780.0 4710.0  4790.0
TOTAL ON FARN COSTS          16215.7 16999.0 19258.3 19913.2 21003.7 21020.8 21039.1 21057.5 21077.3
INCREMENTAL ON FARI COSTS      331.2  1465.4  2681.3  4242.9  5324.0  5331.1  5338.6  5346.2 5354.2
ASRICUL-URAL DEVELCfNENT               321.7   275.3   134.5     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
RESEARCH                        21.1   446.1   284.5   239.2    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
CI3IPERATIVE DEVELKUPENT                83.4   111.6   111.5     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
ENV. PROTECTION + NELLS                 90.1    33.'    34.8     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPIWENT     121.5   993.3  865.7  751.3  389.5  389.5  399.5  389.5   389.5
STUDIES AND AUDITS               0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
RURAL ROADS                            472.3  355.9  11B4.0   70.0   70.0   70.0   70.0   70.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES           9.3   156.4   125.2   159.6   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9
151.9  2563.4  2051.3 2614.9   489.3   489.3  489.3   499.3   489.3
PROJECT COST W'OUT SUPPORT)    493.0  4028.7  4732.6  6857.8  5B13.3  5820.4  5927.9  5835.5  5943.5
FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURINB               3036.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
COTTON PROGRAM SUPPORT                1194.8    0.0      0.0     0.0
TOTAL COSTS                    493.0  8259.5  4732.6  6957.9  5913.3  5820.4  5027.9  5835.5  5843.5
TOTAL BUEFITS                    0.0  2*03.3  4100.7  5819.6  7552.6  8086.1  8655.0  9253.8  92.2
NET BENEFITS                  -493.0 -5656.2  -631.9 -1039.2  1t39.2  2265.7  2927.9  3419.3  4039.6
EC.RATE OF RETURN                    SUESS    ERR
1.0 0.25484



93                                   Annex 3-9
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
S4E CAEE
10.77
0
700      00    W90       1000    1100    1200       10.0    140.0
S OF WPPWML VALUE
o  s ;w;  +  CO



,_ s MS / N I G F R               <           __>,  ~~~N  G E R/
'A _< OAALI  F! N    NIGERIA                            \                                     N     GE             /
,      r              8    ~~~~~B U R K I N A  S.                                   N        IL
|- /    AR-                       < .                                                         / tm         
L EUIE/ fflA
DIVO-RS  'I3 I                                                     SAt'=/                           N I G E R I A
A TC   t           A  T A  CO    R  A                         .1
GAO                                 )    Konteomo    -  ^0l         
P. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.o
)        TANi3JIS E                                                        B (O           GA     ikk
/   KoUII       \Toolwomlo o,                         )                 f        J                        I
E.
LLoutombR~~    ~         ~~~~~                                                        B E N I     N  K*
BORGOU RURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
0]    SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
D-i                                                                       Ninci ? pal PoYds
ThO 00,04BelVt et i \sA'0           DoObo-Toloh    \S o&go AIA         X    ol      r 
rears aid A eXdi*vON for 0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ntrntina Arpt
On - step r0 no, oepi coie
Ortennet0oe'Th10000 CApOOAOInernaionlOBundrie
A-n 4h O 00040ER 0                                                                       0n 40Co60r. 
20                                        M2                               s                  -0
9-.      b-Xi P.P- b                                                                _  
T.    O - G O II                                             A-
Z'h a.*o§    N I                      N       d
Adg-t~ ~ Wf\us                                                                    JPEMNA  CEI
LCMi                                                       r/7/    of      BenoS
r                      pDowid            /           O         g                                   Pf incipol Roods                8-~~~~2



BENIN                            2-
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                NG
Project Area with Principal Centers and Location of Development
*     NewGhkI
Existing Esfablishimnts!
*      Cottr      -i.m
CARDER Gwoe\                                                                                       t-o; 
I      MORAC Agrialirol Resardc Center
,      Provineial CARDER Trainigt Center                                                                    Rt
3      9iSeed Prodtion Fo rm                                                                    
0      Animal Trodion Training Center
-        Primyar Roads                                   BURKINA                                                                          ILLE
Secondary Roads                                    FASO
Tracks
-i--   Railrood
*    Prwince Capitals
@     District Capitals
Province Boundaries
Intemnational Soudaries                                                   \ 
-~ ~~~~~~~~90
Tan gsita ,
s ,@ / \ g tA~~~~~~~~~NENt                                                                  *Pawi(o 
, / / / N~~~~~~~~~6honko}                                                         ow *rER8  R         Ki.         ALAtour  
N,
T O G O 0 2 /                                  loS ;T4- 4 7 <-- -
! i so Z PstiR ~~~~~~'D                                                                       N  I G  E R I A
9.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~g
z   I  r    /A Iet¢Dsia,te4t   '  TCHAO U               i       BURKN
tO20   20    3  0       s0                                   d/-ti bi
KZet Miers
r.  7b Ca   kbt.                                    3I  OF GUN,EA



