Doc==n of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13444
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1877-BEN)
AUGUST 15, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATESI!
1986             US$1.00          = CFAF 346
1987             US$1.00    = CFAF 301
1988             US$1.00    = CFAF 298
1989             US$1.00          _ CFAF 319
1990             US$1.00    = CFAF 270
1991             US$1.00          = CFAF 282
1992             US$1.00    = CFAF 265
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
PROJECT YEAR
September 1- October 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO            Central Bank of the West African States
BOAD             West African Development Bank
CAA              Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (Debt Service Agcncy)
CARDER           Centre d'Action Regionale pour Ie D6veloppemcnt Rural
(Regional Rural Developmcnt Agency)
CFD              Caisse Fran,caise de D6veloppement
(Fornerly Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CFDT             Compagnie Fran5aise pour Ic D&veloppement des Textiles
CLCAM            Caisse Locale de Crddit Agricole Mutuel
(Local Savings and Loan Cooperative)
CNCA             Agricultural Credit National Bank
COBEMAG          Cooperative Beninoise de Materiel Agricole (Cooperative for Agricultural Equipment)
CRCAM            Caisse Regionale de Crddit Agricole Mutucl (Regional Savings and Loan Cooperative)
DEP              Direction des Etudes et de la Planification (Studies and Planning Directorate)
FSS              Fonds de Stabilisation et de Soutien (Support and Stabilisation Fund)
GV               Groupement Villageois (Village Groups)
[FAD             International Fund for Agricultural Development
MDR              Ministry of Rural development (forncrly Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action)
ONC              Cereal Marketing Board
OPEC             Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
RCF              Recherche Cuton Fibre (Lint Cotton Research)
SONAPRA          Societc Nationale pour la Production Agricole (National Agency for Agricultual Production)
SRDR             Scrvicc des Routes et des Dessertes Ruralcs (Service for Roads and Feeder Roads)
URP              Units de Recherche et de Production (Production and Research Unit)
1/ The parity of the CFAF with the French Franc was fixed at 50/1 throughout the project. It has been
realigned to 100/1 on January :2, 1994.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
August 15, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Benin
Second Bormou Rural Development Project (Credit 1877-BEN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Benin - Second Borgou Rural
Development Project (Credit 1877-BEN) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II was
prepared by the Borrower. A copy of the report was sent to the cofinanciers (CFD, BOAD and
IFAD), but no comments were received.
This project was prepared and appraised at a time of historically low international
cotton prices. Its objectives were to continue the improvements in agricultural productivity made
under the first Borgou Project and to reorganize and financially rebabilitate the cotton sub-sector
to ensure its long-run viability. The project included rural development components (extension
services, credit, and infrastructural support); and institutional support to the cotton subsector
(strengthening management and accounting systems of the major organizations, establishment of a
Stabilization Fund, and changes in financial and marketing procedures). The objectives have been
met. Production and yields have met or exceeded appraisal targets for all the major crops, cotton
ginning yields have increased and cotton quality has improved. The latter improvements, together
with institutional restructuring and cost containment measures, have contributed to the
achievement of financial viability by the cotton sector. Sustainability is considered likely, and
institutional development has been substantial. The ERR has been re-estimated at 29%
compared to 25 % at appraisal and the outcome of the project is judged to have been highly
satisfactory.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation. An
audit is planned.
Attachment
|This document has a rstricted distribution and may be useod by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1877-BEN)
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                                             ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity                                                   1
B.    Background                                                         1
C.    Project Objectives and Description                                2
D.    Project Design and Organization                                   3
E.    Project Implementation                                            4
F.    Project Results                                                   5
G.    Project Sustainability                                            9
H.    Bank's Performance                                                9
I.     Borrower's Performance                                           10
J.     Project Relationships                                            10
K.    Consulting Services                                               10
L.    Project Documentation and Data                                    10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                            11
PART In: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Credits                                              15
2.     Project Timetable                                                16
3.     Credit Disbursement                                              17
4.     Project Implementation                                           18
5.     Project Costs and Financing                                      21
6.     Project Results                                                  22
A.    Direct Benefits                                            22
B.    Economic Impact                                            23
C.    Studies                                                    24
7.     Status of Covenants                                              25
8.     Use of Bank Resources                                            26
A.    Staff Inputs                                               26
B.    Missions                                                   27
ANNEXES
I.     Economic Analysis
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BEMNN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1877-BEN)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Borgou Rural
Development Project, for which Credit 1877-BEN in the amount of SDR 15.9 million was
approved on February 16, 1988. The Credit was closed on September 30, 1993, nine months
behind schedule. The credit was fully disbursed and the last disbursement took place in February
1, 1994.
Part I and m  were prepared by a consultant and revised by staff of the
Agricultural Operations Division of the Occidental and Central Africa Department of the Africa
Regional Office. Part II has been prepared by the Borrower.
Preparation of the PCR was done within six months after the Credit was closed.
It is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development Credit Agreement; The
CFD Loan Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank, the Borrower and
the implementation agencies; internal Bank memoranda; reports prepared by the implementation
agencies; discussions with representatives of the Bank, the Borrower and the co-financing
agencies; and various reports by consultants.






-U-
- 11. -
PROJECT COMPLk-7ION REPOR
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1877-BEN)
Evaluation Summary
project Objectives
1.    The principal objective of the project was to consolidate the gains made under the first
Borgou Project with specific emphasis on productivity improvements at the farm level for both
cotton and food crops; preparation of medium-term restructuring and development program for
the rural sector; and reorganization and financial rehabilitation of the cotton sub-sector to
improve its economic and financial viability.
ImIement         Exprience
2.    The IDA credit became effective on schedule but the original closing date was extended
by nine months to allow one IDA-financed component to be completed. Most key components
were successfilly implemented by the four main executing agencies: the Borgou CARDER for
rural development, the FSS and SONAPRA for the rehabilitation of the cotton sub-sector and
the Ministry of Rural Development for conducting a review of the agricultural sector policies.
3.   Implementation experience for the rehabilitation of the cotton sub-sector has been the
most successful, with SONAPRA and FSS becoming among the best performing institutions in
West Africa for the organization of cotton production, processing and marketing. Through
internal restructuring and cost containment measures SONAPRA managed to recover and
maintain profitability since 1989/90 until today in spite of depressed world market cotton prices
and a depreciating dollar. Farmers responded promptly to the rehabilitation of the 'fllibre with
increased production and productivity. The CARDER was also very effective in putting in place
a performing extension system to assist producers respond to a better environment.
4.    The Borrower participated actively in project preparation and carried out the preliminary
studies that were required. It worked hard to meet effectiveness conditions and provided
competent staff for the project. However, near the end of the project, unjustified staff changes
in SONAPRA have raised controversies. Failure of the Government to meet its financial
obligations and provide counterpart funds was a problem throughout project implementation.
However, implementation agencies used their own funds to avoid problems. This may, on the
other hand, have induced the CARDER to favor cotton income generating activities to the
detriment of the organization of food crops.



5.    The delay of some of the rural development components, for the most part not financed
by IDA, resulted in part from credit suspensions from one of the donors arising from
Govemment non-compliance with debt servicing of loans, and the lack of familiarity with the
procedures of some co-lending agencies. The performance of the Bank was satisfactory
especially on the cotton restructuring component. One wealness was the failure to focus early
on rural development activities though this was remedied mid-way through implementation.
Finally, the Bank did not staff its missions with specialists in research as often as perhaps was
warranted. This led to a benign neglect of this component early in the implementation.
Results
6.    The project has been successful in achieving its main objectives. Production and yields
for all crops have met or exceeded appraisal targets except for nieb6 and millet. Cotton ginning
yields have increased from 38% to 42.5% and cotton quality has improved.
7.    Inputs were distributed on time and credit recovery has been about 99%. Women's
activities have been promoted through a successful credit scheme. Village groups (pre-
cooperatives) have been created and are taking increasing responsibilities in primary cotton
marketing. Environmental protection measures are taking root. Institutions have been
strengthened as evidenced by the replacement of expatriate technical assistance in the CARDER
Borgou. FSS has worked well with SONAPRA to improve the performance of the cotton sub-
sector. Industrial technical assistance to SONAPRA has been efficient.
8.    Overall, the impact of the project both at the farm and national levels has been positive.
Revenues from exports of cotton have increased by 160% since the project started despite the
trend toward lower world market price, the cash flow of the cotton sub-sector is again positive
after years of heavy losses and tax payments have been considerable. Cotton has been the driving
force behind the agricultural growth of these past years. Farmers' incomes have also increased
with cotton price paid to producers being the highest in the sub-region. The project's ERR is
estimated at 29.2%.
SustainabiUly
9.    Project sustainability appears good though it can be affected by: (i) uncertainty over the
future functions of the CARDERs under the on-going Agricultural Services Restructring
Project. This raises the problems of recurrent costs financing and coordination between the
central services of MDR and the regional services of the restructured CARDERs; and (ii) the
independence and autonomy that FSS and SONAPRA will continue to enjoy in the absence of
a well defined project and the constant presence of lenders which has served as deterrent to
undue political interference.
Findings and Lessons Lemed
10.   The project has been successful despite its complexity in terns of the number of
components and lending and executing agencies involved. The components or sub-components



- iv -
that have performed poorly although not affecting the overall positive project impact are i) the
rural roads construction and bottomland development program financed by BOAD which has not
really started yet and which was affected by lengthy procedure, cumbersome and poorly
understood conditionalities and little supervision coordination; ii) the establishment of a common
central accounting system in MDR for the CARDERs was not accomplished mainly because of
the unsatisfactory performance of the technical assistance and the setting-up of a separate system
by the CARDER Borgou itself.
11.  It appears that even complex projects can be successfully implemented, despite some
coordination problem, provided that i) a clear framework is put in place to respond to well
identified and documented constraints affecting a complex sector; ii) the project is properly
designed with a clear consensus on the need for action; iii) there is strong Government
commitment; (iv) roles and responsibilities for the implementing agencies involved are clearly
defined; (v) a proper institutional and policy framework, including sound but manageable
conditionalities and an adequate incentive structure for the farmers is put in place; (iv) strong
supervision and coordination among the lenders is ensured; and (v) there is an appropriate
selection of both national staff and technical assistance. Satisfactory performance of extension
services appears to have played an essential role in the achievement of project objectives.
Nevertheless, as the project progressed, farmers moving along the intensification process
developed a certain fatigue due to obsolete or unadapted technical messages. Adaptive research
often proved inadequate to maintain the relevancy of the message in line with farmers needs.
12.   The final lesson is taken from the Borgou I PCR because it applies equally to the present
situation:" the key finding of this project is that establishment of the appropriate framework can
elicit the desired production response from farmers . Components which met a felt need of
farmers were successful, while those which did not, such as the bottomlands development,
failed." Bottomlands development appears to have failed again, mainly with respect to unrealistic
targets, while implementation of such technique requires an approach which has to adapt itself
to the organization and implementation capacity of the local community.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1877-BEN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECIIVE
A.   PROJECT IDENTYIT
Project Name            Second Borgou Rural Development Project
Credit Number           1877-BEN
RVP Unit          :     Africa Regional Office
Country                 Republic of Benin
Sector            :     Agriculture
B.   BACKGRQUON
1.    Benin has a population of 4.9 million (1991) growing at an estimated annual rate of
3.2%. Its land area is about 113,000 km2. With an estimated annual per capita income of $410
in 1992, Benin is one of the poorest countries in the world. Urban population growth is
particularly high (about 8 % per annum for Cotonou) and demographic pressure on agricultural
land is acute in the southern part of the country.
2.   In the 1970s, a heavy emphasis was put on the development of industry and physical
infrastructure which absorbed close to 80% of budgetary allocations. Most foreign-owned
businesses were nationalized and many state enterprises created to underpin the official policy
of national control and self-reliance. The first medium term development plan (1977-1980) was
used to further expand the state-owned economy. The economy performed fairly welU during the
late 1970s (average growth of 5% per annum), but mainly thanks to the spill-over effects of the
oil-based prosperity of Nigeria. However, by the early 1980s, falLing world demand for oil and
Nigeria's ensuing economic difficulties forced the Benin Government to reassess its economic
policies. The Government decided to emphasize self-sufficiency in food production and export
promotion to generate foreign exchange. The decade of the 1980s was a period of prolonged
economic difficulty. The economy was unable to ensure the maintenance of the standard of living
of ordinary citizens. By the end of the decade, a vigorous adjustment program has been
introduced with the aim of reducing the size of the public sector and libealizing the economy.
But, the economic strains of the 1980s led to growing political discontent and culminated in the
transition to a multiparty democracy, which was achieved in April 1991.
3.    The provincial rural development agencies (CARDERs) created in 1976, were made
responsible for the organization and promotion of primary agricultural production through the
provision of extension services, agricultural inputs, cooperative and primary marketing services,



- 2 -
agricultural inputs, rural roads maintenance, water and other infrastructure development. The
Bank and other donors supported this regional approach to development. Following an
unsuccessful experience with a rural development project in the Zou and Borgou provinces of
Benin (Cr. 307-BEN, 1972), which was cancelled as a result of institutional difficulties, an
improved policy environment in the late 1970s permitted IDA and the Government of Benin to
proceed with the preparation of two rural development projects in the Zou and Borgou Provinces
(Cr. 1314-BEN and Cr. 1127-1-BEN). The present project was the continuation of the successful
First Borgou Project. It was consistent with the accepted agricultural development policies and
was designed in the context of the preoccupations of the time, which were predominantly
macroeconomic in nature: addressing balance of payments deficits through rehabilitation of the
cotton industry.
C.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPION
4.    Project Objectives. The project's main objectives were to a) consolidate the gains made
under the First Borgou Project with specific emphasis on strengthening farmers' groups and
improving provision of extension services and input supply; b) improve productivity at the farm
level for cash crops (mainly cotton) and food crops; c) prepare a medium-term restructuring and
development program for the rural sector to review the CARDERs' role and efficiency in the
provision of agricultural services; and d) reorganize the financial rehabilitation of the cotton sub-
sector to improve its economic and financial viability.
5.    Project Description. To achieve these objectives, the project had the following
components:
(a) Rural Development: (i) improved extension services for some 50,000 farn families and
intensified training for extension staff in the Borgou Province; (ii) agricultural credit for
the purchase of inputs in the province; (iii) further promotion of animal traction; (iv)
applied foodcrops and cotton research; (v) environmental protection through forestry
programs and prevention of forest fires; (vii) a pilot program for the rehabilitation of 100
ha of bottomlands and construction of 15 village wells for human consumption and 50
small wells for vegetable production; and (viii) rehabilitation and maintenance of about
300 km of feeder roads in the province.
(b) Institution Building: (i) further improvements in the management of the CARDER
Borgou, also extended to Zou and Atacora CARDERs; (ii) strengthening of SONAPRA's
financial management and cost control capability; (iii) establishment of a cotton
Stabilization Fund; (iv) establishment of a central audit, accounting and financial training
unit for the cotton sub-sector as a whole; and (v) studies and consultant services to help
prepare a medium-term restructuring and development program for the rural sector; and
(c) Cotton Sub-Sector Rehabilitation: (i) redefinition of the respective roles of SONAPRA
and the CARDERs around the newly established Stabilization Fund; (ii) changes in the
financial and marketing policies and procedures of the cotton sub-sector; and (iii)



- 3 -
financial restructuring of SONAPRA and the CARDERs to enable them to repay their
debts to each other and the outside economy.
D.   PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
6.    Design. The project design was developed and evolved through appropriate collaboration
and coordination between the Bank, the Government and the other financing agencies. The
preparation mission and report were preceded by nine studies on various aspects of the
agricultural, rural development and cotton activities with a likely impact on the proposed project.
These studies were done through close collaboration between FAO/CP, consultants, the Bank,
other donors and MDRAC's directorate of studies and planning. A FED-livestock project in
Borgou was adequately integrated into project activities.
7.    Finally, the concept and design of the project tried to incorporate the lessons learned in
the implementation of the First Borgou Project and a previous project (Zou-Borgou Cotton
Project, Cr. 307-BEN) in the cotton sub-sector. The project concept finally adopted was
innovative in many respects: it put a much needed emphasis on the role of women in
development, an aspect that was overlooked in the First Borgou Project (Borgou I PCR, para.
20 & 29); the project was conceived as a hybrid-type project that included a sectoral adjustment
component with quick disbursing tranches and conditionalities on policy, institutional and
marketing issues; and it proposed the replacement of the 'forfait system' ('barbme') by an
actual cost system  for the determination of the price of cotton to farmers to remove
inefficiencies.
8.    Organization. Organization of project management involved ten Government agencies.
The CARDER Borgou was the lead agency for project implementation and had overall
responsibility for the coordination of the implementation of rural development activities,
including applied research to be executed by URP at Ina and RCF; feeder road construction and
maintenance to be done through SRDR and credit for animal traction to be channeled through
the CRCAM. The reorganization of the cotton sub-sector was to be implemented through FSS
and SONAPRA, under the overall supervision of the Management Committee of FSS. The sector
review study was to be coordinated by the Planning Unit of MDRAC (DEP). Accounting
training and intemal audit units were to be supervised by MDRAC and involved two additional
CARDERs.
9.    However, despite all this thorough and careful planning and preparation effort, the project
had the following shortcomings: (i) too many components (16) and too many agencies involved
in project implementation (10) and financing (IDA, CFD, IFAD, BOAD), which led to some
coordination problems and delays in the implementation of some components (para. 11); (ii) a
short implementation period of three years, to make it dovetail with the start of the Agricultural
Services Restructuring Project, scheduled for 1991. This failed to take into account possible
delays and the gestation period of some project components such as the bottomlands development
program, research and some rural development activities which cannot be conceived within such
a short time-frame; (iii) the balance between the existing cotton ginning capacity and cotton
production levels was not properly accounted for. Measures undertaken to deal with this



- 4 -
problem, although alleviating some of the short term constraints (expanding storage capacity and
procuring equipment to rehabilitate two factories), have proved insufficient to cope with cotton
expansion in the medium term. However, it must be recognized that it may have been difficult
to predict such a booming response of cotton production to the rehabilitation effort of the sub-
sector. Excess production over capacity is now estimated at about 30,000 tons and expansion of
ginning capacity is presently underway; (iv) the problem of Government counterpart funds was
not properly handled despite the bad experience of Borgou I. No effort seems to have been made
to ascertain that the Government could pay its share of project financing as planned; (v) finally,
the financing of some clearly identified needs (working capital for the Boko training center,
para. 22) was not provided in the project.
E.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
10.   Credit Effectiveness and Pioject Start-up. The project was appraised in May 1986. The
credit was approved in February 1988, signed in April and became effective in December 1988.
All these actions were basically on schedule when compared to the final project brief. The credit
was closed on September 30, 1993, nine months behind schedule.
11.  Implementaion. The good performance of the project in relation to the achievement of
its main objectives (see section F), means that project implementation was, on balance, a
success. However, there were some difficulties and shortcomings. In particular, implementation
was delayed for the components financed by BOAD and IFAD. In the case of BOAD which
financed feeder roads, bottomlands development, wells and environmental protection, delays
were initially due to the suspension of BOAD disbursements because of Government arrears and
failure to submit required CVs for the bottomland development specialist. Subsequently, the road
component was delayed because of coordination problems with SRDR. After its late start, the
bottomlands development component has been hampered by a lack of farmers' interest due to
the high investment cost required in terms of labor, insufficient coordination with the credit
component and the competitive advantages of cotton and sorghum over rice, the main
bottomlands crop. Implementation of the feeder road component is still at its inception and that
of the bottomlands development was delayed by about two years. Extensions of credit's closing
dates have been granted in both cases. The implementation of the research component under
IFAD financing was delayed by more than two years because of the lack of familiarity of project
management with WFAD procedures.
12.   The construction of extension centers (IDA financed) has been delayed because of the
CARDER restructuring program and by non-compliance of the first selected contractor to the
established schedule. It is the only IDA financed component which was not achieved in time.
However, extension of the credit's closing date permitted completion of the works.
13.   The institutional development component has been well implemented with the exception
of the central financial services. The technical assistance provided for the internal audit and
accounting unit proved unsatisfactory (para. 28). The cotton sub-sector rehabilitation program
was well implemented and on time.
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - -   - - - - - - -



14.   Project implementation was facilitated by close supervision and the flexibility shown by
the lenders. However, the failure of the Government to provide counterpart funds was potentially
project-threatening. The capacity of the CARDER-Borgou and SONAPRA to generate and use
their own resources to make up for the Government shortcomings permitted to compensate for
Government's default.
15. One activity not planned or foreseen by the project was undertaken and financed by the
CARDER Borgou and has been successful: the settlement of young unemployed school
graduates. One practical training center was opened by the CARDER in 1990 to train for a fee
about 12 technical school graduates each year in agriculture and livestock practices. After a 13-
month period, the youngsters are given a loan to start their own farm. This has helped alleviate
the unemployment problem.
16.   Procurement. Procurement was handled by three main entities: the CARDER-Borgou,
SONAPRA and the central planning unit of MDRAC. Input supplies for producers were
available throughout the project. Bidding and award of contracts were usually made in a timely
manner. Problems encountered concerned for the most part the lack of familiarity of the
executing agencies with the procedures of some of the co-financing agencies (BOAD, IFAD).
17. Priect Costs. Total project costs were estimated at CFAF 19.9 billion (US$67.3 million)
including implicit taxes and duties. IDA contributed to about US$21 million, CCCE to US$21
million, IFAD to 10.5 million, BOAD to US$7 million, the Government to US$6.6 million and
beneficiaries contribution estimated at US$1.2 million.
18.   Disbursements and Credit Allocation. Disbursements are provided in Part m Section 3.
On February 1, 1994, following the extension of the credit closing date, all credit funds had
been disbursed in the total amount of US$21,9 million. This represent an increase of about 4%
mainly coming from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the US$/SDR. No particular or unusual
problems were encountered in this area. Total disbursements at completion of the IDA Credit
are estimated at CFAF 14.4 billion (US$ 48.7 million). The difference is due mainly to
unfinished components under on-going credits and grants (Part M-5).
19.   PrQject Risks. The main risks identified at appraisal were the cotton growers' likely
reaction to a possible reduction in producer prices and the risk of soil deterioration due to
reduced fallow or extension into areas with inadequate soils. Initial cotton price reduction has
not discouraged farmers, due in part to the lack of attractive substitution crops. There has been
no noticeable soil erosion as a result of project activities. One risk that was not properly
addressed is that of excess seed cotton production over existing ginning capacity. CFD has
agreed to finance a new ginning factory but it will not become operational before 1985/86.
P.    PZoject Results
20. P=ject Objectives. The results of four years of project implementation indicate that the
project has achieved or surpassed most of its objectives: foodcrop and cotton production
exceeded appraisal estimates; institutions were strengthened; and the cotton sub-sector has been



- 6 -
restructured and rehabilitated and remains the most healthy in the sub-region. Project indicators
and results are presented in Part [-4. One problem that has emerged is the difficulty that
farmers faced trying to sell their maize production. This has dampened their enthusiasm for
maize and increased the likelihood that they will concentrate again on cotton in a way that does
not insure a proper balance between cotton and food crop production. Project design included
the setting up of an economic observatory to follow up on food crop prices province-wide and
communicate this to farmers as well as attempts to improve their cereal storage. These did not
however help to improve food crops marketing.
21.   Rural Development. Cotton production increased from about 72,000 tons in the without
project scenario to 112,000 tons in the 1991/92 campaign, the last year of the cotton
rehabilitation program. This compare with the appraisal estimates of 97,000 tons for 1991/92.
The rehabilitation of the cotton sub-sector (see below) proved beneficial not only for the Borgou
province but nation-wide as evidenced by the increase of the national production from 109,700
tons in 1988/89 to 177,600 tons in 1991/92, 162,000 tons in 1992/93 and an estimated 270,000
tons in 1993/94. This resulted from both yield and area increase. Cotton yield met appraisal
targets by increasing from 1.20 tons/ha (without project) to 1.37 tons/ha in PY4 (appraisal
estimate 1.33 tons/ha). Total maize production for the period is reported at 292,000 tons
compared to a SAR estimate of 200,000 tons. The increase is mainly the result of an expansion
in planted areas. Production of sorghum is also substantially above target (226,000 tons
compared to 148,000 tons), due also to an increase in areas planted; and that of groundnut only
moderately above target (52,000 compared to 47,000 tons). Production of niebe and millet over
the period is below appraisal targets (respectively 36,000 tons compared to 41,000 tons and
36,000 tons to 62,000 tons).
22.   Training of producers has met targets through the establishment of an extension system
organized on the 'training and visits' system and was associated with contact groups ("unites
de suivi") of farmers. Although the cotton technology was well assimilated, it became apparent
during the course of the project that there was a certain amount of 'fatigue' associated with the
repetitive nature of the technical messages or inadequacy of messages for the food crops. The
lack of information and of new technical messages on food crops stemmed from weaknesses in
the research program. Overall, the extension system performed well as a management tool with
continuous training and regular upgrading. Results are particularly visible on cotton and food
crops grown by farmers with the lowest yields. The components of.the project associated more
directly with cotton production were, in general, accorded more attention and were successfully
implemented. Lack of well defined market outlets for food crops has been a major constaint for
the development of these crops on a commercial basis and improve relevancy of extension
messages. Training of extension agents has been behind schedule due to the delay with the
construction of the training and extension centers. Performance of the animal tradon component
has also been below targets in part because of problems and delays with the credit scheme for
the purchase of implements. However, training for animal traction at the Boko training center
was successful and exceeded appraisal targets in terms of farmers' participation, refresher
courses and training of blacksmiths. Availability of working capital, identified as a serious
problem but not financed under the project, remains a serious constraint. Transfer of CARDER's



- 7 -
activities related to cotton primary marketing were also initiated towards 65 village groups as
planned.
23.  Inputs were distributed on time and credit recovery was about 99 %. Quantities distributed
were above appraisal estimates for the first two years but decreased later due to Government
efforts to curb cotton production. The number of beneficiaries under the village development
loan scheme was about equal to appraisal targets (6,904 compared to 6,960 targeted). Total loans
approved and disbursed under the village fund program amounted to CFAF 484 million over
four years, with an additional CFAF 206 million already approved in the fifth year. About 167
women's associations were created compared with a target of 156.
24.   Environmental protection activities were reinforced with the creation of 14 village tree
nurseries (appraisal target: 22) and the replanting of 2,000 ha with trees. Concurrently, a
vigorous environment campaign was started. The bottomlands development program reached
only 28% of its target (para. 11). More village wells were built than planned because of the
higher than anticipated demand from farmers. The road construction and maintenance program
experienced an important delay and has not started yet due to coordination problems between
the road construction agency and the financing agency.
25.   Applied research for both cotton and foodcrops has on the whole been successful due for
the most part to the active support of the CARDER Borgou and SONAPRA which provided
financing when the Government failed to do so. This has also been true of seed production.
26.   Institution Building. The CARDER Borgou, FSS and SONAPRA have been successfully
strengthen and proved effective in project implementation. This included the selection of
qualified national and technical assistance staff, with expatriate staff progressively replaced by
trained national staff, careful planning, preparation and management of a good training program
and strong commitment of senior management. Sixty five village groups also started to replace
the CARDER Borgou in seed distribution and in the primary marketing of seedcotton and inputs
as a first step towards the privatization of these activities. During the course of the project it was
also recommended to progressively disengage the State from SONAPRA. The Government
agreed to open-up the capital of SONAPRA, initially, to cotton producers only, and is presently
studying the related modalities. Privatization of the input supply, although not addressed during
project preparation and appraisal, was also started by the Government through a private agent
who initially supplied 20% of fertilizer needs in 1992/93. However, fearing the creation of a
rent seeking situation, the lenders have reluctantly followed the Govemment and recommended
to open-up competition among the private sector for more efficiency and eventually better prices
to farmers. The share of the fertilizer market to be privatized is programmed to gradually
increase to 40, then 60 and 80% in subsequent years.
27.   The establishment and functioning of the FSS and its management committee have
worked well because (i) their roles and responsibilities were well defined during project
preparation, appraisal and negotiations, and adopted by the Government together with a set of
mechanisms to determine producers' prices, stabilization and support rules; (ii) the Government
recognized the need for a well structured assistance to the ailing cotton sub-sector, its chief



- 8 -
foreign exchange earner and, in many respects, the engine of development of the rural sector;
(iii) the lenders worked well together and put in place adequate conditionalities which they
supervised well; and (iv) national staff selection for key posts was appropriate. However, the
strengthening of SONAPRA's financial management had a difficult start because of the low
quality of the initial technical assistance provided, this is now on the right course and has been
given a new impetus.
28.   At the central financial services level in MDRAC, the objective of putting in place a
common accounting and internal audit system for the CARDERs has not been met and this was
compensated by the CARDER Borgou itself. These efforts failed because of the unsatisfactory
performance of the technical assistance in MDRAC and the highly decentralized and autonomous
systems of both the CARDERs and SONAPRA which made it difficult for the MDRAC to
establish another relevant and acceptable system.
29.   Cotton Sub-Sector Rehabilitation Program. This program has reached or exceeded most
of its objectives. The ginning factories were transferred as planned from the CARDERs to
SONAPRA; SONAPRA's structure was modified to include an industrial department and a
bureau of transport; and the FSS did effectively supervise SONAPRA. Concurrently, the
recommended policy measures have been adopted: changes of the lint and ginning grading
procedures, replacement of the forfeit ("bareme") system with an 'actual cost" system; limitation
of advances to field agents for seed cotton purchases; adoption of a flexible cotton pricing
system linked to the world market; and removal of subsidy on fertilizers and insecticides.
30.   The consequent results have been as follows: ginning yield have increased from 38.4%
in 1987/88 to 42.8% in 1991/92 and an estimated 42.5% in 1993; guaranteed seed cotton prices
have been reduced from CFAF 105/kg in 1989 to the current CFAF 95/kg with supplementary
payments made to the farmers when world market permits it; the factory gate cost of seed cotton
decreased by 17% from CFAF 306/kg in 1988 to CFAF 253/kg in 1992 and the unit lint cost
(FOB basis) by 22% from CFAF 461/kg in 1988 to CFAF 360/kg in 1992. Equally as
important, the cash flow of the whole cotton sub-sector has improved from nothing in 1989 to
yield a total of CFAF 6.2 billion from 1990 through 1992; despite the trend toward lower
international cotton prices. Finally, the cotton sub-sector has repaid its external debts and settled
its internal arrears. These positive results have been caused by the same reasons provided in
para. 27 above. In addition, industrial technical assistance provided to SONAPRA for its ginning
factories has been a major factor.
31.   Project Impact. The project's impact has been positive. Increased cotton production
generated a higher level of foreign exchange than would have otherwise been the case. The
combined value of lint and seed exports grew from CFAF 11.3 billion before the project in
1987/88 to CFAF 30 billion in 1991/92, an increase of over 160%. The increase in the
production of foodstuffs made it possible to export more to other parts of the country which are
deficient and to neighboring countries. Payments to the Government in the form of direct taxes,
income taxes and special gains amounted to CFAF 4.7 billion from 1989/90 to 1991/92. Over
the same period, farmers received CFAF 3.5 billion as supplementary payments over and above



- 9 -
the purchase price of cotton from the net margins of the sub-sector after taxes. In the same time
the stabilization fund could be replenished at a level of about CFAF 3.4 billion.
32.   The project's ERR was estimated at 25.5% in the base case. The analysis for this report
gives a rate of 29.2% (Part Iml, 6B). The difference with the appraisal estimate comes mainly
from (i) the improvement in cotton quality which has meant higher average export prices. The
appraisal report included a substantial quality discount that is no longer justified; (ii) higher
agricultural commodity prices in the new World Bank Commodity projections compared to
appraisal numbers and, at the same time, lower projected fertilizer prices than those at appraisal;
(iii) higher production volumes than appraisal estimates; and (iv) lower production and
processing costs by SONAPRA as a result of the efficiencies obtained (para. 30).
G.   Project Sustainability
33.   The sustainability of the project's benefits appears good although it can be affected by
two factors:
(i) uncertainty over the future role and functions of the CARDERs. Under the on-going
Agricultural Services Restructuring Project, the CARDERs are expected to have no
revenue earning activities and to depend on the central Government budget for their
financial needs. Given the Government's failure to honor its budgetary commitments in
the past, there is a serious risk that important CARDERs' field activities will suffer from
a lack of recurrent costs financing and its staff lack motivation for further work. This
could have a negative impact on rural development activities. The Alaflarou seed
production center which has been transferred to the department of agriculture is already
facing working capital problems. Coordination with central ministry services is proving
elusive.
(ii) FSS and SONAPRA have functioned relatively free of undue political interference
because of the conditionalities, implicit or otherwise, of the project and the presence of
the lenders which served as a deterrent. It is not clear that in the absence of a well
focused project and constant supervision by the lenders, the FSS and SONAPRA will be
left to function independently on purely efficiency criteria.
34.   The transfer of responsibilities to local communities and cooperatives although very
encouraging and under strong demand is still at an embryonic stage. Cooperatives are still weak
and require much training and management assistance to play the roles assigned to them.
H.   Bank's Performance
35.   The Bank's performance has been good by most yardsticks. Project preparation and
design were done systematically and sought to learn from existing and/or past operations as
much as possible (paras. 6 and 7). The appraisal was well conducted with a balanced multi-
disciplinary team and the physical implementation targets established were on the whole realistic.
There have been eleven supervision missions with an average of two a year except in the last



- 10-
two years. The continuity in the staffing of these missions was good. The CFD participated in
seven of these missions. Finally, the Bank showed great flexibility in dealing with a number of
important issues as they arose.
36.   A weakness in the performance of the Bank is the failure to properly focus on rural
development activities in the first two years or so of project implementation. It devoted most of
its attention during this period to the cotton sub-sector. The relative neglect of rural development
may have been a factor in the delays of some rural development activities. The Bank also did
not initially staff its missions with specialists in rural development and research. Again, this may
have had a negative impact on project implementation.
I.    Borrower's Performance
37.   The performance of the Borrower has been generally satisfactory. It participated actively
in project preparation and carried out many of the preliminary studies that were required.
Effectiveness conditions were met without delay and most of the staff required to be posted were
nominated on time and had for the most part adequate experience and qualifications. Finally the
required budgets, and annual work plans and operating reports were produced on time.
38.   The Borrower consistently failed to make the necessary budget contributions. Near the
end of project implementation, it made important staff changes in SONAPRA without consulting
the lenders and in a way put at risk the capacity building efforts undertaken until then.
J.    Project Relationships
39.   The relationship between the Borrower and the Bank has been good. The relationship
between the Bank and the co-financiers and the Borrower and the co-financiers has also been
good except for procedural matters with IFAD and BOAD.
K.   Consulting Services
40.   The performance of consultants used by the project has generally been good except for
the initial financial specialist in SONAPRA (para. 27) and the technical assistance team provided
to the central financial services of MDRAC (para. 28).
L.    Project Documentation and Data
41.   All project documents (legal agreements, staff appraisal report) were comprehensive and
provided a useful framework for the Bank and the Borrower during project implementation.
They also provided sufficient flexibility to project management to allow it to adapt to certain
field conditions as they evolved.
42.   All the data relevant to the preparation of the PCR were readily available, namely the
balance sheets and other financial statements of the project for a number of years and certain
performance indicators as well as project operating reports.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1877-BEN)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower prepared an extensive report which is available on file. The following main
conclusions and recommendations have been extracted from the report and translated.
I.    Positive aspects of the project
The results obtained at the end of the project are largely satisfactory, considering the
record production levels attained for all crops, and especially cotton. We noted:
a) A high level of farmer participation in the achievement of the project goals. This is
evidenced by the solid performance levels attained in food and cotton production.
b) Substantial improvement in farmer revenue, especially as the result of the increase in
cotton production by introducing high-yield varieties (STAMF), and the generalization
of the use of inputs.
c) Development of a new type of partnership with the farmers producing and multiplying
seeds of maize, ground-nut and cotton. High yield plant material could be produces at
a lower cost.
d) Increased technical level of extension workers and producers through numerous courses
provided at the CARDER training center of Ina and at subregional meetings, as well as
through the study visits and tours that were organized.
e) Support of the Village Development Fund program led to improved purchasing power
for a number of rural women through the development of their economic activities.
f) Increased responsibility assumed by producers, now better organized within the farm
structures, i.e., the Village Groups (GV) and sub-prefectoral unions, for crop marketing,
primarily cotton, and inputs management.
g) Diversification of animal traction equipment: in addition to the plow, the use of the
cultivator and the ridge plow is becoming widespread in the villages.
h) Existence of a framework for fighting against bush fires through the establishment of
committees and brigades, and test trials as awareness tools for the villagers.



- 12 -
i) Improved management of the cotton sector has led to a substantial decline in its
production costs, making this product more competitive on the international market.
II. Problems encountered
These problems involve the following:
a) Disorganized food sector.
b) The level of women's participation in the literacy program is still low.
c) Excessive cost of technical assistance and lack of social skills on the part of certain
assistants.
d) Extension of herbicides products was largely curtailed by prohibitive prices.
e) The high price of pesticides to be bought directly by farmers has led to use of insufficient
quantities, with the risk of lower yields and lower quality of seed-cotton.
f) In matters concerning research, whether on food crops or cotton, the training of
researchers under the project has barely begun. The non-existence of technical support
missions at these levels is another complaint.
g) The difficulties in mobilizing BOAD loans prevented to achieve the planned completion
rates for the financed components, primarily in respect of hydro-agricultural
developments and the construction of offices for the former Planning Bureau in the
Ministry of Rural Development.
h) Agriculture is still itinerant. Despite the commendable intensification efforts resulting
from the increasing use of mineral and organic fertilizers, itinerant slash and burn
farming still characterizes the production system in the Department of Borgou. The
clearing of thousands of hectares every year has led to climatic disturbances.
i) In the context of environmental protection, the forest species used in extension programs
do not always meet producers' requirements. In addition, the bush fire fighting
committees and brigades are not fully functional and have made little contribution to the
expected change in the villagers' behavior, in matters concerning bush fires.
j) The Borgou Village Development Fund for Women program succeeded to a certain
extent in developing agricultural activities. On the other hand, there was no notable
progress in processing activities from the standpoint of introducing new adapted
technology despite the Research involvement in the execution of this component.
k) Extension services have not yet succeeded in getting farmers to adopt the use of the
complete mix of animal traction equipment.



- 13 -
The following recommendations should be made in light of the problems which were found
so that project accomplishments and assets could be preserved and consolidated.
III.   Recommendations
The following should be emphasized as recommendations:
a) Literacy for rural women to strengthen their self-management capacity, and better
adapted financial support required to develop their economic activities.
b) The establishment and organization of sub-sectors for cereals (maize) and oleaginous
plants (ground-nuts) would enable a substantial improvement of farmers' income, and
above all would ensure that a market exists for these products.
c) The GV and the Cooperative Unions should be adequately supported and trained to
manage successfully the marketing and input supply activities that are being gradually
transferred to them.
d) Where environmental protection is concerned, it will be highly beneficial to strengthen
the intervention capacity of the bush fire fighting brigades and local committees and to
intensify reforestation activities in the villages. The possibility of extension activities
involving species useful to producers (e.g. medicinal plants) should be considered.
e) The continuous deterioration and absence of feeder roads make the collection and
marketing of agricultural products particularly difficult, and pose an ongoing problem
that the "roads and bridges operation" which the villagers organize annually with
rudimentary tools alone cannot solve. It would thus be desirable for CARDER Borgou
to be equipped with a light unit responsible for the roads not covered by Public Works.
f) Because of the serious financial problems which occurred in the execution of the
bottomlands development component, new impetus should be given to these activities in
the best interest of a number of rice and vegetables growers in the department.
g) Urgent measures should be taken to complete the construction of the former planning
Bureau, which is now an integral part of the MDR construction under the Agricultural
Services Restructuring Project.
h) The problem of improving technologies for processing agricultural products remains
unchanged. More research and studies on this aspect should be developed for helping
rural women improve their working conditions and their incomes.
i) Definition of an adapted policy for the sedentarization of agriculture.



- 14 -
j) Although phase two of the Borgou Rural Development Project clearly yielded satisfactory
results in many areas, farmers must received continued support in order to build upon
these accomplishments.



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1877-BEN)
PART III: STATISTICAL DATA
1. RELATED BANK CREDITS
Title                           Pu se                            App         Srova
Year
Cr. 307-BEN                     To stimulate                     1972             Cancelled
Zou-Borgou                      production of cotton
Cotton Project
Cr. 716-BEN                     To strengthen                    1977             Completed
Technical                       SONAGRI and
Assistance                      CARDER and
Project                         prepare projects
Cr. 1127/1-BEN                  To Improve rural                 1981             Completed
Borgou Rural                    incomes and
Development                     promoting agric.
Project                         exports
CR. 1314-BEN                    To raise rural                   1982             Completed
Zou Province Rural              incomes and
Development Project             expand exports
Cr. 2285-BEN                    Reorganization                   1991             Under
Agricultural                    agric. institut-                                  Supervision
Services                        ions for better
Restructuring                   provisions of
Project                         services
Cr. 2344-BEN                    Institution building              1992            Under
Natural Resources               and pilot actions                                 Supervision
Management Project              to promote sound
environmental
management
Cr. 2529-BEN                    To rehabilitate                   1993            Under
Second Rural Savings            rural savings and                                 Supervision
& Loans Rehabilitation          loans institution
Cr. 2601-BEN                    Poverty alleviation               1994            Not yet effective
Community-Based                 through income generating
Food Security Project           activities and nutrition



- 16 -
2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                          Planned           Revised           Actual
Dat               Date              Da=
Identification                9/1984            9/1984            9/1984
Preparation                   8-10/1985                           8-10/1985
Pre-appraisal                                                     3/1986
Appraisal Mission             1/1986            5/1986            5/1986
Credit Negotiations                             3/1987            11/1987
Board Approval                                  6/1987            2/1988
Loan Signature                                                    4/1988
Credit Effectiveness                                               12/1988
Project Completion            6/1992                              3/1993
Credit Closing                12/1992           9/1993            9/1993



- 17 -
3. CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US Dollars Million)
Bank Fiscal Year                  Appraisal                 Actual            Actual/
Estimate                                   Aggraisal
FY88   Sept 1987
Dec 1987
March 1988
June 1988                  1.28                                        0
FY89   Sept 1988                   1.51                                        0
Dec  1988                 4.26                      5.16             121
March 1989                5.74                      6.55             114
June 1989                 8.14                      8.99             110
FY90   Sept 1989                   9.86                     10.17             103
Dec  1989                 11.45                     10.64             93
March 1990                12.77                     12.29             96
June 1990                 14.31                     13.15             92
FY91   Sept 1990                  15.10                     13.91             92
Dec  1990                 16.59                     14.34             86
March 1991                16.99                     15.93             94
June 1991                 18.27                     16.98             93
FY92   Sept 1991                  18.67                     17.48             94
Dec  1991                 19.76                     18.70             95
March 1992                20.02                     19.28             96
June 1992                 21.00                     19.39             92
FY93   Sept 1992                                            19.73             94
Dec  1992                                           19.93             95
March 1993                                          20.41             97
June 1993                                           20.47             98
FY94   Sept 1993                                            20.47              98
Dec  1993                                           20.79             99
March 1994                                          21.00            100
June 1994



- 18 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicators                                Appmisal                                  Actual
Estimate
Year                             1        2       3       4                 1       2       3        4
A. Rural Development
Trainine of azents:
(man-days)
periodic meetings                1080    1080    1080    1080               10903   7828    6706    3271
refresher courses                6140    6140    6140    6140               5150    5502    5043    3614
Training of producers:
(man-days)
Through groups                   -        -       -        -                        29700   34800   1675
Group formation                  1472    1424    1392    1392                1432    1424   1093    1257
Model Plots Work                 1472    1424    1392    1392                512      881    1139    1456
Training of Village
Group secretaries                1726    1816    1115      952               1726    1816   1115      952
Inputs:
Fertilizers (tons)               12761   13493   16843   23300              14925   14329   12067   16832
Insecticides
(1000 liters)                      957    1012    1129    1417               711      831     921      946
Spreaders(units)                   450     530    1196    3735               889    1331    2130    3409
Seeds: (tons)
Maize                              100     100      100     112              116      179     275      123
Groundnut                          30       30      30      200               28       14     306       -
Cotton                             30       30      30       43               30      30       40      54
Animal Traction
Ploughs                           2000    1500    1500    1780               1260     916     330    1067
Carts                              400      40      400      42              192      238      30     233
Attelages                          500    1000    1500      940              674      736       -      302
Draft oxen pairs(total)                                    3000                                       2270
Cooperative Development:
Literacy Courses: A               3881    4175    5246    5450              2635    3580    6489
B                4720    4175    4943    5450               2236    1193    6198
Vilaize Develovment Fund:
Animal Traction Equipment:
Medium Term Loans (FCFA Mn)
Loans to Women                     -         -       -        -               -        -        -       6
Loans to men                       -         -       -        -              96       167       -      90
Seasonal Loans(Women)              19        7       19       -               -        32      29      64
(CFAF Milion)
Total Loans: Women                 19        7       19       -               -        32      29      70
Total Loans: Men                    -        -       -        -              96       167       -      96
Total Loans                        19        7       19       -              96       199      29      160
Loans Beneficiaries (Number)
Medium Term Loans:
Women                          -                 -        -               -        -        -      36
Men                            -        -        -        -              712    1312       -      798
Sub-otal                           -       240    1080        -              712    1312        -      834
Seasonal (Women)                   480    1800    4680                        -      1116    928    2002
Total Beneficiaries                480    2040    5760        -              712    2428      928    2836
Women's Associations               24       48      84        -               30      55       80       2
Number of members                 1440    2880    5040        6              1556    2067    2489       6
Farmers' Groups Created            -         -       13      52                -       -       13      52
USPP Created                       -         -       3        7                                 3       7



- 19 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (CONTINUED)
Indicators                             Appraisal                               Actual
Esttmate
Year                           1       2       3       4               1       2       3       4
A. Rural Devpt(Ct'd)
Environmental Protection
Fight against brushfire
Trial sites(total)                                                                                7
Awareness Brigades(total)                                                                         2
Village committees to
fight brushfire(total)                                                                           291
Replanting Program:
Village Nurseries(total)                               22                                         14
Trees Planted                  -       -       -       -               36641   33575   32305   17567
Areas Planted(ha)              -                                         420     492    492    599
Awareness Programs
Brushfire Campaigns(total)             -       -       -                                          3
(two week campaign)
Bottomilands Development (ha):                         100                                       28
Soil preparation (ha)                                  150                                       24
Village WeUs(total)                                     10                                       23
Farm wells(total)                                       50
Seed farm wells(total)                                  10                                        9
Rural Road Rehabilitation (km)                         300
Road maintenance (km)                                  200                                       35
Constructions:
SONAPRA Warehouses (total)                               8                                        7
Village warehouses (total)                              10                                        10
Rural Social Centers(total)                             5                                         5
Extension Centers(total)                                33                                       33
PACAPAR(total)                                           3                                     80% done
Seed Farm(units:total)                                   2                                     60% done
Research Farm(units:total)                              6                                      60% done
Extension Indicators:
Farmers reached (% total)       69      73      75      75                -       63     66      57
Monthly contacts(%i total)      44      44      44      44                -       36     32      30
Average farmers' monthly
participation(% total)         100    100    100    100                   -       45      54     52
Adoption of themes:
Ploughing (%)                  -         -       -       -                -       16      39     22
Density (%)                    -         -       -      -                 -       20     34      24
Fertilizer application(%)      -         -       -      -                 -       40     46      40
Production (Borgou only)
Cotton(1000 tons)              77.6    85.9   97.4   109.4              66.6    88.3   113.5  103.1
Maize (1000 tons)              43.7    49.2   53.5   53.5               65.4    60.7   75.5   90.6
Groundnut (1000 tons)           9.6     11.4   12.8   12.8              12.2    11.0   14.3   14.7
Niebe (1000 tons)               9.2     10.0   10.7   10.7               9.7     8.5     8.8    9.2
Millet(1000 tons)              15.0    15.5    16.0   16.0               7.6     6.0    10.4   11.8
Sorghum (1000 tons)            34.9    36.8   38.3   38.3               57.3    47.5    59.2   61.6
Yields(tons/ha):
Cotton                     1.22     1.27    1.29    1.33            1.16    1.27    1.32    1.37
Maize                      0.80     0.85    0.90    1.00            1.04    0.93    1.05    1.17
Groundnut                  0.75     0.81    0.85    0.85            0.83    0.70    0.89    0.92
Niebe                      0.46     0.49    0.50    0.50            0.49    0.48    0.53    0.56
Mwet                       0.70     0.75    0.76    0.76            0.64    0.53    0.70    0.73
Sorghum                    0.67     0.70    0.75    0.77            0.76    0.66    0.66    0.77



- 20 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (CONTINUED)
Indicators                               Appraisal                                  Actual
Estmrnate
Year                             1       2        3       4                 1       2        3       4
A. Rural Devpt(ct'd)
Applied Research
1. Cotton:
Station trials:
classical varieties              7        6       6        7               7        6        6       7
glandless varietiea              3        5       4        5               3        5        4       5
Outside trials:
classical varieties              27       20      18       20              27       20       18      18
glandless varieties              20      27       19      24               20       27       19      22
Seed Multiplication(ha)
IRMA 96+97:
"000" & "00" Zones               2.4     2.4      2.0      -               2.4      2.4      1.2      -
"0" Zones:CARDER                 110     90       93       -                110     100      110      -
STAMF:
"000" & "00" Zones               5.3     5.3      7.7     8.0               5.3      5.3    7.7      8.0
"0" Zones: CARDER                30      30       130     30               30        30      130     32
RFC PARAKOU
Multiplication farmers           -        80       -       170             -         43      -        134
"1" Zones: CARDER                1310    2234    4659    4661               1310     2729    5492   4123
2. Foodcrops:
Variety Improvement:
Station trials                   54       70       63      65               54       57      56       68
Outside trials                   40       55       51      39               40       38      61       39
Production Systems Trials        68       68      296     220               0        45      96      130
Other Trials                     16        16      30      37               0        16      34       36
B. Cotton Subsector Rehabilitation Pro2ram
Indicators
(PY=Project Year)                                     PY I   PY 2    PY 3    PY 4(est.)
Years                            1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Seed Cotton (lOOOtons)           133       70      109      105     146      178     162
Ginning Yields: Lint (%)         39.0    38.9    40.5    40.7    40.6    42.8    42.5
Grain yield (%)                  52.5    57,3    57.2    56.9    56.3    56.5    54.7
Seed Cotton price                110      100      105     95      95+5   95+5   95+5
Costs: (CFAF/kg)
Factory gate                 346      306      301     262     263      253
Ex-factory lint cost             402      354      347     309      311     296
Total lint cost                  480      431      399     428      366     353
Cotton subsector
Cash Flow (CFAF bns)             -6.4    -1.1       -      2.0      2.5     1.7
Taxes on profits-BIC (CFAF Mn)    345     220      337     890    1104    635
Distribution of net profits
after BIC (CFAF Mn)
- FSS                                                  504      562     366
- Farmers                                              378     421      275
- SONAPRA                                              189     211      137
- Nat.Budget                                           189     211      137



- 21 -
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Total Proiect Costs (Actual-CFAF Million)
YEAR0 YEAR1 YEAR2 YEAR3 YEAR4 TOTAL
1. CML WORKS               0       42      205     744      259    1250
2. EQUIPMENT              37       450     611     412       45     1555
3. OP. COSTS               0      1208     652     315      139    2314
4. CONSULITRNG            23       857     409      171      13    1473
5. INPUTS/SPARES          187     3977     218      77       0      4459
6. PPF:IDA                 0       230      0        0       0      230
7. ENVIRONMENT             0        0       31      63       20      115
8. OTHER:CFD             3011       0       0        0       0      3011
TOTAL                    3259     6763    2127    1782      476    14407
B. IDA Proiect Costs ('000 SDR)
IDA Credit Estirnate     Actual
1. CML WORKS              720                      763
2. EQUIPMENT              1000                      420
3. OP. COSTS              1990                     3658
4. CONSUL/TRNG           3080                      3565
5. INPUTS/SPARES         7270                      6919
6. PPF:IDA                1140                      575
7. NON ALLOCATED          700
TOTAL                 15900                    15900
C. Financin2 Plan (Actual - CFAF Million)
IDA     CFD    IFAD    BOAD   GVT    TOTAL
LCIVIL WORKS             188      396      37      529     100      1250
2.EQUIPMENT              661      584      111      0       199     1555
3.OPERATING COSTS    1391          0      326       0      596      2314
4.CONSUL./TRNG           1337     132       4       0        0      1473
5.INPUTS/ SPARES         2769     475    1215       0        0      4459
6.PPF IDA                230       0        0       0        0      230
7.ENVIRONMENT              0       0        0      115       0       115
8.OTHER:CFD                0     3011       0       0        0      3011
TOTAL ACTUAL          6576    4598    1693      644     896    14407
SAR ESTIMATE             6189    6185    3103    2106    2289    19872
DIFFERENCE               -387 2/  1587    1410    1462    1393      5465
DIFFERENCE ANALYSIS:
T.A.                            853
INPUTS AND SPARES               734      684
BORGOU INPUTS                            421
MEDIUM TERM CREDIT                       305
RURAL ROADS                                      1105
OTHER                                            357
SHORTFALL OF GVT AND BENEFICLRIPES                       1393
 INPUTS AND SPARES(GVT)                                  596
* OPERATING COSTS                                         441
* BENEFICIARIES                                           357
2 Difference due to exchange rate variations



- 22 -
6. PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators           Appraisal Appraisal   Actual Actual Diff(%)*
PY 4  Total 4 yrs    PY4   Tot. 4 yrs 1. 2.
Beneficiaries        75% of                57%           24
of farmers           of farmers
Outpu (OOOt)
Seedcotton           109.4  370.3          103.1  371.5  (5) -
Maize                 53.5  200.0          90.6  292.3  38 38
Groundnut             12.8   46.6           14.6   52.2   14 12
Niebe                 10.7   40.6           9.2   36.2  (14)(11)
Millet                16.0   62.5           11.8   35.8  (26)(43)
Sorghum               38.3  148.3          61.6  225.6  61 52
Area (000 ha)
Seedcotton            82.1  288.7          77.2  294.8  (6) 2
Maize                 53.5  225.0          22.7  276.8  41 56
Groundnut             15.0   56.8           16.0   61.4    7  8
Niebe                 21.4   82.8           16.5   70.9  (23)(14)
Millet                21.1   84.4           16.3   54.6  (23)(35)
Sorghum               49.7  205.9          79.9  306.4  61 50
Y ieds (tons/ha)
Average              Average
Seedcotton            1.33   1.28           1.37   1.28    3  -
Maize                 1.00   0.89           1.17   1.05   17 18
Groundnut             0.85   0.82          0.92   0.84    8  2
Niebe                 0.50   0.49          0.56   0.52   10  6
Millet                0.76   0.74          0.73   0.65   (4)(12)
Sorghum               0.77   0.72          0.77   0.71
Difference (%):
1. is for year 4 only; 2. is for all four years.
Internal Cash Flow of Cotton-Subsector
In CFAF Million
Year 3 Year 3
SAR   Actual
Profit Before Tax              0   1670
Income Tax                     0    635
Net Profit                     0   1035
Depreciation                   0    701
Cash Flow                      0   1736



- 23 -
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal          Current
Estimate            stimate
(PCR)
Economic Rate of Return   25.5%              29.2%
Underlying Assumptions
The basic assumptions used in this report are the same as in the appraisal report.
1. Benefits
Project benefits are those derived directly from increased production due either to productivity
increases or to an expansion of the areas cultivated. Benefits are also obtained from the cost
reductions achieved in the processing of seed cotton. Finally, benefits come from the higher
prices obtained for cotton as a result of quality improvements.
2. Prices
Farmgate prices for cotton, maize, sorghum, groundnut and fertilizers are based on actual and
projected world market prices for these products according to IBRD's commodity price forecast
(August 20, 1993) in constant 1990 prices. Even in the first two years of project implement
when prices obtained by the project for cotton have been higher than exhibited actual MBRD's
prices, the latter have been used for consistency. For Nieb6, market prices have been used.
3. Costs
All incremental field costs including consultants, technical assistance, research, road construction
and maintenance, studies and the restructuring costs have been included as economic costs.
However, costs which are national in scope have been adjusted to reflect only that part which
can be attributed to the Borgou area as a proportion of Borgou's cotton production compared to
the national production. Incremental labor costs have been taken at CFAF 400 per man-day.
4. Other Assumptions
For the components that are not completed such as the road component and for which an
extension has been obtained, the investments have been programmed over two years. Project life
is 20 years. Finally, no benefits have been attributed to the effects of the cotton restructuring
program in provinces other than Borgou.
More details on the economic analysis are provided in Annex 1.



- 24 -
C. Studies
The only major study foreseen and undertaken was the medium-term restructuring and
development program for the rural sector. It was prepared on time and financed in tight
coordination between IDA and CFD. The study permitted to foster the path to a complete review
of the rural development strategy and the preparation of a national seminar in July 1990 where
the new orientations of the national policies were presented. A letter of rural development policy
was subsequently signed by the Government and served as basis for the negotiations of the
Agricultural Services Restructuring Project.
Another study undertaken was the marketing study for the cotton sub-sector which helped define
the objectifs and targets of cotton production in line with ginning capacity and environmental
constraints.



- 25 -
7. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section!    Description                                Status
covenant
2.02       Counterpart funding                         Not complied with. Major problem, the
executing agency had to compensate through
own resources
3.01 c)    Financing and on-lending agreements between    Generally complied with or in accordance
the Borrower, SONAPRA and FSS acceptable    with recommendations of supervision
to IDA.                                     missions
3.04 a)    CARDER Borgou, SONAPRA, FSS, RCF and   Generally complied with, although with some
URP to prepare annual work programs and     delays in some cases
budgets
3.05       SONAPRA and FSS to enter into working       Complied with
contracts every year defining respective
responsibilities
Accounting practices,keeping of records and  Generally complied with.
4.01       audits, for the CARDER, SONAPRA and FSS
5.01       Cause CARDER Borgou, SONAPRA and FSS   Generally complied with, although towards
to carry out operations in accordance with  the end of the project the Borrower
sound financial, technical and agricultural  proceeded with some unjustified staff changes
practices, with competent staff, including a  including the GM without consultation with
general manager acceptable to IDA.          IDA.
5.02       Exchange views and implement the            Complied with but not according to original
recommendations of the study on the        timetable, CARDERs restructuring
reorganization of the CARDERs               implemented through the Ag. Services
Restructuring Project.
5.03       SONAPRA to employ a specialized firm for    Complied with, SERD services contracted by
management assistance                       FSS throughout the project
5.04       SONAPRA to employ not more than three       Complied with, and number of sales agents
sales agents for cotton                     increased progressively to 7 in accordance
with supervision missions.
The following actions were required and complied with as conditions of disbursement of the MDA Credit:
a) Transfer of the cotton ginning factories from the CARDERs to SONAPRA
b) Change SONAPRA statutes to reflect new responsibilities for all cotton sector activities
c) All subsidies on insecticides have been phased out
d) Reorganization of accounting and administrative procedures of CARDER Borgou, Atacora and Zou and
SONAPRA
e) Update annual working agreement between SONAPRA and CARDERs
f) Preparation of key indicators for the cotton sector and first annual budget and financing plan



- 26 -
8. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs (Staffweeks)
Task            FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   TOTAL
Preparation    41.6   53.5                                                                      95.1
Appraisal       14.3   30.3    5.7                                                              50.3
Negotiations                    18.6                                                             18.6
Loan Processing 0.2     1.4    6.9                                                               8.5
Sub-Total      41.8   69.2   37.2   24.3                                                        172.5
Supervision                             6.9    9.7      8.9    10.6   16.1   3.9                 59.1
Completion Report                                                                       4.0      4.0
TOTAL           41.8   69._   37.2   31.2    9.7        8.9    10.6   16.1   3.9        4.0     232.6



- 27 -
B Missions
month/ No. of          Days   Perform.       Type of
Mission        Year   Persons         in Field Status       Problems
Pro-ldentif-    3/85    1             10
ication
PreparatiWol
Reviews
1.            9/85   2(E,F)           4
2.             10/85  1(E)            4
Appraisal      5/86   4(E,A,L,R,F)  21
Post Appraisal  10/87  2(E,E)
Supervision
1.             3/88   2(E,E)$         5      N.A.
2.             9/88   2(E,AE)         19     4               F,M
3.             12188  2(E)            7      2               F,M
4.             3/89   2(E,AE)*        11     4               F,M
5.             11/89  3(E,F,AE)*       3     2               TA,F
6.             5/90   4(E,F,A,AE)*   8       3               P,F
7.             11/90  4(E,F,A,AE)*  17       6               F
8.             6/91   3(E,O,AE)*      6      2              F
9.             10/91  3(E,O,AE)*    10       4               F
10.            1/92   3(E,F,AE)*      3      2              F,L,
i1.            4/93   2(E,A)          9      4              F,M
Notes:
E: Economist; F: Financial Analyst; A: Agronomist; L: Livestock Specialist; R: Road Engineer- AE: Agro-
Economist; 0: Operations Officer- F: forester.
$ Mission done with BOAD (Banque Ouest Africaine de Doveloppement)
* Mission done jointly with the CFD (Caisso Fran*ise do D6veloppement)
Problems: F: financial; M: management; TA: technical assistance; P: procurement; L: legl



- 28 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1877-BEN)
ANNEX
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS



- 29 -
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS(BASE CASE)
1988-89  1989-90  1990-91  1991-92  1992-93  1993-94  1994-95  1995-9a  1997-09
0        1       2        3        4        5        a        7      8-20
WITHOUT PROJECT (COTTON)
AREA                             50940   60940   00940   80940    60940    80940    e0940   80940   00940
YIELD(TONS/HA.)                   1.200    1.200    1.200    1.200    1.200    1.200    1.200    1.200    1.200
PRODUCTION(TONSI                 73128    73128   73128   73128    73128    73128   73128   73128   73128
WITH PROJECT (COTTON)
AREA                             60940   57538   78378   85891    75039   85891    85891   85891   85891
YIELD(TONSIHA.)                   1.200    1.158    1.156    1.310    1.374    1.374    1.374    1.374    1.374
PRODUCTIONCTONS)                 73128   e0o80    88311   112532   103107   118018   118018   118018  118018
INCREMENTAL PRODN.                     0        0   15183   39404   29979    44890   44890   44890   44890
OUTPUT(INCREMENTAL)
ACTUAL (1)
MAIZE (TONS)                       40005   24828   20088   34931    50030    50030   50030   50030   50030
MILLET (TONS)                       7573        7        0    2824    4248       4248     4248    4248    4248
GROUNDNUTS (TONS)                  10258    2007       749    4030    4418       4410     4418    4418    4418
NIEBE (TONS)                        0000    3841      2400    2737      3127     3127    3127    3127    3127
SORGHUM                            41409    15858    8091    17824   20208    20208   20208   20208   20208
FARMGATE PRICE
COTTON                             70718   148859   123207  108894   90904    98113   112432   154342  100924
MAIZE                              42220   50200   49000   52918   50935  50034.1  50934.1  50935.1  50936.1
MILLET                             45410   54318   53988   51078    50888    50s8e    51018  51834.2  52883.0
GROUNDNUTS                         40470    73215   68822   44938    50202   48745   40274   46274   40274
NIEBE                                      1o1000  140000  129000   100000   100000  100000  100000  100000
SORGHUM                            45410   54318   53988   51878    so5ss   50088   51018   51834   52004
(1) Based on Cader-Borgou's 1988-1989 anusa roport
VALUE OF INCR. PROON.
COTTON(BORGOU)                                  0  1870.85  4282.97  2725.22  4314.51  5047.07  0928.45  7493.28
MAIZE                                     1248.37  983.234  1848.48  2548.28  2533.22  2548.23  2548.28  2548.33
MILLET                                    0.38023        0  145.939  215.322  215.322  218.724  220.192  223.715
GROUNDNUTS                                140.942  51.5474  181.102  221.093  200.427  204.340  204.340  204.348
NIEBE                                     580.201   330.84  353.073    312.7    312.7   312.7   312.7   312.7
SORGHUM                                   330.851  982.281  1044.31   1024.3  1024.3  1030.97  1047.47  1004.23
2310.7   4204.0  7855.9   7047.5  8eo8.5  938o.0  11281.4  11848.8
INPUTS (WITHOUT PROJECT-BORGOU; million CFAF)
NPK                                798.8   809.7   780.2    731.9    747.5    701.7   738.9   718.7   095.2
UREA                               270.8    280.5   248.8   228.2    234.4    242.4   250.2   258.3   280.6
DAP                                 53.2    52.8    47.7    44.7        40.0     40.9    47.7    48.0    48.5
INSECTICIDES                      1333.1  1333.1   1333.1   1333.1   1333.1   1333.1   1333.1  1333.1  1333.1
LABOR                             9443.9  9043.8  9043.8  9043.8  9043.8   9043.8  9043.8  9043.8  9043.8
OTHER COSTS(@20,OOF/HA)          4001.7  4001.7  4001.7  4001.7  4001.7  4001.7  4001.7  4001.7  4001.7
15901.4  15521.5  15435.1  15383.3  15400.4  15429.5  15415.3  15402.1  15389.8



- 30 -
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS(BASE CASE)
1988-89  1989-90  1990-91  1991-92  1992-93  1993-94  1994-95  1995-98  1997.09
0        1       2        3        4        5        a        7      8-20
WiTH PROJECT SITUATION- WITH STABIUZATION IBORGOU)
AREA COTON LEVEL 0 (HA.)          69578   45484   49873    40493   34057   38982   38982   38982   38982
AREA COTON LEVEL i IHA.)                   12054    17e14   24346   28527   30363   30363   30363   30363
AREA COTON LEVEL il (HA.)                            9092    15053   14458    18547    10547   106547   16547
89578   57538    78378  85892.1  75039.9   85892   85892   85892   85892
INPUTS (WITH PROJECT--BORGOU; million CFAF)
NPK                                912.1    804.5   1084.5  1195.1   1090.4  1271.9  1233.7  1190.7  1160.8
UREA (COTTON)                      302.4   280.9    328.5   339.5   322.8   369.2   381.1    393.4   400.1
DAP                                 53.2    67.2      78.2    82.9    94.9    96.7        98.4    100.2   102.1
SUPER TRIPLE                        10.0      9.9      9.4    15.9    19.1       19.5    19.8    20.2    20.6
INSECTICIDES                      1522.0  1199.0  1834.4  1875.4  1884.7   1905.5  1905.5   1905.5  1905.5
LABOR                             9443.9  10095.7  10818.3  11834.4  12141.3  12141.3  12141.3  12141.3  12141.3
OTHER COSTS(@20.OOOF/HA)          4001.7  4171.8  43a1.4  4818.8  4780.0  4780.0  4780.0  4780.0  4780.0
TOTAL ON FARM COSTS              18245.3  18828.9  18288.6  19780.2  20113.1  20584.1  20559.9  20537.4  20516.4
INCREMENTAL ON FARM COSTS          343.9  1107.4  2853.8  4378.9  4708.7  5154.8  5144.6   5135.3  5126.0
CIVIL WORKS                            0  41.7388  205.145  743.934  259.095    615.0   552.0       0.0      0.0
EQUIPMENT                        37.4782  449.593  010.827  411.850  45.4999      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
CONSULTING/TRAINING                23.32  850.973  408.959  170.929   12.517      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
INPUTS/SPARES                        187  3978.88  218.305   77.218      378    799.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
ENVIRONMENT                          0.0      0.0    31.2    63.4    20.3         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
OPERATING COSTS                      0.0  1207.8    852.5   314.7    138.9   138.9    138.9   138.9   138.9
PPF                                    0  230.137        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
FINANCRESTRUCT                    3011.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
3258.9  8782.9  2126.9  1781.8   854.3   1552.9   890.9    138.9   138.9
TOTAL COSTS                        3803    7870    4980       8159    5581      6707    5836      5274    5265
ADJUSTMENT FACTOR 1990            0.9485     1.00     1.02     1.07     1.08     1.09     1.12     1.12     1.12
COSTS IN 1990 TERMS                 3806    7870    4879       5779    5149    6134    5210    4728    4720
TOTAL BENEFITS                        0    2311      4205     7856    7048    8806    9380   11281   11847
NET BENEFITS                      -3808    -5580      -874    2077     1899    2472    4150    6534    7127
EC.RATE OF RETURN                        GUESS      ERR
1.0  29.1888



- 31 -
BENIN
SECONO 80RGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC FARMGATE PRICE-COTTON 1/
1990     1991     1992      1993     1994      1995      1996
C.I.F. COTTON FIBRE                                           *hon         1820     1640     1200      1220     1270      1400      1734
Le_s:OusI.Adi  21                                             $Alon          a         0        0         0        0        0          0
:Freight.ineuranoe, Commission                             ston          123      132       109      170       171      175       185
F.0.8. COTONOU                                                lhon         1697     1460      1031     1050      1099     1221      1549
329070  367500  4040650  493324
F.O.8. COTONOULI@ 300 CFA/US1 I                               CFAht    471581  409920  367083  316442  329070  307500   464605
Add: Hydroscorpic Prrmium(1 %)                               CFAh         4716     4099      3677     3164      3297     3675      4047
Less: Exit Taxes                                             CFAht        2640     2430      3859      1129     2515     2515       2515
SONAPRA Overhead Cost  3/                                 CFAht       10000    12000    16000    17472    17815    17815       17815
Teohnical Support                                         CFAt            0         0        0         0        0        0          0
Port Charge                                               CFAlt        0398     8992      7439     6441      5097     5097      6597
Storsgo & Handling                                        CFA/t        3012     29865    1076      3000      3000     3000      3000
Insuranoe                                                 CFA^/           0         0        0         0        0        0          0
Interest&Finanoe Charges 4/                               CFA/t       13640     6610      0312     0312      0312     6312      6312
Trenportation                                             CfAh         6000     9219    10090    10000    11000    11000       11000
Rural Road Maintenano                                    CFAh            0         a        0         0        0        0          0
"RICE MILLGATE                                                CFAA      424801   371393   206592  275251   235728  323936    422004
L_e* : Ginning Costs
Operations 5/                                            CFA/t       33000   35000    35000    35000    35000    35000        36000
Deprecation                                              CfAh        13569    11236      0372     9700     0167      9167      9167
/ALUE OF FIBRE                                                CFAh      373032  326053   282220   230645  241561  279763    377897
QUIV. VAL.SEED COTTON 140.74-42.8% Recov.1 6/                CFA/*      154010  132215   120847   98902   103690  120091    102212
Add  Val. of seed INat                                        CFA/*      13760    10841      7000    11000    12000    12000       12000
Lis  Depreciation on Storago (1%)                            CFA*          770       661      004       495      513      000        a11
Tranport to Factory                                       CFA/h        6147     e180    0654       0563     7051      7059      7059
Primary Morketing Costs                                   CFAh        5400      5400     5400      5400     5400      6400      5400
IET VAL. OF AT MARKET CENTERS                                CFAh       165459   130307   115294    97604  102713   119032    160942
.ase: CARDER Service 7/                                      CFAh         3600     7600      6600     0600      6600    0600       6000
CONOMIC FARMGATE PRICE                                       CFAh       148859  123207  1t0384    90904    06113   112432    154342
CTUAL FARMGATE PRICE                                         CFA/t      95000    15000   95000    05000   05000   95000           95000
OTTON PRODUCTION                                                       104741   140404   177017   100000   170000  170000    170000
IELD 1%)                                                                 40.74      40.0    42.32    42.03    42.93    42.03       42.93
INT PRODUCTION                                                           42719   59210    74800    30000    72000   72000         72000
FOOTNOTES
11 ThN represents a modiflid eo.h flaw taig aese dt of red sat    peremwt  rather for the
fllt tour years and extrapolbting tlarea_ter. A_al1 figume ar fram SONAPRA and FP
I In 1990 and 1991 the aveoag ptle obtined by SONAPRA hao bee  52 Wd 1S% meten t
sotu  prioe providd teo World Sank fiur. In 1991 1 W 1082. SONAdAA we- 1 e0nd 32%
w_ twn World Bank 8atua prie. There is t_areftreason for  qualIty isoetJI
he quality of cotton from he cswisldorbly hktpvd wiude tho prleot Te heNght grad
repreents 39% in 1992 oompared to 0.04% in 1907. The gn  higF_t Ira"d has has
trom 07 to 55%. Simuitaneously, the unellasbfied groaes and rjots hwe deors_d tram 29% In 1387
0% in 1992.
The numbers for the first four yeare ate s esta SONAPRA's prejeote
have bean usd for later years.
These charges represent the fineola oosta meat Ineurred at th port only (tbe dJotndeuri.
Other financial coto are including In SONAPRAs svstei owts.
See no. I above.
Average ginning rates over tho Lst four y     hoe ben 40.74% In 19 90 an 42. 6% or mere
therefter.
See no. 1 above.



- 32 -
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (BASE CASE)
UREA                                          1990    1991      1992     1993     1994     1995    2000
*     _____--- ----               1990 US$ PER TON     ----_
F.O.B.(1)                            *      157.00   168.00-  132.00   109.00   116.00       125   14.00
FREIGHT & INSURANCE (2)              *       42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00
C.I.F                                *      199.00   210.00   174.00   151.00   158.00   167.00   186.00
*     _______                     1990 CFAF PER KILO
.
C.I.F. (3)                           *       59.70    63.00    52.20    45.30    47.40    60.10    55.80
PORT HAND./STORAGE (4)                        3.60     3.50     3.50      3.50     3.50     3.50     3.50
FINANCIAL CHARGES (6)                *        6.00     6.00     6.00      6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00
WAREHOUSE VAL. COTONOU               *       69.20    72.50    61.70    54.80    56.90    59.60    65.30
TRANSP.COTONOU-BORGOU (6)            *        7.50     7.50     7.60      7.50     7.50     7.50     7.50
WAREHOUSE VAL. BORGOU                *       76.70    80.00    69.20    62.30    64.40    67.10    72.80
DISTRIBUTION CHARGES 17)             *       15.00    15.00    15.00    15.00    15.00    15.00    15.00
FARMGATE PRICE                       *       91.70    95.00    84.20    77.30    79.40    82.10    87.80
___ ....*.. -                         ..------..-- . _.----                _____ _
FOOTNOTES
(1) Bank commodity price projections;Urea(FOB N.W.Europs bagged;4650-0)
(2) Freight & Insurance charges Europe-Cotonou based on ICB for 85/87 season.
(3) Convened to CFAF at the rats of US$1 -300 CFAF.
(4) Port handling & storage from SONAPRA.
(5) Financial Charges from SONAPRA.
(6) Transport from Cotonou to Parakou;Averaga distance of 415 km at about 18.1 CFA/ton/km.
(7) Dbstributicn charges taken at 15 FCFAlkg. from SONAPRA.
...-- --------  -_-              .   _   _   .   _ _ _   _--_ _    ___



- 33 -
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (BASE CASE)
POTASH(KCL)                                   1990     1991      1992     1993     1994     1995      2000
-- __ .--_-.- ---                                                     1990 US$ PER TON -- ---
F.O.B.(1)                            *       98.00   107.00   106.00   101.00   106.00        106   107.00
FREIGHT&INSURANCE (2)                *       42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00
C.I.F                                       140.00   149.00   147.00   143.00   148.00   148.00   149.00
*-  ----.------- 1990 CFAF PER KILO
C.I.F. (3)                           *       42.00    44.70    44.10    42.90    44.40               44.70
PORT HAND./STORAGE (4)               *        3.50      3.50     3.50     3.50      3.60     3.60     3.60
BAGGING (5)                          *        6.00      a.00     8.00     6.00      6.00              6.00
FINANCIAL CHARGES (6)                *         6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00      6.00     6.00     6.00
WAREHOUSE VAL. COTONOU               *       67.50    60.20    69.60    68.40    69.90               60.20
TRANSP.COTONOU-BORGOU (7)                      7.60     7.60     7.50      7.60     7.50               7.60
WAREHOUSE VAL. BORGOU                *        65.00    67.70    67.10    65.90    67.40               67.70
DISTRIBUTION CHARGES (8)             *        16.00    15.00    16.00    15.00    15.00               15.00
FARMGATE PRICE                       *        80.00    82.70    82.10    80.90    82.40              82.70
FOOTNOTES
(1) Bank commodity price projections;KCL FOB Vancouver(-O-a1) .
(2) Freight from Europe to Cotonou from SONAPRA IC8 for 1986/87 was about US $55/ton.We
have added $ 15/ton for extra distance between Vancouvor and Europe.
(3) Converted to CFAF at the rate of US$1 -300 CFAF.
(4) Port handling & storage from SONAPRA.
(6) Bags at 5000 CFA/ton and bagging at 1000 CFAlton.
(6) Financial Charges from SONAPRA.
(7) Transport from Cotonou to Parekou:Avereag distance of 415 km at about 18.1 CFAlton/km.
(8) Distribution charges taken at 15 FCFAlkg. from SONAPRA.
.. =-  - .....-.           _      ==_mm WM=== - - - - _              _   ... -.=m.....     _=I=== _. .---



- 34 -
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (BASE CASE)
SUPERPHOSPHATE(TSP)                           1990    1991      1992     1993     1994     1996    2000
* _____                    1990 USt PER TON---               -
F.O.B.111                            *         132      130   113.00   106.00   112.00   118.00   125.00
FREIGHT&INSURANCE (2)                *       42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00
C.I.F                                       174.00   172.00   165.00   148.00   154.00   160.00   187.00
1990 CFAF PER KILO
.
C.I.F. (3)                           *       62.20    61.60    46.50    44.40    4e.20    48.00    50.10
PORT HAND.JSTORAGE (4)               *        3.50     3.50     3.50     3.50      3.50     3.60     3.50
BAGGING(6M                                    6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00      6.00     6.00     6.00
FINANCIAL CHARGES (6)                *        6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00      6.00     6.00     6.00
WAREHOUSE VAL. COTONOU               *       67.70    67.10    62.00    69.90    81.70    63.50    65.60
TRANSP.COTONOU-BORGOU (7)                     6.00     6.00     6.00      6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00
WAREHOUSE VAL BORGOU                         73.70    73.10    68.00    65.90    67.70    69.50    71.60
DISTRIBUTION CHARGES (8)                     15.00    15.00    15.00    15.00    15.00    15.00    15.00
FARMGATE PRICE                       *       88.70   8B.10    83.00    80.90    82.70    84.50    86.60
FOOTNOTES
(1) Bank price projectiona;FOB US Gulf portas0-45-0).
(2) Freight from Europe to Cotonou from SONAPRA ICB for 1986/87.
(3) Convened to CFAF at the rate of US$1 -300 CFAF.
(4) Port handling & storage from SONAPRA.
(5) Bogs at 6000 CFA/ton and bagging at 1000 CFA/ton.
(6) Financial Charges from SONAPRA.
(7) Transport from Cotonou to Parakou;Avrage distance of 416 km at about 18.1 CFAlton/km.
(8) Distribution charges taken at 15 FCFA/kg. from SONAPRA.
-----------    _- -  _- -- _- - _- - _- - __                  _- -==  m  __ __ -_   __



- 35 -
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (BASE CASE)
NPK
1990 USS PER TON-                  -
VALUE PER NUTRIENT(FACTORYI(1)      *       1990    1991      1992     1993    1994    1995    2000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _*                                                                                   S
UREA                                *      348.89   373.33   293.33   242.22   257.78   277.78   320.00
TSP                                        293.33   288.89   251.11   235.56   248.89   202.22   277.78
KCL                                        160.66   175.41   172.13   165.57   173.77   173.77   175.41
PRICE PER NUTRIENT OF NPK(2)               272.16   280.92   241.02   218.17   230.71   242.21   201.27
*                                                                         C
COST RAW MAT.PER KG.NPK(3)          *      138.80   143.27   122.92   111.27   117.66   123.53   133.25
BORACIUM & SULPHUR                          15.00    15.48    13.28    12.02    12.72    13.35    14.40
MIXING COST & BAGGING(4)                    40.00    40.00    40.00    40.00    40.00    40.00    40.00
F.O.B(EUROPE)                       *      193.80   198.75   170.20   163.29   170.38   176.88   187.65
FREIGHT&INSURANCE (5)               *       42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00
C.I.F                               e      235.80   240.75   218.20   206.29   212.38   218.88   229.65
*                                                                         S
1990 CFAF PER KILO
*                                                                         S
C.l.F. ()                           *       70.74    72.23    65.46    6l.59    83.71    65.60    68.89
PORT HAND./STORAGE (7)              *        7.50     7.50     7.50     7.50     7.50     7.50     7.50        5
FINANCIAL CHARGES (8)               *        8.50     8.50     8.50     8.50     8.50     8.50     8.50
WAREHOUSE VAL. COTONOU              *       86.74    88.23    81.40    77.59    79.71    81.60    84.89        0
TRANSP.COTONOU-BORGOU (9)           *        7.50     7.50     7.50     7.50     7.50     7.50     7.50
WAREHOUSE VAL. BORGOU               *       94.24    95.72    88.96    85.09    87.21    89.10    92.39
DISTRIBUTION CHARGES(10)                    15.00    15.00    15.00    15.00    15.00    15.00    15.00
FARMGATE PRICE                      *      109.24   110.72   103.96   100.09   102.21   104.18   107.39
FOOTNOTES
11) The fertilizer used in the project ar is 14-23-14-5-1 granubated NPK.Pricee
in US$/ton cf nutrients are from the FOB pnoee for Urea Ifor N). TSP (for P).
and KCL (for K8.Convwrted to value par nutrient by lividing FOB pnrie by Pwreantage                          3
coneSntration.                                                                                               a
(2) Weighted average of prices for N,P,end K;with weights frorr 14-23-14.                                      5
(3) Weighted average of nutrient price. converted back to tho compound NPK (14-23-14).
(4) Granulating cost assurned at US$301ton,bsgging at US$10/ton.
(5) Freight from Europe to Cotonou frorn SONAPRA ICB for 1988/87.
(8) Convertod to CFAF at the rate of US$1 *300 CFAF.
(7) Port handling & storage from SONAPRA.
(8) Financiau Chwrge from SONAPRA.
(9) Transport from Cotonou to Perakou;Averogo distance of 415 km at about 18.1 CFA/ton/km.
(10) Distribution charges taken at 15 FCFA/kg. from SONAPRA.                                                   e



- 36 -
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (BASE CASE)
DIAMMONIUM PHOSPHATE (DAP)                   1990    1991     1992    1993      1994    1996    2000
- - - ---------------                   --      --                  1990US$ PERUTON -      TO-
F.O.B.(1)                           *      171.00   169.00   136.00   116.00   125.00     131   143.00
FREIGHT&INSURANCE (2)               *       43.00    43.00    43.00    43.00    43.00    43.00    43.00
C.I.F                                      214.00   212.00   179.00   159.00  168.00   174.00   180.00
*-  ---       ------19 90 CFAF PER KILO ---__
C.I.F. 13)                          *       64.20    63.60    63.70    47.70    50.40    52.20    55.80
PORT HAND./STORAGE (4)              *        3.50     3.50     3.50     3.50     3.60     3.50     3.60
BAGGING (6)                                  6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00
FINANCIAL CHARGES (6)               *        8.60     8.50     8.50     8.50     8.60     8.50     8.50
WAREHOUSE VAL. COTONOU              *       82.20    81.60    71.70    65.70    68.40    70.20    73.80
TRANSP.COTONOU-BORGOU (7)           *        6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00
WAREHOUSE VAL. BORGOU                       88.20    87.60    77.70    71.70    74.40    76.20    79.80
DISTRIBUTION CHARGES (8)            *       16.00    15.00    16.00    16.00    15.00    15.00    15.00
FARMGATE PRICE                             103.20   102.60    92.70    86.70    89.40    91.20    94.80
._-- -- -  -----------------  - ------- - _--    -- --- __-_
FOOTNOTES
(1) Bank commodity price projections;DAP FOB US Gulf.
(2) Freight from Europe to Cotonou from SONAPRA ICB for 1986/87.
(3) Convened to CFAF at the rate of US$1 -300 CFAF.
(4) Port handling & storage from SONAPRA.
(5) Bags at 6000 CFA/ton and bagging at 1000 CFAJton.
(B) Financial Charges from SONAPRA.
(7) Transport from Cotonou to Parakou;Average distance of 416 km at about 18.1 CFAlton/km.
(8) Distribution charges taken at 16 FCFA/kg. from SONAPRA.
.---  -- - - -  -  - - ---  - -   - -_ _ _ . _  _ _ _ _        _- - -_ - -       _ _ _ ____



- 37 -
BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Farmgate Prices
*        1990      1991     1992      1993      1994      1995     2000
MAIZE--For Export to Niger                               ----             1990 US$ PER TON -
F.O.B. 1)                              '       109.00   105.00    98.00    94.00    97.00           98   105.00
FREIGHT&INSURANCE (2)                  '        46.00    46.00    46.00    45.00    45.00    45.00    45.00
OUALITY ADJUSTMENT                     '0.00               0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
C.I.F                                          154.00   150.00   143.00    139.00    142.00    143.00   150.00
'-_    ___- --- ----              - 1990 CFAF PER KILO
C.I.F. (3)                                      46.20    45.00    42.90      41.70    42.60    42.90    45.00
PORT HAND./STORAGE (4)                           4.00      2.00     3.00      3.00      3.00      3.00      3.00
OVERHEAD/MARGIN (5)                    '        11.00    11.00      11.00    11.00     11.00    11.00    11.00
WHOLESALE VAL. COTONOU                 *        61.20    68.00    68.90    55.70    56.60    66.90    69.00
TRANSP.COTONOU-PARAKOU (6)             '         8.00      9.00    10.00      8.70      7.50      7.60      7.60
TRANS.PROJ.AREA-PARAKOU (6)                      9.00      8.00      6.73     6.22      6.22      6.22      6.22
VALUE MAIZE PROJECT AREA (7)                    60.20    59.00    60.17    58.19    57.88    58.18    60.28
PRIMARY M'KTING & Bagging (8)          '        10.00    10.00       7.25     7.25      7.25      7.25      7.25
FARMGATE VALUE                         '        50.20    49.00    52.92    60.94    50.63    60.93    53.03
FOOTNOTES
(1) Bank commodity price projections;No. 2 Yellow Gulf Ports
(2) Estimated Freight & Insurance charges Gulf Ports-Cotonou.
(3) Converted to CFAF at US$1 -300 CFAF.
(4) Port handling & storage estimated to be some as for fertilizer.
(6) Importer's overhead & handling costs estimated at 10% of CIF plus
port handling and storage charges.
(6) Transport between Cotonou & Parakou is about 415 km. Cost/ton/km. estimated at same
rate as for fertilizer CFAF 18 .1/ton/km. Traneport from production area to
Parakou,average distance of 100 km at 28 CFAF/ton/km.
(7) Project produced maize taken as Import substitute for export to Niger and N. Nigora.
18) Primary marketing and bagging costs are actual for first four years end estimate
thereafter.
- _-- _   - _,-- _-- _- _ _-- _-- _-- _,-- _-- _- _ _                _______               ____      _______     



- 38 -
BENIN
SECOND BORGOU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Farmgate Prices
1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     1995     2000
SORGHUM--For Export to Niger                                            1990 US$ PER TON 
F.O.B.(1)                             *       104.00   103.00    96.00    93.00    93.00         94   102.00
FREIGHT&INSURANCE (2)                 *        46.00    45.00    45.00    46.00    46.00    45.00    45.00
QUALITY ADJUSTMENT                    *         0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
C.I.F                                         149.00   148.00   141.00   138.00   138.00   139.00   147.00
-1990 CFAF PER KILO
C.l.F. COTONOU (3)                    '        44.70    44.40    42.30    41.40    41.40    41.70    44.10
PORT HAND./STORAGE 4                  '         6.00     6.00      6.00      6.00     6.00      6.00     6.00
OVERHEADIMARGIN (5)                             5.07     5.04      4.83     4.74      4.74     4.77      5.01
WHOLESALE VAL. COTONOU                '        55.77    66.44    63.13    62.14    62.14    62.47    56 11
TRANSP.COTONOU-KANDI ()               '        11.35    11.35    11.35    11.35    11.35    11.35    11.35
TRANS.PROJ.AREA.KANDI (6)                       2.80      2.80     2.80      2.80     2.80      2.80     2.80
VALUE SORGHUM PROJECT AREA (7)        '        64.32    63.99    61.68    60.69    6O.69    61.02    63.66
PRIMARY M'KTING & Bagging (8)         '        10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00
FARMGATE VALUE                        *        54.32    63.99    51.68    60.69    50.69    51.02    53.66
FOOTNOTES
(1) 8ank commodity price projectione;No. 2 Milo Yellow Gulf Ports
(2) Estimated Freight & Insurance charges Gulf Ports-Cotonou.
(3) Converted to CFAF at US$1 -300 CFAF.
(4) Port handling & storage estimated to be same as for fertilizer.
(6) Importer's overhead & handling costs setimated at 10% of CIF phlu
port handling and storage charge.
(6) Transport between Cotonou & Kndi Is about 628 km. Cost/ton/kmn estimated at same
rate as for fertilizwr CFAF 18. 1/on/km. Traneport from production area to
Kandi, average distance of 100 km at 28 CFAF/tonJkm.
(7) Project produced sorghum taken oa import subetituta for export to Nigor and N. Nigeria.
(8) Primary marketing and bagging a*sumed at 10000 CFAF per ton.
a _-  _--  _ ...... _ _  _ _--    ....... _ _ _ _ . .. a.. a,, . . -............. ,-   .,,,,, a, ................. , _--   a _--   -----..    .... __.__   



- 39 -
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
SECOND BORGOU FtURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pric_ - Groundnut (Exports)
Yow: 1990
Constat 1990 prie.
MLrket   priem           Doestic    V Ad              Foeign Exchane
OL       MEAL                 OL    MEAL                 OL    MEAL
Price c.i.f Europa                           US$/ton  964.00   185.00              0.00     0.0              904.00   185.00
L_ss:Froight.lns & Comrmisions             USltton   50.00    50.00                        0.00              50.00    50.00
Pric f.o.b Cotonou                           US$/ton  914.00   135.00              0.00     0.00             914.00   135.00
F.O.8 Cotonou (@300 CFAF/JS*)               CFAF/kq  274.20    40.50               0.00     0.00             274.20    40.50
port Taxes & OIC (2% C.lFI                             5.48     0.91
:Port Charg_                               6.00      0.00              2.94     2.94              0.90      0.96
:Transp MiU -Pot*                             0.45     0.45               0.05     0.05              0.22     0.22
:Intsr_t Charge (2% c.i.f)                            5.48     0.81               4.44     0.66
Value: Miligate                                       256.78    32.43              -7.44    -3.65            273.02    39.32
Equivalent Value Seed (52% & 48%)                     133.53    15.57              -3.87    -1.75            141.97    18.88
TOTAL Seed Valuo                              149.09                       -5.62                     160.85
Less:Milling Coa                              25.00                       10.00                      10.00
:Trenport to Mill                             7.50                        0.90                       3.60
:Handling. Primary Marketing                           8.00                        3.70                        2.64
:Shelling Costs                             4.00
Fwmantc Volue(shsild)                                 104.69                     -20.28                      144.61
ate Vlue (unsholled)70%rec                            73.21                      -14.20                      101.23
WAPA A
JULY 1986



