Page  1
May 31, 1988
His Excellency Barnabd Bidouzo
Minister of Finance and Economy
Ministry of Finance and Economy,
Cotonou
People's Republic of Benin
Re:
Credit No.1721 BEN (Second Water Supply Project)
Credit No.1807 BEN (Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation 
and Maintenance Project)
Credit No.1877 BEN (Second Borgou Rural Development Project)
Introduction of Variable Commitment Charge
Dear Minister:
The International Development Association (the Association) has decided to 
institute a system of variable commitment charges on its development credits, 
set on an annual basis, with a maximum charge of 1/2 of 1 percent (0.5%) per 
annum, which has been the rate of commi , tment charges since their introduction 
in 1982. Under the new system, the Association will set the commitment charges 
payable on its development credits on June 30 in each year, and, for an initial 
period, commencing July 1, 1988, the rate has been set at zero (0). The current 
rate of 1/2 of 1 percent (0.5%) per annum will continue to be applicable until 
June 30, 1988.
To effect these changes, the Association proposes to amend development 
credit agreements already signed. Therefore, the Association hereby agrees to 
amend Section 2.04 of each of the Development Credit Agreements entered into 
between the People's Republic of Benin (the Borrower) and International 
Development Association (the Association) for the above-captioned Projects to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue from a date sixty days 
after the date of this Agreement to the respective dates on which  amounts shall 
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
cancelled at 
the rates set from time to time pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of 
the next 
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, 
except that the rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied 
as of July 1, 
1988.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any 
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the 
currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or insuch other eligible currency or currencies 
as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section".
Kindly confirm the agreement of the Borrower to the foregoing by signing 
and dating the confirmation form on the enclosed copy of this letter and 
returning it to us for our files.
Very truly yours,
Ismail Serageldin
Page  2
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
Barnabe Bidouzo
Authorized Representative
Date:  July 26, 1988
