Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1877 BEN
(Second Borgou Rural Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 25, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1877 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 25, 1988, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the 
Borrower) and  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated December 24, 1987 from the 
Borrower describing a program of action, objectives and policies designed  to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's cotton sector (the Program)  as a first phase 
of structural adjustment of the agriculture sector, declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in the financing of urgently needed inputs and  factory spares required 
during such execution;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale de Cooperation 
Economique (CCCE) a loan (the CCCE Loan) in an approximate amount of one  hundred 
twenty-five million French Francs (FF 125,000,000) to assist in financing part of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an  agreement (the CCCE Loan 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CCCE;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from Banque Ouest Africaine de 
Developpement (BOAD) a loan (the BOAD Loan) in an approximate amount of two  billion 
one hundred million CFA Francs (CFAF 2,100,000,000) to assist in financing part of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the BOAD Loan 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and BOAD;
Page  2
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from International Fund for Agricultural 
Development (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan) in an approximate amount equivalent to seven 
million nine hundred fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights  (SDR 7,950,000) to assist 
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the IFAD Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IFAD; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.O1. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement;
(c)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
November 24, 1986, January 6, 1987 and January 20, 1987, between the Borrower and the 
Association;
(d)
"CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means the Franc de la Communaute Financiere 
Africaine, the common currency of the Borrower and the other members of the West 
African Monetary Union;
(e)
"MDRAC" means the Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Action  
Cooperative, the Borrower's ministry responsible for rural development and  
cooperative action, or any successor thereto;
(f)
"CARDERs" means the Centres d'Action Regionale pour le Developpement  
Rural established in each of the Borrower's Provinces pursuant to the  Borrower's 
Ordinance No. 75-84 dated December 29, 1975;
(g)
"CARDER Statutes" means the Statutes of the CARDERs approved by the  
Borrower's Decree No. 84-82 dated January 27, 1984, as such Statutes may be amended 
from time to time;
(h)
"CARDER Borgou" means the CARDER responsible for the Borgou Province;
 
(i)
"SONAPRA" means Societe Nationale pour la Promotion Agricole, a public 
enterprise established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 82-008 dated  December 30, 
1982, and "SONAPRA Statutes" means the Statutes of SONAPRA approved by the Borrower's 
Decree No. 83-77 dated March 4, 1983, as such Statutes may be amended from time to 
time;
(j)
"Stabilization Fund" means Fonds de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix 
des Produits Agricoles, a public entity established and operating pursuant to the 
Borrower's Decree No. 87-431 dated December 29, 1987, and "Management  Committee" 
means the Committee responsible for the management of the Stabilization Fund and 
assisted by a permanent secretariat;
(k)
"Management Assistance Contract" means any agreement concluded by SONAPRA 
with another party or parties pursuant to Section 5.03 of this Agreement;
(l)
"SRDR" means the Service des Routes de Desserte Rurales, or any successor 
thereto, within the directorate of roads and bridges of the Borrower's ministry 
Page  3
responsible for equipment and transport;
(m)
"URP-Ina" means MDRAC's research and production unit for foodcrop located 
at Ina; and
(n)
"RCF" means MDRAC's cotton research agency.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million nine hundred  thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 15,900,000).
Section 2.O2. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A (a) and (c), B (b), C 
(a), and G of the Project, open and maintain in CFAF a special account in the  Cotonou 
Branch of the Central Bank for West African Countries on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount  required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance  withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992 or such later  date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in  the currency  specified in 
this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15, commencing July 15, 1998 and ending  January 15, 2028. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2008 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
Page  4
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph  (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition  has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.O8. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall:
(i)
cause CARDER Borgou to carry out Parts A (a) and (c), C, D, E (a), 
(b) and (c) and G (a) of the Project; together with SONAPRA, Part 
A (b) of the Project; together with SRDR, Part F of the Project; 
and  together with SONAPRA, CARDER Atacora and CARDER Zou, Part G 
(c) of the Project;
(ii)
carry out Part B (a) and (b) of the Project through URP-Ina and 
RCF, respectively;
(iii)
cause SONAPRA to carry out Parts G (b) and H of the Project;
 
(iv)
cause the Stabilization Fund to carry out Part G (e) of the 
Project; and
(v)
carry out Parts E (d) and G (d) and (f) of the Project through 
MDRAC;
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, 
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall  provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available, on a grant basis, the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated to the various Categories of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement as follows:
(i)
to CARDER Borgou, the proceeds allocated to Categories (1), (2) 
(a), (3) (a) and (4) (a);
(ii)
to RCF, the proceeds allocated to Categories (2) (b), (3) (b) and 
(4) (b);
(iii)
to the Stabilization Fund, the proceeds allocated to Categories 
(2) (d), (3) (d) and (4) (d); and
(iv)
to MDRAC, the proceeds allocated to Categories (2) (c), (3) (c) 
and (4) (c).
(c)
The Borrower shall under a financing agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower, SONAPRA and the Stabilization Fund under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Association:
(i)
relend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to 
Category (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement to the Stabilization Fund in an amount 
equivalent to CFAF 600,000,000, with repayment terms over fifteen 
Page  5
years including a five-year grace period and an annual interest 
rate of four percent (4%) on the principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding, the foreign exchange risk being borne by the 
Borrower;
(ii)
make available, on a grant basis, to the Stabilization Fund the 
remaining portion of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to said 
Category (5); and
(iii)
require: (A) the Stabilization Fund to advance the above-mentioned 
funds to SONAPRA for the acquisition of inputs and factory spares 
for which the proceeds of the Credit have been allocated to said 
Category (5); and (B) SONAPRA to use the funds generated by the 
sale of said inputs and factory spares to write off debts owed 
SONAPRA by the CARDERs and reimburse debt owed the Stabilization 
Fund by SONAPRA, all on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the financing agreement 
referred to in above paragraph (c) in such manner as to protect the interests  of the 
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the financing agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
establish and maintain a Project Account  in a bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association to be used exclusively for the purpose of  
meeting expenditures under Parts A (a) and (c), B (b), C (a) and G of the Project not 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(b)
deposit or cause to be deposited in the Project Account, promptly before 
the beginning of each quarter of its fiscal year, the Borrower's contribution towards 
expenditures under Parts A (a) and (c), B (b), C (a) and G of the Project during such 
quarter.
Section 3.O3. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause:
(i)
CARDER Borgou, SONAPRA, the Stabilization Fund, RCF and URP-Ina to 
furnish, not later than December 31 of each year, to the 
Association for its review and comments their proposed overall 
annual work programs and budgets. Said programs for CARDER Borgou, 
RCF and URP-Ina shall include joint activities between them; and
(ii)
SONAPRA to review and update its annual working agreement with 
each of the CARDERs referred to in Section 7.01 (a) of this 
Agreement and to furnish it, not later than September 30 of each 
year, to the Association for its review and comments.
(b)
After review and comments by the Association, the Borrower shall cause 
each of its agencies mentioned in paragraph (a) above to make such  revisions to its 
working programs, budgets and working agreements as may be  appropriate to reflect the 
Association's comments and to carry out its respective part of the Project for the 
year in question on the basis of said working programs, budgets and working 
agreements.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause SONAPRA and the Stabilization Fund:
(i)
to enter, not later than September 30, 1988, into a working 
agreement covering an initial twelve-month period, satisfactory to 
the Association, providing for their respective responsibilities 
and obligations in monitoring and controlling activities in the 
cotton sector; and
(ii)
thereafter, not later than September 30 of each year, to review 
and update said working agreement and to furnish it to the 
Page  6
Association for its review and comments.
(b)
After review and comments by the Association, the Borrower shall cause 
SONAPRA and the Stabilization Fund to make such revisions to their working agreement 
as may be appropriate to reflect the Association's comments  and to carry out their 
respective part of the Project for the year in question on the basis of said working 
agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement and  the actions specified 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out said Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall not use or permit the CARDERs or SONAPRA to use 
chemicals detrimental to the environment, including such chemicals as the Association 
may from time to time designate to this effect in writing to the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting  practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Page  7
(d)
The Borrower shall cause CARDER Borgou, SONAPRA and the Stabilization 
Fund to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with  sound 
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of CARDER  Borgou, SONAPRA 
and the Stabilization Fund, respectively.
(e)
The Borrower shall cause CARDER Borgou, SONAPRA and the Stabilization 
Fund each to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its Financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof as 
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause CARDER Borgou, SONAPRA and the 
Stabilization Fund each:
(a)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance  with 
sound administrative, financial, economic, technical and agricultural  practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management  assisted by competent staff 
in adequate numbers, including a general manager  whose qualifications and experience 
shall be satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to  make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
agricultural practices; and
(c)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other  
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 5.02. Until the completion of the ongoing study on the administrative 
organization and activities of the CARDERs, the Borrower shall exchange views with the 
Association on the contents and recommendations of said  study and, within one year 
from the completion thereof, put into effect such recommendations as determined in 
agreement with the Association.
Section 5.03. In order to secure assistance in the carrying out of SONAPRA's 
operations and conduct of its affairs, the Borrower shall cause SONAPRA to employ, 
under a Management Assistance Contract satisfactory to the  Association, a technical 
and financial management service company or companies whose qualifications, experience 
and terms and conditions of employment shall  be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.04. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, in order to  assist 
SONAPRA in cotton export marketing, the Borrower shall cause SONAPRA   to employ, 
under contracts satisfactory to the Association, no more than three sales agents paid 
on commission whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  8
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
CARDER Borgou Statutes or SONAPRA Statutes or the Borrower's Decree No. 
87-431 dated December 29, 1987 establishing the Stabilization Fund shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the operations or financial condition of CARDER Borgou, SONAPRA or the 
Stabilization Fund.
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CARDER Borgou or SONAPRA or the 
Stabilization Fund or for the suspension of their respective operations.
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes To the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.O1 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this  
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.O1. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of  Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
SONAPRA has entered into a working agreement covering an initial 
twelve-month period with each of the CARDERs, satisfactory to the Association, 
providing for respective responsibilities for seed cotton purchase and input  
distribution, a schedule for key actions to be performed by each of the  CARDERs in 
the cotton sector concerning primary marketing, input distribution, credit recovery 
and transport and payment terms for services rendered;
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the CCCE Loan Agreement, 
the BOAD Loan Agreement and the IFAD Loan Agreement, other than any  related to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(c)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and deposited therein an 
amount of seventy-five million CFAF (CFAF 75,000,000);
(d)
SONAPRA has entered into the Management Assistance Contract;
 
(e)
SONAPRA has entered into the agreements for cotton export marketing 
referred to in Section 5.04 of this Agreement;
(f)
the secretariat of the Management Committee has been staffed with a 
Page  9
manager, two senior economists, two senior agro-economists, a chief accountant and a 
financial analyst/controller;
(g)
SONAPRA's structure has been modified in due form to include an 
industrial department and a transport coordination unit for seed cotton, lint and 
input transport; and
(h)
the financing agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement 
has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, SONAPRA and the Stabilization Fund.
Section 7.O2. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.O3. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01, 5.01, 5.04 and 
6.O2 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on  which  the 
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen years after the 
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower responsible for finance for the purposes of Section 
11.O3 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.O2. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.O1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
P.O. Box 302
Cotonou
People's Republic of Benin
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINIFINANCES
MIFIN 5009 or
Cotonou
5289 or
MININDART 5252
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Corneille Mehissou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  10
By /s/ Ismail Serageldin
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to  each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Works for                    720,000             80%
     Part A (a)
     of the Project
(2)  Equipment for:
     (a)  CARDER Borgou           880,000  )
                                           )
     (b)  Part B (b) of            30,000  )
          the Project                      )
                                           )
     (c)  Part G (d) of            40,000  )          90%
          the Project                      )
                                           )
     (d)  Part G (e) of            50,000  )
          the Project                      )
(3)  Operating costs
     for:
     (a)  CARDER Borgou         1,670,000  )
                                           )
     (b)  Part B (b) of           120,000  )
          the Project                      )
                                           )
     (c)  Part G (d) of           120,000  )          70%
          the Project                      )
                                           )
     (d)  Part G (e) of            80,000  )
          the Project                      )
(4)  Consultants'
     services and
     training:
     (a)  CARDER Borgou         1,400,000  )
                                           )
     (b)  Part B (b) of           380,000  )
          the Project                      )
                                           )
     (c)  Part G (d)              690,000  )          100%
          and (f) of                       )
          the Project                      )
                                           )
     (d)  Part G (e) of           610,000  )
          the Project                      )
(5)  Inputs and                 7,270,000             100%
     factory
     spares under
Page  11
     Part H of the
     Project
(6)  Refunding of               1,140,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                  700,000
          TOTAL                  15,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, "Operating costs" means the costs  related to 
office supplies, documentation, vehicle operations, missions and travel and utilities, 
excluding salaries.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
3,800,000, may be made in respect of Category (5) on account of payments  made for 
expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1987; and
(b)
payments exceeding the equivalent of SDR 3,800,000 in respect of Category 
(5), unless the Association shall be satisfied after an exchange of views as described 
in Section 3.06 of this Agreement: (i) with the progress  achieved by the Borrower in 
the carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to the Association.
4.
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 3 (b) above, the 
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and 
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, 
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit or any part thereof allocated to Category (5).
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to consolidate gains obtained  under the 
Borgou Province Rural Development Project (Credit No. 1127 BEN) with  a specific 
emphasis on productivity improvements at the farm level and executing agency level; 
(b) to prepare a medium-term restructuring and  development program for the rural 
sector; and (c) to reorganize the cotton sector and improve its financial viability.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A.
Agricultural Development in Borgou Province
 
(a)
Improvement of extension services and training, including the  
construction and equipping of sub-district extension centers.
(b)
Supply to farmers of inputs (fertilizers, pesticides and seeds) for 
cotton and foodcrops and draft oxen and animal drawn implements, under credit or for 
cash.
(c)
Animal traction development through the acquisition of destumping 
equipment.
Part B.
Applied Foodcrop and Cotton Research
 
(a)
Carrying out of a three-year program of applied foodcrop and farming 
system research in Borgou Province.
(b)
Carrying out of a three-year program of applied cotton research in Borgou 
and Atacora Provinces.
Part C.
Consolidation of Farmer Groups in Borgou Province
Page  12
(a)
Assistance to farmer groups in functional literacy to enable them to 
assume cotton primary marketing and credit recovery functions.
(b)
Assistance to farmer and women groups for foodcrop marketing and 
processing.
Part D.
Environmental Protection in Borgou Province
 
Carrying out of rural forestry programs and a program of prevention of forest 
fires.
Part E.
Labor Intensive Program and Construction
 
(a)
Development of bottomlands on about 100 ha for rice cultivation.
 
(b)
Construction of about 15 village wells for human consumption and  
improvement of about 50 traditional wells for vegetable production.
(c)
Construction of about 8 multipurpose warehouses.
 
(d)
Construction of, and equipping for, office facilities for MDRAC Direction 
des Etudes et de la Planification.
Part F.
Roads in Borgou Province
 
Upgrading and maintenance of about 300 km of rural roads.
Part G.
Institutional Development
 
(a)
Improvement of CARDER Borgou's accounting, financial management and 
operational efficiency.
(b)
Improvement of SONAPRA's financial management and cost control and 
monitoring.
(c)
Development of management and internal control systems for SONAPRA and 
CARDERs Borgou, Zou and Atacora.
(d)
Establishment and operation of a central service for internal audit and a 
central service for financial and accounting training for the CARDERs and SONAPRA.
(e)
Operation of the Stabilization Fund.
 
(f)
Studies for the preparation of a medium-term restructuring and 
development program for the rural sector.
Part H.
Input Program
 
Supply to farmers of inputs (fertilizer and pesticides) for cotton and  food 
crops under credit or for cash in all the Borrower's Provinces and acquisition of 
factory spares.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.
The transfer of ownership of the cotton ginning factories from the CARDERs to 
SONAPRA has been completed.
2.
SONAPRA Statutes have been modified to reflect SONAPRA's responsibilities for 
all cotton sector activities from primary marketing to export.
3.
All subsidies on insecticides have been phased out.
 
4.
The reorganization of the accounting, administrative and financial systems and 
procedures of CARDER Borgou and SONAPRA has been completed and the  accounting, 
Page  13
administrative and financial systems and procedures of CARDER  Atacora and CARDER Zou 
have been reorganized.
5.
The annual working agreement between SONAPRA and each of the CARDERs, referred 
to in Section 7.01 (a) of this Agreement, has been updated as provided in Section 3.04 
(b) thereof.
6.
SONAPRA's detailed annual budget and financing plan for 1988-1989 for cotton 
sector activities, including a comparison between actual costs for the  previous year 
and budgeted costs, and key indicators such as ginning ratio, product quality and 
producer and input prices, have been prepared and are acceptable to the Association.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and  IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described  in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in People's Republic of Benin may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the  provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1  through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Local competitive bidding:
 
Works under Part A (a) of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance  with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
International or Local Shopping:
 
Equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from 
a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made  out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be 
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Page  14
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
(a)
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the 
Borrower, CARDER Borgou, SONAPRA and the Stabilization Fund shall employ  consultants, 
including those listed in paragraph (b) hereunder, whose  qualifications, experience 
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b)
The Stabilization Fund shall employ the financial analyst/controller  
referred to in Section 7.01 (f) of this Agreement. Not later than June 30, 1988, the 
Borrower shall employ an internal auditor and a trainer in financial and accounting 
procedures to serve the central services included in Part G (d) of the Project and a 
cotton researcher for Part B (b) of the Project and CARDER Borgou shall employ a 
financial adviser and a chief accountant.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A (a) and (c), B (b), C (a) 
and G of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories  in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF  
250,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit  Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from  the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the  time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
Page  15
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when  either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article  V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories for Parts A (a) and (c), B (b), C (a) and G of 
the Project, minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts A (a) and 
(c), B (b), C (a) and G of the Project, shall be equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A (a) 
and (c), B (b), C (a) and G of the Project shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount  not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if  
the  Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
