Docmt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqpt No.  12525
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2378-JO)
NOVJIE   22, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12525
Type: PCR
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Kiddle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be sd by recipients only in the performance of
their offical duties. Its contens may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank, authorization.



CURRENCY ROUIVLENTS
Currency Unit - Jordanian Dinar (JD)
Appraisal Year Average: US $1 = JD 0.375 (1983)
Completion Year Average: US $1 = JD 0.6882 (1993)
AB_REVIATIONS
DOP         Directorate of Projects
HRDSIL -   Human Resaurces Development Sector investment Loan
MOE         Ministry of Education
MPWH        Ministry of Public Works and Housing
TA          Technical Assistance
VTEO        Vocational Training and Employment Office



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 214 3
U.S.A
O0tl. of Dimector4anerai
apations Evaluation
November 22, 1993
lEMORANDUM TO THE EECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Jordan
Sixth Education Project (Ln. 2378-JO)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Jordan - Sixth Education Project
(Ln. 2378-JO) prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared
by the Borrower.
Having achieved its major targets of increased access and enhancement of school plant,
the project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The project exceeded its major physica; targets of
increasing access to basic and diversified secondary education. The objective of increasing access for
rural students and girls was achieved but, due to inadequate cultural analysis, girls' enrollments did
not expand as fast as school places, which were partly filed instead by boys. Overall school-age
population increase is expected, nevertheless, to lead to a continued rise in girls' enrollment. The
objective was also achieved of enhancing cost-effectively the physical quality of school classrooms and
specialized space, notwithstanding problems with international competitive bidding procurement for
small and dispersed school building bid packages, inferior quality of the local building contractor and
of the school furniture supply. Non-physical quality inputs, such as staff development, examination
reform etc, made less progress, partly due to late start-up of technical assistance and training.
Physical targets, made possible largely with cost savings arising from devaluation, were expanded near
the end of the project, but with a consequent protracted delay in project closing.
Institutional development was only partial largely due to delays and non-implementation
of technical assistance and fellowships and numerous changes in the roles and responsibilities of
government agencies for the project. Government commitment to use of the loan for technical
assistance and the incapacity of potential fellowship-holders in English language were not adequately
appraised and necessitated time-consuming adjustments during implementation, including a search for
grant aid and local and regional technical assistance sources.
Despite this weakness, sustainability is licely because two subsequent projects further
advance the Government's human resource development strategy, and increased costs arising from the
increased access and further prospective quality enhancements are not considered of such magnitude
as to cause undue budgetary stress.
The conclusions of the PCR Part I are adequately argued and supported by data. More
policy-related background on the adequacy of the diversified (academic with vocational) school
strategy in the country context would have been a worthwhile additional contribution, given that
issues surrounding the viability of diversified secondary education continue to concern the Bank and
Borrowers.
An audit is planned for this project as a cluster with two later projects.
Attachment                                         (1:~
uThis document has a ycntd othrwibuson and ay be used by WopleBnt only in .e iommac d their t ;cid   m
dufee. ts contents may not othemrAse be disclosed wiFout Wodd i3ank authofzation.



FOR OFFMCLl USE ONLY
THE HASEEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2378-JO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pacre No.
Preface    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .i.i.
I.     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
A. Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        1 . . . . .
B. Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
C. Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
D. Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
E. Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Project Management.. ................. 4
Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
P. Project Costs and Loan Allocations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
G. Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
New Compulsory and General Secondary Schools  . . . . . . . . .  6
Extensions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
H. Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
I. Bank Performance during Project Cycle  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  S
J. Borrower Performance during Project Cycle  . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
K. Project Relationships  . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
L. Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . .  9
M. Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
N. Conclusions and Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
II    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise-te disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ItI   STATISTICAL !nORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
TABLa 1:  IBRD Loans Relevant to the Project  ... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 13
TABLE 2:  Planned, Revised, and Actual Dates
of Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
TABLE 3: Cumulativ  Estimated and Actual
Disbursements ............ . . . . . . . . .. IS
TABLE 4: Project Implementation: Key Project Indicators  . . . . . . 16
TABLE 5: Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
TABLE 6: Project Financing . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
TABLE 7: Allocation of Loan Proceeds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
TABLE 8:  Direct Benefits of Project:Enrollments
in Project Institutions.  ............... . 19
TABLE 9:  Compliance with Loan Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
TABLE 10  Mission Data by Stages of Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Annex 1:  Participants in Completion Mission  . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
MAP  -  IBPD 17475 R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
SIXTH EDUCA?9TI   PROJECT
>ILOAN 2378-JO)
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sixth
Education Project in Jordan, for which Loan 2378-JO in the amount of US$ 40.0
million was approved on February 2, 1984 and the agreement was signed on March
8, 1984. The loan closed on May 31, 1993 after four extensions of the Closing
Date (the original Closing Date was December 31, 1989). Actual disbursements
were about US$37.38 million, about US$2.62 million short of the original loan
amount.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Division of the Middle East and North Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Part I, Part III). On April 18, 1993, the Bank gave the Borrower
Parts I and III with the request to prepare Part II by June 15, 1993, but no
reply has been received.
The preparation of this was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in February 1993, and is based on
information contained in the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
internal Bank Memoranda, and discussions with Bank and Borrower staff.



- iii -
THE HASHEMITS KINGDOMQOF JORDAN
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(GENERAL EDUCA?ION)
(LOAN 2378-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.          Jordans GDP grew rapidly (nine percent per annum) during the late
1970s and early 19809. Substantial employment opportunities were available in
neighboring oil-rich countries for relatively well educated and trained
Jordanian labor, generating large inflows of remittance income. GIven
Jordan's limited natural resources, economic and educational planners were
convinced that human resources were the country's most important productive
asset and, therefore, that investment in education and training should be
given top priority.
ii.         In line with this strategy, the Bank continued its support to
Jordan's educational development effort which started in the early 1970s, and
the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Education Projects were approved in rapid
succession (December 1981, March 1983, and February 1984, respectively). The
first two dealt mainly with training, while the Sixth Education Project
focused on expansion and quality improvement of general education.
Project Obiectives
iii.        The project objectives were to support key elements of the
Government's five-year educational development plan and to facilitate the
expansion and improve the conditions of compulsory and general secondary
schools while enhancing prevocational programs and continuing the effort to
strengthen MOE's institutional capacity. These goals were to be achieved
through: (a) constructing, equipping and furnishing 31 compulsory and 16
general secondary schools; (b) constructing, equipping and furnishing 48
additional science laboratories, 49 additional libraries, snd 50 additional
multi-purpose workshops for existing upper secondary schools; and (c)
technical assistance in support of project objectives, including fellowships
for instructor training and institution building, together with specialist
services for in-service teacher training, and for pre-investment studies for a
possible follow-up project. During implementation, the project was modified
to (a) include six additional compulsory schools (March, 1988); and (b)
construct laboratories, multipurpose workshops, libraries and audiovisual
rooms (specialized facilities) for 52 existing general secondary schools
(April 1992).
implementation Exoerience
iv.         Implementation of the original physical components was smooth and
on schedule, but there-were long delays in the implementation of technical
assistance and the additional physical components introduced during project



-iv-
implementation. Some of the main issues encountered during implementation
included: (a) problems in project management caused by changes in the Project
Implementation Directorate; (b) procurement problems in dealing with deficient
deliveries; (c) long delays in the implementation of technical assistance,
starting with the search for external financing sources and continuing because
of inadequate proficiency of fellowship candidates in the English language,
coupled with lengthy bureaucratic procedures and unfavorable political
conditions; (d) delays in the implementation of the additional components, in
particular of the 52 extensions added in April 1992, because of difficulties
in getting contractors to bid for small projects scattered throughout the
country, and of administrative changes in school construction arrangements;
(e) problems with the quality of some locally manufactured fxrniture; and (f)
lower than expected enrollments in the project's compulsory schools for girls.
V.          All issues were successfully resolved by the Government in close
collaboration with Bank supervision missions, except for the delays in the
implementation of the additional physical component which resulted in four
extensions of the Closing Date of the project; and for a small part of the S2
extensions added in April 1992 which were not completed by the final Closing
Date of May 31, 1993.- Two extensions of the terminal date for Loan
Effectiveness were needed due to delays in the completion of ratification of
the legal documents by Parliament, so the 8ffectiveness date (December 11,
1984) was about five months after the original estimated date of
Effectiveness.
Prolect Results-
vi.         Despite delays in the execution of the additional physical
components and in the implementation of the TA program, the Sixth Education
project was successful, as it helped to: (a) increase the capacity of the
education system--of the 50,200 student places provided, about 40 percent were
for new enrollments; (b) enhance female participation--some 67 percent of the
total places provided were for females; (c) improve the quality of instruction
by replacing rented schools and reducing double shifting--46 rented schools
were closed and double shifting was eliminated from 18 schools; (d) promote
science teaching and pre-vocational instruction, mainly through the
laboratories and workshops provided and the instructor training program; and
{e) strengthen the institutional capacity of MO4, through the institution
building fellowship program.
vii.        Content and timing were also appropriate, as the project dealt
mainly with general education at a time when the demand for skilled labor in
the local and neighboring markets started to diminish. Despite the long
delays encountered, implementation of technical assistance was successful and
helped to enhance the institutional capacity of MOE and pre-vocational
instruction. Delays in the implementation of the additional physical
components (six additional compulsory schools and additions for 52 existing
general secondary schools) were, to a large extent, due to reasons beyond
MO4s control. Finally, excellent collaboration was achieved between
Government officials at all levels and Bank supervision missions.



Prolect Sustainabilitv
viii.       The fact that the project is fully integrated into the educational
system, to which the Government attaches high priority, will help assure its
sustainability. When the project schools reach their full capacity, the
additional recurrent expenditures required for their operation will be of the
order of JD 19. million, or 2.1% of the MOE's recurrent budget. Future
strengthening of the school building maintenance system will be a key element
in ensuring the project's sustainability.
Lessons Learned
ix.         The two main lessons learned from the implementation of this
project can be summarized as follows:
(a)   adding components, even when Government assurances are received that
additional works would be completed in a timely fashion (as in the case
of this project), should be very carefully scrutinized and should be
- subject to strict timetables if approved (para. 12); and
(b)   estimating enrollment growth by sex for project schools is a complicated
process and factors such as past trends, culture, and regional
variations should be carefully taken into account (para. 23).



PROJECT COMPLETION RPOR
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2378-JO)
PRMT I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK' S PERSPECIVE
A.    Proiect Identity
Project Name:                 Sixth Education Project
Loan Number                   2378-jO
RVP Unit    :Middle East and North Africa
Region, Country Department II
Country                       The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Sector      :                 Education
Sub-sector                    General
S.    Proi ect Backaround
1.          In view of its sparse endowment of water and mineral resources,
Jordan's most important productive asset is its human capital.  The rapid
economic growth (nine percent per annum) experienced in the late 1970s and
early 1980s and the lucrative employment opportunities for well qualified
Jordanian manpower in the oil-exporting Gulf countries (with consequent high
levels of foreign exchange remittances), led the Government to invest heavily
in education and training. The 1981-85 Development Plan allocated the
equivalent of US$650 million to investment in education and US$30 million to
investment in training, corresponding to some five percent of GNP.
2.          The Governmentvs strong commitment to human resources development
was evident in the progress achieved in improving access to education.
Between 1975 and 1982, enrollments increased by about 30 percent at the
primary level (grades one to six), 88 percent at the preparatory level (grades
seven to nine), and 178 percent at the secondary level (grades 10-12). During
the same period, female enrollments as a percentage of total enrollments rose
from 46 percent to 48 percent at the primary level, from 43 percent to 46
percent at the preparatory level, and from 37 percent to 46 percent at the
secondary level.
3.          The principal priorities of the 1981-85 Plan for Education were
to: (a) expand compulsory schooling (grades one to nine) from 91 percent of
the relevant age group in 1980 to 94 percent in 1985; (b) expand the access of
children from rural families to preparatory and secondary grades: (c) improve
the quality of education, particularly in science, by providing adequate
laboratories, teaching materials and libraries, upgrading teacher



2-
qualifications, replacing rented schools, and ellmiamting double shifting; (d)
increase female participation at the compulsory and secondary levels; (e)
generalize the pilot program of prevocational instruction in grades five
through twelve; and (f) provide the necessary trained manpower to meet the
evolving demands of the Jordanian economy and of other Arab countries.
4.          The Bank was ready to support the Government's Bducation
Development Plan with new lending. The sixth Education Project was conceived
in early 1982 together with the Fifth Education Project. At that time, it was
decided that the Bank's participation should be in the form of two operations
(Education V and Education VI), in rapid succession to each other, rather than
in one larger operation. This would allow greater flexibility to potential
cofinanciars, avoid overtaxing the MOE's implementation capacity, and permit
the speedy construction of a nuxaber of schools for which sites were already
available.
C.    Proeet Wectives and Descrintion
S.          The Sixth Education Project (Loan 2378-JO) was approved on
February 2, 1984. Its main objectives were to support key elements of the
Five-year Plan, particularly to facilitate the expansion and improve the
conditions of compulsory and general secondary schools while enhancing
implementation of pre-vocational programs. It also continued the effort
initiated in earlier projects to strengthen MOE's institutional capacity in
project preparation and implementation.
7.          Project objectives were to be achieved through:  (a) constructing,
equipping and furnishing 31 compulsory and 16 general secondary schools (some
28,000 and 16,000 student places, respectively); (b) constructing, equipping
and furnishing 48 additional science laboratories, 49 additional libraries and
50 multi-purpose workshops for 53 existing upper general secondary schools;
and (c) technical assistance in support of project objectives, namely
fellowships for instructor training and institution building, together with
specialist services for in-service teacher training and for pre-investment
studies leading to future lending.
8.          During implementation the project was modified, at the request of
the Government, to include construction, equipping and furnishing of six
additional compulsory schools (February 1988), and laboratories, multi-purpose
workshops, libraries and audiovisual rooms for approximately 52 existing
general secondary schools (April 1992).
D.    Pro1ect Desion and Oruanization
9.          The project's design was clear and understood by all parties.  It
was designed to contribute to the Government's educational goals, in
particular: (a) expand compulsory schooling: about one-half of the student
places proposed were to absorb additional enrollments; (b) improve the



-3-
conditions of education, through the replacement of rented schools, reduction
of double shifts, and provision of specialized facilities; (c) raise female
participation (about two-thirds of tnie places at the compulsory level and 40
percent at the secondary level were for girls); and (d) generalize pre-
vocational instruction through the provision of multi-purpose workshops and
fellowships for instructo; training.
10.         The main innovative element in the project was the instructor
fellowship program which was, for the first time, entrusted to an Arab country
(Tunisia). Also, an improved school construction model was adopted, developed
by Yarmouk University with considerable input from the Bank.
E.    Project Implementation
Imnlementation Schedule
11.          Two extensions of the terminal date for Loan effectiveness were
needed due to delays in the completion of ratification of the legal documents
by the Jordanian Parliament, so the actual Effectiveness date (December 11,
1984) was about five months after the original estimated Effectiveness date.
construction of the original civil works components of the project was
completed by November 1988, some 13 montlie prior to the project's original
closing Date, as foreseen at appraisal. Furniture and equipment were procured
with some three months' Aelay compared to the appraisal schedule, but about
two months ahead of the original Closing Date. At appraisal, a sum of US$ 1.7
million was included for Bank financing of technical but, at the Government's
request, a grant from USAID was substituted for this purpose. Technical
assistance was implemented to a large extent, although with long delays caused
by lengthy negotiations with the funding agency and low proficiency in the
English language of fellowship candidates, coupled with the exogenous
political conditions created by the Gulf crisis.
12.         These delays, together with the insertion of additional components
during project implementation (six compulsory schools in February 1988 and 52
specialized facilities blocks in April 1992), resulted in four extensions of
the project's Closing Date (from December 31, 1989 to December 31, 1990; to
December 31, 1991; to December 31, 1992 and to May 31, 1993). Implementation
of technical assistance was effectively completed in December 1992.
Construction of the six additional schools was completed in March 1992.
Construction of the specialized facilities is still underway; most (40 out of
52) have been completed, but 12 were at different stages of completion by the
final Closing Date of May 31, 1993. The Bank's financing share for the
uncompleted work, estimated at some US$ 0.3 million, will be borne by the
Government.
13.         Delays in construction were caused by site problems at two of the
six additional compulsory schools, together with the consequences of the Gulf
crisis, the split of responsibility for school construction between MOE and
the Ministry of Public Works and Housing, and difficulties in getting
contractors to bid for small projects scattered throughout the country, which
hindered the timely completion of the additional specialized facilities.



-4-
Prolect Management
14.         With the exception of the troubled implementation of the technical
assistance component and delays in construction of the additional physical
components, overall project management was satisfactory.
15.         In 14ovember 1987, the Directorate of Projects (DOP), which had
exclusive responsibility for the implementation of Bank projects and was
accountable to the MOE Secretary General, was dissolved, and the General
Directorate of Projects and School Buildings was created with three major
Directorates: Engineering Affairs (responsible for all school buildings),
School Building Services (responsible for school maintenance and rentals), and
Project Services (responsible for technical assistance, procurement and
accounting in Bank projects). This change was acceptable to the Bank.
However, further changes caused difficulties.
16.         In April, 1990, the main responsibility for school construction
was transferred from MOE to the Ministry of Public Works and Housing (MPWH)
with the former having merely a consultative role. Implementation problems
associated with the many and diverse priorities of MPWH resulting from the
split of inter-ministerial responsibility contributed substantially to the
slow completion of the additional component of 52 specialized facilities. In
addition, in August 1991, the Directorate of Project Services was dissolved,
with the Division of Technical Assistance transferred to the Directorate of
Cultural Affairs, and the Divisions of Procurement and Project Accounts to the
Directorates of Supplies and Accounts respectively, under the General
Directorate of Financial Affairs. This change left the Bank without a direct
counterpart for project management and coordination. Bank supervision
missions in December 1991 and July 1992 discussed this problem with the
competent authorities and these decisions were duly reversed: the Project
Services Directorate was re-established in December 1991, and responsibility
for school construction was reinstated with the MOE in October 1992.
Procurement
17.         Procurement procedures were adequate and in conformity with Bank
guidelines. One problem, however, surfrzed during project implementation: MOE
officials pointed out that the payment policy for imported items (which was to
advance 100* of the agreed sum upon presentation of shipping documents), left
the Government no leverage for coping with items which were defective or did
not comply with technical specifications. To resolve this problem, they
proposed that: (a) only 70% of the total amount be paid upon presentation of
the shipping documents; (bl a black-list of non-reliable companies be
established; and (c) the requirement for full representation of foreign firms
by local agencies be strengthened. The July 1992 Bank supervision mission
pointed out that the 100l payment policy was a Government decision and that
the current Bank procurement guidelines stipulate only that advance payment
should be in line with international commercial practices applicable to the
goods and works and the market in question, and that bidding documents should
specify the payment method and terms offered. The mission also explained that
the Bank has no objection to black-listing unreliable companies or to
strengthening local representation.



-s-
18.         The Government studied the situation and informed the Bank that
the practice had been changed and that 20 percent of the contract amount would
be withheld until inspection and acceptance of goods; local representation had
been mandatory. However, the practice of blacklisting -unreliable companies,
although applied unofficially, did not yield the expected results, as many
companies with problems submitted subsequent bids under different names.
P.    Proiect Costs and Loan Allocations
19.         The total estimated cost of the project at appraisal was US$122.0
million, including 33.8 percent physical and price contingencies. The foreign
exchange component was estimated at US$61.2 million or 50.2 percent of the
total and the Bank loan was for US$40.0 million. The Government secured
US$9.7 million from the Islamic Bank for the financing of secondary school
construction and a grant of US$0.6 million from USAID for technical
assistance.
20.         There were large cost under-runs.  Despite the construction of six
additional compuisory schools and 52 extensions of specialized facilities,
total project costs were only about US$103 million, considerably lower than
the UE$122 million estimated at appraisal.  With respect to the Bank's US$40.0
millicn loan, US$37.4 million (or 94 percent of the loan amount) were
disbursed. The main reasons for the disbursement shortfalls were: (a) the
fact that the US$ 1.7 million foreseen for technical assistance was not used
for this purpose (para. 11); and (b) overall contingencies were overestimated
at appraisal, as there were unit cost changes resulting from the devaluation
of the Jordanian Dinar during the project implementation period. In fact,
constructiou costs remained practically constant throughout the project and
the average cost per student place, including contingencies and professional
fees, was similar to that estimated at appraisal net of contingencies and
professional fees.
G.    Proiect Results
Overview
21.         The overall objectives of the Sixth Education Project were
achieved. The project increased the capacity of the education system;
promoted female participation (about 67 percent of student places provided
were for girls); and improved schooling conditions and education quality by
replacing rented facilities, reducing double shifting, and providing
specialized facilities to schools. In addition, 13 out of the 37 compulsory
schools and 11 out of the 16 secondary schools are in small towns and rural
areas, thus contributing to improved access to education. By 1990, the
overall participation rate of the 6-15 year old population reached 94.2
rercent and female participation reached 48.4 percent of the total at the
compulsory level (grades one to ten) and 51.2 percent in general secondary
education (grades 11-12), but lagged behind in vocational education (34.6
percent). The average female participation in secondary education was 47
percent.



22.         As already noted, the project encountered long delays in the
implementation of technical assistance and delays in the implementation of the
additional components and in particular of the 52 extensions added in April
1992. The project also experienced problems with the quality of some locally
manufactured furniture and lower than expected enrollments Irl the compulsory
schools for girls financed under the project.
23.         The technical assistance nroblem appears to be endemic and stems
from the Government's policy of seeking grant financing for technical
assistance. Long negotiations of the TA contract with USAID, coupled with
cumbersome bureaucratic procedures, a slow implementation pace and the 1990/91
Gulf Crisis were the main reasons for the observed delays. Delays in the
im,lementation of the 52 extensions stem mainly from the split of
responsibility for school construction between MOE and MPWH and difficulties
in getting contractors to bid for small-size projects scattered throughout the
country. Although the split of responsibility problem has been resolved,
there are still some organizational problems within the M0E which need to be
resolved. In fact, a reorganization of the Engineering Affairs Directorate,
including decentralization at the Governorate level, is undexway. In general,
the auality of locally manufactured furniture is uneven, depending on the
contractor. Supervision missions have observed that a number of pieces of
furniture (desks, stools and chairs) supplied to project schools were of
inferior quality and had to be repaired repeatedly. Enrollments in cairls
comnulsorv schools are only 66 percent of those estimated at appraisal, due to
insufficient demand. This appears to be the result of excessive optimism
during appraisal in supporting innovative policy trends, as there was no
apparent justification for female student places to be 79 percent of the total
to be provided, as opposed to the enrollment increases which were actually
achieved (para. 21).
New Comwulsory and General Secondary Schools
24.         The sites visited by the supervision missions were well selected
and located and the layouts provided pleasant environments appropriate to
their functional requirements. The buildings are well planned and provide the
necessary facilities, but some of the secondary school playgrounds were found
to be small.  In general, construction was well carried out and adequately
supervised.
25.         The new student places provided roughly correspond to the
appraisal estimates (44,180 provided as against 44,530 proposed), plus 6000
places provided by the six additional compulsory schools. However, compulsory
(now called basic) schools, now include ten grades and secondary schools two
grades, as opposed to nine and three, respectively, at the time of appraisal.
It appears that some of the secondary schools also accommodate some basic
school grades and vice versa, especially in areas where children of returnees
from the Gulf states following the Gulf crisis had to be urgently absorbed.
At present, enrollments in basic schools (a total of some 27,600 including the
six additional schools) are about 80 percent of those envisaged at appraisal.
Female enrollments are or.ly 66 percent of those estimated, but some schools
still have an incomplete number of grades. On the othar hand, male
enrollments in basic schools exceeded the appraisal target by 33 percent. In



-7
secondary schools, enrollments (some 14,200) are 90 percent of those
estimated, about equally divided between girls and boys.
26.         The project aimed to improve the quality of instruction by
replacing rented schools (some 150 classrooms in the basic cycle and 110 in
the secondary cycle) and by reducing double shifting. Both goals were
achieved satisfactorily. Overall, 46 rented schools have been replaced,
including some 160 basic cycle and 120 secondary cycle classrooms. Double
shifting was eliminated from 23 schools, but five of the project schools are
running a second shift.
27.         The gross area per student place is slightly lower than proposed
at appraisal for the basic cycle (4.3 square meters as against 4.51 but
identical to appraisal estimates (4.9 square meters) for the secondary cycle.
Construction costs were similar to appraisal estimates for both levels of
schools, but furniture and equipment costs were only 51 percent of those
estimated for basic schools and 54.5 percent of the estimates for secondary
schools. Despite these lower than estimated costs, equipment is adequate.
Extensions
28.         Extensions originally included in the project were completed on
schedule (July 1988) and provided valuable facilities to existing schools. If
the use of such facilities is properly programmed, they will enable the
extended schools to accommodate some 2000-2500 additional students. The
multi-purpose workshops are actively used for pre-vocational instruction, and
several schools are also using these facilities in out-of-school hours for
community activities. Of the 52 extensions added to the project in April
1992, only 40 were completed by the final Closing Date (May 31,1993) and the
Government will bear the total costs for the remaining construction work. All
furniture and equipment has been purchased.
H.   Proiect Sustainabilitv
29.         Basic and general secondary schools constitute the backbone of the
education system and adequate facilities are important for good quality
instruction. Project schools will all soon reach their target enrollments,
and the expenditures for their operation will be equalized with the norm for
the education system, estimated at an average of JD 102 per student year (JD
98 for basic and 144 for general secondary) at 1990 prices. When the project
schools (including the six additional compulsory schools) reach their full
capacity, the total expenditure required for their operation will be about J3T
5.5 million, allowing a 10 percent increase for improved instruction.
However, as some 16,000 of the basic school places and 12,000 of secondary
school places are taken by students who were already in the system (rented
schools), the additional recurrent expenditures will be only about JD 1.9
million or 2.1 percent of the MOE recurrent budget, but some additional JD
98,000 per annum will be saved from rentals.
30.         In the future, the education quality improvement policy pursued by
the Educational Reform through the provision of specialized facilities,



curricula revision, introduction of new textbooks, and teacher upgrading and
updating, is bound to raise the per-student cost of education for the whole
education system. However, the fact that the project is fully integrated into
the educational system will help assure its sustainability. Investment in
education and training remains among the Government's top priorities, so
financing is expected to be forthcoming. The school maintenance problem needs
to be given further attention.
I.    Bank Performance durinu Proiect Cycle
31.         Bank performance in the conceptualization and implementation of
the Sixth Education Project was satisfactory. Both the objectives and the
content of the project were appropriate and contributed substantially to
improving the Government's education strategy. In order to further contribute
to the educational objectives of the project, the Bank agreed to amend the
loan agreement twice to include additional physical components (six additional
compulsory schools and 52 extensions consisting of laboratories, libraries,
workshops, and audiovisual rooms). Also, the Bank responded promptly to a
request from the Government to accept USAID financing of technical assistance
and to replace foreign specialist services with local services.
J.    Borrower Performance durine Proiect Cycle
32.         MOE acted promptly in expediting actions necessary for project
processing, and the original physical project components were completed
broadly on schedule. Delays in the implementation of technical assistance
were outside MOE's control, as the decision not to use project funds for this
purpose was part of overall Government policy. Once the instructor training
program was re-launched in April 1992, MOE's management was exemplary in
collaborating with USAID to complete the program by the end of that year .'
the other hand, delays in the implementation of the additional components were
related to belated MOE requests for including such components under the
project, and, particularly for the 52 extensions, to the Gulf crisis and to
the reluctance of contractors to bid for small projects.
33.         Some project management difficulties developed late during
implementation but were promptly resolved without seriously affecting the
implementation process. MOE quarterly progress reports were regularly
submitted, thorough and of good quality. The Special Account which was
established in January 1986 was, after some initial difficulties, effectively
used during implementation and helped to avoid delays in payments to
contractors.
34.         In general, covenants were duly complied with.  All project sites
were acquired on time and project accounts were audited regularly and audit
reports submitted without delay. Regular progress reports were prepared and
furnished to the Bank, and the MOE provided the Project Completion mission of
February 1993 with all data needed. However, implementation of the technical
assistance component was superseded by the changes described earlier (para.
11). However, the Technical assistance program was effectively completed in



-9
December 1992, through USAID-financed instructor training and institution-
building fellowships, and pre-investment studies were carried out with Bank
assistance.
K. Proiect Relationshins
35.         Project files show that supervision was regular throughout project
implementation. The Bank, through its supervision missions, developed an
excellent working relationship with the Government authorities involved in
project implementation and was instrumental in reaching agreements to
reinstate responsibility for school construction within the MON, and
reassemble the Project Services Directorate. Also, the Bank worked out, in
collaboration with MOE officials, a revised quarterly Progress Report which
has since been adopted by the MON. Finally, the eagerness of MOE officials at
all levels, including H.E. the Minister of Education, to collaborate closely
with supervision missions contributed substantially to better understanding oa
both sides of the difficulties and problems encountered and to the design and
implementation of appropriate solutions.
L. Consultinu Services
36.           The appraisal proposal included a technical assistance package
to be financed by the Bank at an estimated US$1.7 million. The package
comprised: 183 p/m. (person/months) of fellowships for upgrading 49 instructors
for technical schools and prevocational activities; 85 p/m of institution
building fellowships for 24 MOB officials; 21 p/m. of specialist services for
in-service teacher training and industrial electronics; and 48 p/mr of
specialist services for pre-investment studies for subsequent projects,
including a feasibility study for science equipment production.
Implementation of fellowships was to start in June 1984 and to be completed in
December 1986, and that of specialist services also to start in June 1984 but
be completed .n June 1986.
37.         The Government considered that grant funds should be sought for
financing technical assistance. Accordingly, it started exploring
possibilities for ensuring such assistance via grants from multilateral or
bilateral agencies soon after loan effectiveness. In July 1984, the
Government proposed, and the Bank accepted, that specialist services be
provided by Jordanian universities, and that fellowships be financed through a
grant by USAID, leaving unutilized the US$ 1.7 million included in the project
for this purpose. Negotiations with USAID were lengthy and laborious, and it
was only in April 1985 that USAID indicated clearly its intention to allocate
US$ 0.6 million for this purpose. Processing of the agreement, which was
signed later in 1985, was also lengthy; implementation started with the
institution-building fellowships in April 1986, but the bulk of them were
executed during 1989. Seven institution-building fellowships for a total of
27 months were finally cancelled for lack of funds. Instructor training
started only in April 1992 and was completed by the end of the same year.
With regard to specialist services, the universities provided some inputs, but



- 10 -
pre-investment studies for future projects were mainly undertaken with direct
Bank assistance.
38.         In addition to procedural and processing difficulties,  a major
cause for the long delay in the implementation of technical assistance proved
to be the problem of inadequate proficiency of fellowship candidates in the
English language. Suitable candidates for the institution building component
were eventually found, but it was decided that the instructor training program
would be carried out in Tunisia, in Arabic, by the Tunisian Vocational
Training and Employment Office (VTEO/OPPE1). To this effect, a contract was
signed in December 1990, between the Government of Jordan, the USAID and the
OPPE for the equivalent of some US$ 200,000. Execution of the program was
suspended due to the Gulf crisis, when USAID decided to freeze the funds
available for both the instructor training program and the remaining
institution building fellowships. The funds were released again by February
1992 and implementation started in April and was completed in December 1992.
M. Proiect Documentation and Data
39.         Project records at Bank headquarters, including the working papers
of the preparation missions, supervision reports, and project monitoring
information were well documented and readily available for preparing the PCR.
The SAR was well documented and provided a suitable source of information for
monitoring the achievement of project objectives, and was an effective and
useful tool for all officials in charge of project implementation in the
field. Progress reports were well documented and timely, and facilitated the
work of the supervision missions. The legal document was also concise and
clear, and, together with the SAR assisted the implementing agency in the
execution of project-related activities.
N. Conclusions and Lessons Learned
40.         The principal conclusions and lessons learned include the
following:
41.         Technical Assistance.  In retrospect, the appraisal mission should
have explored the possibility of proposing local specialist services rather
than foreign consultants, as the Government requested this change, which was
accepted by the Bank, soon after loan effectiveness. The Bank realizes that
there is a Government principle to contract technical assistance only via
grants, but the Government should be ready to make exceptions to this
principle in cases in which delays could jeopardize the implementation of
related substantive components of the project.
42.         Apnraisal Estimates. Enrollments in compulsory schools for girls
were overestimated at appraisal, while enrollments for boys were
underestimated. Enrollments in compulsory schools for girls are at present
only 66 percent of estimates, while those in schools for boys surpassed the
1/office de la Formation Professionnelle et 8mplois



- 12. -
appraisal targets by 33 percent. In retrospect, it appears that allocating 79
percent of the total student places provided at this level (including the six
additional schools) to female students was too optimistic in a system where
female participation in compulsory education was already over 46 percent of
the total and where the main reasons for lower attendance are cultural rather
than the lack of school places. The rapid growth of the school-age population
suggests that before long all schools will reach their full capacity.
Finally, the internal efficiency of the education system was overestimated at
appraisal in projecting the output of project schools.
43.         School Construction.  Delays in construction of the additional
physical components were attributed mainly to administrative deficiencies
(because of split responsibilities between MOB and MPWH) and, later, to
structural and organizational inadequacies within the MOE. The former problem
has been resolved, while the latter is being handled through the
reorganization and restructuring of the MOE Engineering Affairs Directorate.
Maintenance is among the most critical problems for the MOE. Budget
allocations adequately cover emergency cases, but there is no overall
systematic maintenance program. Establishment of a "maintenance system",
delineation of responsibilities, and reorganization of the MOE School Building
Services Directorate (which is responsible for maintenance), are among the
measures being taken with Bank assistance in the Seventh Education Project.
Recent Bank supervision missions proposed that a special "School Maintenance
Fund" be established to help repair school buildings in bad condition so that
only routine maintenance would be required thereafter.
44.         Additional Components. Adding components, even when Government
assurances are received that additional works would be completed in a timely
fashion (as in the case of this project), should be very carefully scrutinized
and should be subject to strict timetables if approved.



- 12 _
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW pROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Adecuacg  and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III:
Information, data and defining the project profile included in Part III
were well prepared and discussed thoroughly both in field and on tables.
They served as the basis for tables in Part III.
B.    Bank Performance:
Bank successive missions personnel were generally recognized as
professionals in all respects. The members in all missions were always
highly qualified and experienced in their respective fields, but there
were few occasions when supervision missions visited the kingdom, a
specialist in accountancy of financial affairs was not among to discuss
financial matters and procedures with our accountants, and to address
some kinds of implementation financial problems occurring. All the
missions' visits were on time of which we were informed in advance.
C.    Borrower's Performance:
The performance of the participating institutions in overall was good,
except for the implementation of the Technical Assistance Program, for
the USAID, as a financing and implementing agency was not carrying out
the program according to schedule. The money allocated as a budget by
the USAID for this purpose had been used up completely long before
covering all the fellowships in the schedule. So we were informed to
cancel the remaining fellowships. Moreover there had been so many
delays in the implementation.
The implementation of procurement of equipment was satisfactory, except
for that part concerning the Indian Suppliers. The quality of the
Indian equipment was not up to specifications and, therefore, it was
inadequate. This had negative effect on project implementation.
The implementation of the civil works was quite good and there were no
delays in their completion.
D.    Lessons Learned:
It is very necessary to keep the overall communications between the Bank
and the Borrower documented, especially those concerning the Accounts,
and to keep mission members visiting the kingdom informed, not only of
the information included in the Appraisal Report, but of the very up-to-
date documents and amendments also.
The supervision missions' visits were all scheduled beforehand, and so
this enabled both the missions' members and the staff of the
implementation unit to prepare information needed in advance to be
discussed and followed up.



- 13 -
PART IIt
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:  IBRD LOANS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Loan/Credit                         Year of
Title          Purpose.          Approval    Status
Cr. 285-JO        Improve quality of      1972         Completed
Education I       education; increase
supply of skilled
manpower.
Cr. 534-JO        Improve quality of       1975        Completed
Education II      education; increase
supply of skilled
manpower.
Lu. 1781-JO       Improve quality of       1979        Completed
Education III     education; increase
supply of skilled
manpower.
Lu. 2068-JO       Improve quality of       198.        Completed
Education IV      education; increase
supply of skilled
manpower.
Ln. 2246-JO       Increase supply of       1983        Completed
Education V       skilled manpower; provide
access to basic schooling
for nomadic populations;
strengthen Ministry of
Education
Ln. 2870-JO       Improve quality          1987        Progress satisfactory
Education VII     and expand coverage of
compulsory education.
Lu. 3106-JO       Support the govern-      1989        Progress satisfactory
Human Resources   ment's 10-year Educa-
Development       tion Reform Program.
Sector Investment
Loan



- 14 -
MIS 2: PLANNED, RBVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Planned            Revised               Actual
Initiating                                                   4/16/82
Project Brief
Identification     S/20/82                                   6/15/82
Mission
Preparation        10/10/82                                  10/10/82
Mission
Appraisal Mission  3/22/83                                   3/22/83
Post-Appraisal     8/14/83                                   8/14/83
Mission
Loan Negotiations  11/14/83           |                      11/28/83
Board Approval     1/31/84             _     _        - _    2/2/84
Loan Signature     3/8/84                                    3/8/84
Loan               7/9/84              10/9/84; 12/8/84      12/11/84
Effectiveness
Loan Closing Date  12/31/89            12/31/90; 12/31/91;  S/31/93
12/31/92; 05/31/93
=-omments:
(a) The effectiveness date was first extended from July 9, 1984 to
October 9, 1984 to allow time for completion of ratification of the legal
documents by the Jordanian parliament and the preparation of the legal
opinion. It was subsequently extended to December 8, 1984, to allow time for
constitutional requirements, i.e. about six weeks since the start of .the
session of the Jordanian Parliament which began on October 1, 1984.
(b) The Loan closing date was extended four times to allow for the completion
of components added during implementation and of the USAID-financed technical
assistance. The components added during implementation included six
additional compulsory schools, and laboratories, multi-purpose workshops,
libraries and audio-visual rooms for 52 existing general schools.



Table 3s  CU6ELATrVN ZSTITD ANID AC1TL D1S9USEM1STS
(Us$$ Million)
Bank Fiscal  |84      8S     8f   87             g1 I9o              91      g2      93
Ye        --
lpraisal      0.20   1.10   4. 80    17.20   29.60  38.00   40.00
Estimate
--a ~     ~ -5 -.                   .  - -  -_ -, _-
Actual        0.00   0.00   2.39    13.16   27.60   34.49   34.7?   3S.11   35.43   37.38
Actual as %   0.00   0.00   49.79   76.S2,  92.62  90.76   86.88   87.78  88.58   93.35
of Estimate
Date of Fial Dishursment: J%me 30, 1993
Cumulative Planned and Actual Disbursements
40
35
30
*25
220-
10.
84     85     86     87     88    89      90      91     92    93
Bank Rscal Years
1 Appraisal Esdmate U Ao:al        .



- 16 -
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION: KEY PROJECT INDICATORS
Indicators                       Targets                     Achievements
Schools
New Compulsory Schools            31                         37
New General Secondary Schools    16                          16
Extensions to Existing Schools   53                          53
Specialized Pacilities            52                         40
Technical Asgistance
Fellowships (number/man-months)
instructor Training              49/183                      49/183
Institution Building             24/71                       17/44
Ernerts {number/man-months)
Dir. of in-service Teacher        1/12                       n/a
Training
Dir. of Education                 l/9                        n/a
atudies (man-months)             48                          n/a
Comments:
(a) The specialized facilities for 52 existing schools were added to the
project in April 1992.
(b) The technical assistance component which originally was to be fineanced by
the Bank was eventually financed by USAID.
(c) Furniture and equipment for all new schools and extensions has been
acquired.
(d) Studies included preinvestment studies for a possible follow-up project.
These were not implemented as such, but the preinvestment studies were carried
out with direct Bank assistance.



- 17 -
=16 S., PROECT COSTS
(US$ mi.1 lion)
Estiated Costs                          Atual SQgt
Category        Local         Foreign      Total        Local        Foreign      Total
Costs        Costs        Costs        Costs        Costs         Costs
Civil Works    42.34         29.07         71.41        56.69        28.25        84.94
Furniture and  3.44          15.04         18.48        7.70         9.68         17.38
Equipment
Technical       0.13          1.15         1.28         0.30         0.30         0.60
Assistance
Czntingencies   14.85         lS.98        30.83
Total           60.76         61.24        122.00       64.69        38.23        102.92
Comments:
In February 1988, construction, equipping and furnishing of six additional
compulsory schools was added to the project. Laboratories, multi-purpose workshops,
libraries and audiovisual rooms for 52 existing schools were added in December 1991.
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million)
Source of Punds                           Planed                  Actua
iBRD                                        40.00                  37.40
Government                                  82.00                 5S.22
Islamic Bank                                                        9.70
USAID                                                               0.60
Total                                     2122.00                 102.92
USAID provided US$0.6 million for technical assistance; and tha Islamic Bank
provided US$9.7 million for the financing of secondary school construction. Actual
project costs were lower than estimated due to the devaluation of the Jordanian
Dinar during implementation.



- 18 -
T}g It AMOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
(US$ million)
Orlalnal Allocation       Actual pisbursements
Civil Works               24.0                       26.1
Consultants, Services     0.8                        1.6
Equipment                 10.0                       9.7
Fellowships               0.8                        0.0
Uhallocated               4.4                        0.0
Conmmnts      e
Consultants' Services refers to professional services for civil works.



- 19 -
Table 8: DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT:
ENROLLMENTS IN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
A. 31 ComDug_ov Schools
Estimates                 Actual
Total                     28.670                     22.5,21
Girls                     22,200                     13,664
Boys                      6,4X0                      8,757
B. Six Additional ComDulsorv Schools
Total                     6.000                      5.185
Girls                     5,280                      4,423
Boys                      720                        765
C.  16 General Secondary Schools
Total                     15,860                     14.204
Girls                     6,450                      5,830
Boys                      9,410                      8,374



- 20 -
Table 9: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
T                               !            I      - Status of Compliance            S
1                               !            I------------------------------------I                                    I
i                               ! Source    I Conditions ! Action    ! Conditions  !
I Description of Covenant       i   of       I   Not       I Pending   !   Met                  Discussion
I                               !Covenant   I Comlied   I               1             !
iTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE           iSection     i      i                   i      X      I USAf financed instructor        i
itot later than June 15. 1984   i3.03 (a)    i             !            !             ! training and institution        I
'provide to the Bank for review !            !             !            I             ! building fellowship programs i
iand comments. a program for    !            !             !            !               was completed in December 1992.!
Icarrying out the activities    i            I             i            !             !                                 I
iprovided under Part 8 (1) and  I            !             !            !             !                                I
!(2) and after reviewngr        !                          I            !
Ithe Bank's comments thereon.   !            !             ! *          !             !
!lmplemrt such program in       i            !             !            !             I
iaccordance with a time schedule!            !             !            !             !
lsatisfactory to the Bank.      i            !             !
!Submit T.A. program for Bank   !                          I !                        !
treviei by December 31. 1983 -  !            !             I            !             I                                 !
land subsequently implement the !            !             !            !             I                                 1
!program.                       !            !     -         !          !                                               I
iCarry out the preinvesttent   i3.03 (b)    !              i            i    X        I Some preinvestment studies were!
istudles provided under Part B  1                   I                   I             ! carried out with Bank staff    ?
1(3) and (1i) provide to the    !            !             I            !             ! assistance. The German govern- i
!Bank for comuent a copy of such!            !             !            !             I ment helped to reinforce dam- !
istudies promtly upon their    !             !             !            I             I estic manufacturing of science !
!conpletion.                    i            i             i            i             ! equipment but no formal prein- !
!  !         !             !            !             ! vestment study to this effect  !
I            I             I            I !           Iwes executed.
!Furnish to the Bank at regular 13.04 (b)    i             I                          I !
lintervals all such Information !            !             !            i    X        I In compliance. Progress         i
las the Bank shall reasonably   !            !             i            I             ! reports were sent to theBw !
rquest concerning the project.!              i             i            !             J regularly.                      1
tits cost and. where appropriate!            !             !            !
fthe benefits to be derived from!            !             !            !             !                                I
li1t the exwnditure of the pro-i                           I            I             i !
lceeds of the Loan and the goods!            I             !            !             !                                I
land services financed out of   I            !             !            !             !                                I
'such proceeds.                 i            i             I            3
;                               i            !             !            !             !                                !
iNot later than six months afteri3.05 (d)    1             !            i      X        MOE provided the Project Cam- .
Ithe closing date or such later !                          i-           I !             pletion Mission of February    I
fdate as may beagreed for this I             !I                                       11993 with all data needed.
puirpose between tbe Borrower   !            i             !                          i                                i
land the Bank. the Borrower     !            I             !            !             !
Ishall prepare and furnish to   !            I             !            !             !                                !
!the Bank a report on project   !            !             i            !
!execution and accomplshments. !             !             !            !             !                                1
i                               !            !             !            !             !                                I
iTake all such action as may be 13.06        !             i            I      X      1 In compliance.                 I
!necessary to acquire not later !            i             I                          !
ithan June 30. 1984 all such    !            I             I            !             !
Iland and rights in respect of  i            !             I            !             !                                !
!land as shall be required for  i                          i              !
Icarrying out Part A of the     !I                         i !          !             !
IProject.                       !            !             !            !             t                                I
IAudit the project anmually and 14.02        1             I            t      X      I Audit reports submitted        I
Ifurnish theBank with cop       !            !             !            !             ! regularly. nearly two to three I
lwithin 8    months of fiscal yearw!         !             !            !             ! mnths after the end of the    I
lend.                           I            !             !            !             !fiscal year.



- 21-
Table 10: MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROM=cT
Type of           Date    No of            Specialization          Staff Weeks Mission
Persons           Represented              in Field
Identification    02/82       3            ET,EG,E                 6.5
Follow-up         07/82        1           ET                      4.5
Preparation       10/82        1           Er                      2.o
Appraisal         04/83        3           BO,NC,A                12.0
Supervision 1     12/85       4            ZC,EP,EA.A              2.6
Supervision 2     03/86       1            BP                      0.5
Supervision 3     11/86        1           EC                      1.5
Supervision 4     09/87       4            EG,ET,OA, A             2.0
Supervision 5     06/88        1           ET                      0.5
Supervision 6     02/89       1            A                       o.s
Supervision 7     06/90       1            ET                      0.7
Supervision 8     06/91       4            EP,ET.EG,A              2.5
Supervision 9     11/91       3            EP,A,OA                 1.0
Supervision 10    06/92       2            EP,A                    0.3
Supervision 11    01/93       2            EP,A                    0.5
Note; A = Architect: ENG   General Educator; ST - Technical Educator;
NA * Agricultural Educator; NP - Educational Planner; EC = Economist
OA - Operations Assistant.
Table 11: STAFF INPUTS
(Staff Weeks)
Fiseal Year    Peppraisal  Apprisal  Negotiation   Supervision    Other   Total
1982          2.1                                                      2.1
1983         12.4         24.0                                 2.2    386
1984                      11.3         5.1         1.5        5.6    23.5
1985                                               4.6                 4.6
1986                                              126           .5    13.1
1987                                               3.0                 3.0
988                                                63                  6.3
1989                                               2.6                 2.6
1990                                               3.7                 3.7
1991                                               3.9                 3.9
1992                                               9.7                 9.7
1993                                               9.7                 9.7
1994                                               .8                   .8
Totals        14.6         35.3         5.1        5&2          83    121A



- 22-
ParticiDants in CQmnletion Mission
World Bank
Mr. Stavros Syrimis, Consultant
Mr. Jim Antoniou, Architect Consultant
Ministry of Plannina
Mr. Safwan Touqan, Secretary General
Mr. Zeidoun Rashdan, Director, Social Sectors
Ministrv of Education
Mr. Abdul Razzaq Al-Ma'ani, Director General, Projects and School Buildings
Mr. Mohammad Attiyeh, Director, Project Services
Ms. Su'ad Farkouh, Director, Educational Technology
Ms. Bahjah Bitar, Director, Testing and Evaluation
Mr. Yahya Kisbi, Director, Engineering and Planning
!       Mr. Nawash Harp, Director, School Buildings Services
Mr. Mohammad Hiyari, Chief Accountant, World Bank Projects
Mr. Jamil Hiwjawi, Procurement officer, World Bank Projects



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:C
ii           **.N                              -            E.  .        Ks 
r) o~~~~~~~~
,l   z   g AS   t 0 W:4<e S~~~~~~~~~Z 
N                   C,)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~> C
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
It I
0     s,,              ;,                        [i            
~~\:3fE|1v ^---   >oUr   
.       1|        g             oj\\                        
.~      ' \t                          m    >-'                             '



