Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-37 02-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$40.0 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
December 29, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURMRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1982        July 1983
Currency Unit                      Jordan dinar (JD)            JD
US $1.00                              JD 0.35                 0.37
JD 1.000                              US$2.82                 2.72
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report JD1=US$2.67
Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DOP                           Directorate of Projects
GVSS                          General Vocational Secondary School
ICB                           International Competitive Bidding
MOE                           Ministry of Education
NPC                           National Planning Council
TA                            Technical Assistance
UNDP                          United Nations Development Programme
VTC                           Vocational Training Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower.                   The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Beneficiary:                Ministry of Education (MOE).
Amount:                     US$40.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                      17 years, including four years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:              The major objectives of the project are to replace
inadequate facilities and to provide additional
capacity in compulsory (grades 1-9) and general
secondary (grades 10-12) education, improve
availability of laboratories, libraries and
workshops in upper-secondary schools, and increase
the vocational content of curricula. In addition,
the project would contribute to the institutional
development of the MOE, already initiated under the
earlier Bank-financed education projects. The
project would include: (a) constructing,
equipping, and furnishing 25 compulsory schools and
7 general secondary schools for girls as well as 6
compulsory schools and 9 general secondary schools
for boys; (b) constructing, equipping and
furnishing science laboratories, libraries and
multi-purpose workshops for 53 existing upper
general secondary schools; and (c) technical
assistance for training instructors, education
planning and technology, project implementation and
preinvestment studies. The main beneficiaries of
the project are the compulsory and secondary school
age groups who will be better prepared for
employment. The project incorporates measures to
reinforce MOE project implementation capacity. The
project faces no special risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost; 1/                                    Local    Foreign    Total
Million----…--
Physical facilities
(Construction, equipment, furniture
and architectural services)
31 compulsory schools                       24.8        20.7        45.5
16 general secondary schools                15.2        14.3        29.5
Laboratories, libraries
and workshops for 53 upper general
secondary schools                           5.9         9.4        15.3
Support to MOE                                    0.1          0.8         0.9
Base cost                                   46.0        45.2        91.2
Contingencies
Physical                                     3.4         3.4         6.8
Price                                       11.4        12.6        24.0
Total Contingencies                               14.8        16.0        30.8
Total Cost                                       60.8         61.2       122.0
Financing Plan;
Government of Jordan                             60.6         15.7        76.3
Proposed World Bank Loan                           0.2        39.8        40.0
Suppliers and Export Credits                        -          5.7         5.7
Total Financing                                  60.8         61.2       122.0
1/ Does not include direct taxes and custom duties from which the project is
exempt.  Includes about $10 million indirect taxes on loca]ly purchased
project items.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements;   Bank FY   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
_ _ _ _ _  _   --------------- - T$Million   ----------------
Annual                       0.2    0.9    3.7   12.4    12.6    8.2    2.0
Cumulative                   0.2    1.1    4.8   17.2    29.8   38.0   40.0
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 4685-Jo, dated December 12, 1983.



N



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN FOR A
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan, to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of US$40.0 million equivalent to
help finance a Sixth Education Project in Jordan. The loan would be for a
17-year period, including 4 years of grace at the standard variable interest
P     rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY.!
2.       A report entitled "Jordan Review of the Five-Year Plan" (No. 4129-JO,
dated May 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1983. An
economic mission visited the country in May/June 1983; its findings have been
included in the present text. Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.       Jordan is a country of 2.4 million people (East Bank) with limited
natural resources and a traditionally service and trade-oriented economy. It
has enjoyed a high rate of growth and made good progress in developing
manufacturing production, increasing investment, and promoting exports. This
economic performance has taken place in the context of increasing trade with
neighboring countries, expanding inflow of remittances from Jordanians working
abroad, and substantial levels of foreign aid.
Recent Economic Developments
4.       Renewed stability following the disruptions of 1967-71, and the oil
boom in the region after 1973 created a climate conducive to sustained and
rapid economic growth during 1975-82, resulting in an average annual GDP
growth of over 10 percent in real terms. In 1982, GNP per capita reached
1,692. The upsurge of the economy was due to: (a) the rapid growth of the
mining and manufacturing sectors; (b) the sharp increase in construction,
particularly in housing and large public works; and (c) favorable external
factors, including booming conditions in the Gulf countries. While rainfed
agriculture suffered from a severe drought during the 1976-79 period and more
recently in 1981, vegetable and fruit production in the irrigated areas
increased significantly.
5.       The overall balance of payments remains strong despite a large
chronic deficit in merchandise trade. Exports of goods and non-factor
services increased by 32 percent annually at current prices from 1975 to
1/ Substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report for the
Energy Development Loan which was distributed to the Executive Directors
on December 1, 1983.



-2-
1981. This growth was due to high demand and prices for fruits and vegetables
in neighboring countries, booming exports of manufactured goods and a sharp
increase in receipts from tourism and other non-factor services. Jordanian
goods have been able to compete successfully in Middle East markets because of
the advantages of Arab Common Market and bilateral agreements, the relatively
good quality of the products, enterprising marketing and tlhe favorable
geographical location.  Although the growth in the volume of imports was
slower than that of exports, the resource gap increased in current terms f'rom
$560 million in 1975 to about $2,318 million in 1981. These trade deficits,
however, were fully compensated by factor income and transfers from abroad.
As a result, Government-guaranteed external borrowing remained within
reasonable limits and borrowing on commercial terms was reduced to a modest
level (para 15).
6.       Expenditure and domestic revenue of the Government: both increased at
a rate of about 23 percent per annum through 1976-81. The overall budget
deficits were financed by a rising volume of grants from Arab countries
following the Baghdad Summit Conference in 1978. Current expenditures,
excluding defense, were covered by domestic revenues. Defense expenditures
were largely financed by foreign grants.
7.       The main concerns of monetary policy have been mobilizing savings and
controlling domestic liquidity. Private savings have improved, but public
savings have continued to be negative because of the high level of defense
expenditures. To promote domestic savings, greater discretion is being
allowed the Central Bank in adjusting interest rates and banking commissions.
Increases in deposit rates were effected and haLve resulted in savings deposits
increasing faster than money supply. Together with a marked decline in
inflation to around 7 percenit in 1982-83, these increases have resulted in
interest rates becoming substantially positive again in real terms.
8.       In 1982, the rapid GNP growth slowed down to 7.4 percent, mainly aLs a
result of the slowdown in industry and construction. Exports and workers'
remittances also stagnated, reflecting the deceleration in ieconomic activity
in the neighboring oil producing countries. Appropriate Government policy
responses prevented this slowdown from creating balance of payments problems.
The Government reduced sharply the public investments following a decline in
grant aid, while private investments were slowed down by the near stagnation
of workers' remittances.  Construction activity and imports of machinery and
equipment declined in parallel to investments. As a result of investment
cut-backs, the overall public finance deficit exceeded only slightly the 1981
level, and foreign borrowing increased only moderately. The overall balance
of payments showed a slight deficit for the first time in four years and
foreign exchange reserves declined by some 12 p,ercent, but remained at over
three months' imports.
9.       Several indicators point to a further slowdown in the overall
economic growth rate to about 6 percent (in real terms) in 1.983, a
satisfactory performance considering the present unfavorable economic
environment; foreign grant aid is expected to decline by another 20 percent,
workers' remittances have stagnated while exports of manufactured goods and of
services to neighboring countries have slowed down or, as in the case of Iraq,
declined. These negative factors are compensated to some extent by a marked
increase in exports of raw and processed minera'Ls as the large fertilizer anad



-3-
potash projects have come on stream. In addition, imports are declining in
line with the sizable reduction in public and private investments, while the
Government has further intensified its domestic resource mobilization efforts
through cuts in subsidies and improved collection of direct and indirect
taxes. As a result, domestic resources are likely to exceed 90 percent of
current budget expenditures and the overall balance of payments is expected to
show a 35-40 percent lower current account deficit; this deficit is likely to
be more than covered by foreign grants and the proceeds of a $225 million
Eurodollar loan contracted in early 1983.
Medium-Term Prospects
.4        10.       The current Plan (1981-85) aimed at maintaining the rate of growth of
the economy close to that achieved during the previous plan. In terms of the
investment program, the Plan was ambitious--total investment would be
maintained at 3335 percent of GNP, 53 percent of which is by the Government.
The announced strategy is to pursue the objectives of the last decade, namely
to. (a) reduce the heavy dependence on external assistance while maintaining
rapid growth; (b) diversify the economy by increasing commodity production;
(c) reduce the budget deficit; and (d) improve the distribution of the
benefits of growth.
11.      Given the changed situation and outlook in the neighboring oil
producing countries and its impact on the availability of resources for
investment and public expenditures, continuing GDP growth in the 9-11 percent
range would no longer appear feasible.   Projections on the basis of revised
assumptions indicate that a rate of 5-6 percent p.a. in real terms appears
more likely. It is assumed that a reduction will take place in the
exceptionally high investment rate experienced during the early 1980's (40-45
percent of GNP). Industrial output, however, will benefit from the completion
of a number of major projects such as potash and fertilizer, now at initial
stages of production, and is likely to maintain an overall average annual
growth rate of about 10 percent. Barring serious disruptions in agricultural
output through unfavorable weather conditions, Jordan would realize a
significant increase in the share of commodity producing sectors in total
domestic output (from 38 percent to 43 percent) and thus correspondingly
reduce its traditional dependence on the services sector.
12.      The medium-term prospects for increasing exports remain promising.
The completion of the major export-oriented industrial projects, together with
the enterprise displayed by the private sector, should result in significant
increases in foreign exchange earnings after 1982. In agriculture, the
expected increase in vegetable and fruit exports will, however, be more than
offset by growing imports of food, and the agricultural trade deficit would
probably increase. Even though merchandise exports are projected to maintain
a high rate of increase (13 percent p.a. at constant prices) while imports
would grow at a significantly lower rate, the trade deficit could continue to
increase and could exceed the two billion dollar mark by 1984. In relation to
GNP, however, the resource gap is expected to show a significant further
decline (from 62 percent to 48 percent). Unlike the recent experience, net
workers' remittances and foreign grants, which are likely to decline, may not
be sufficient to meet the growing trade deficit. Jordan therefore would have
to rely more on external borrowing (para 16).



-4-
Social Issues
13.      Due to the substantial raigration of Jordanians to neighboring
countries and the rapid economic growth, the present labor market situation
has been characterized by selective manpower shortages. Howqever, according to
the Bank's manpower projections demand and supply for labor in Jordan might
become more balanced throughout this decade wit'h the possibility of an
emerging surplus of certain categories of skilled professionals. In 1980, out
of the approximately 800,000 Jordanians (including Palestinians from the West
Bank) residing abroad, a little over 200,000 were estimated to be workers,
compared to a total domestic employment of about 440,000. Domestic employment
includes a number of foreign workers currently estimated at about 80,000; hialf
of these workers are unskilled. The country has expanded its education and
training system rapidly, to meet both domestic and external needs. A compre-
hensive manpower and training plan is needed to help ensure that; (a) the
economy does not suffer from shortages of crucial skills, while meeting
prospective demand for skilled workers abroad as far as possible; and (b) the
potential labor force is utilized more fully--especially the seasonally idle
workers in rainfed areas and women, whose participation, although growing
fast, is still low. The Bank is assisting the Government with a review of
these matters.
14.      The Government has further emphasized social issues in the current
Five-Year Plan (1981-85). Allthough the social indicators provide a relatively
favorable reading in most secl'ors, social services are unevenly distributed
across income groups and between urban and rural areas. Thus, while health
infrastructure is adequate and life expectancy is relatively high (61 years),
medical doctors are concentrated in urban centers. Housing remains a problem
despite the boom in 1978-80, rmainly because housing costs have far exceeded
the means of the lower income groups. The Government's concern about these
issues has led to the setting up of the new Ministry of Social Affairs in
November 1979 to define a coherent social development programa. The Bank has
assisted the Government with reviews of the urban and regional development
issues.
External Assistance
15.      With the large chronic trade deficit offset by inflows of remittances
and foreign transfers, the current account of the balance of payments was on
average in equilibrium through 1975-81. Net worlcers' remittances increased
from about $160 million in 1975 to about $900 million in 1981 and 1982.
Following the Baghdad Arab Summit Conference in November 1978, which pledged
assistance of about $1.2 billion per year over a 10-year period, net foreign
grant aid rose from $400-500 million in 1977-78 to about $1.3 billion in 1980
and 1981; it declined to some $1 billion in 1982. This decline was the main
reason for the current account deficit of over $330 million in that year. The
external public debt outstanding and disbursed reached $1.7 billion at the end
of 1982 (about 40 percent of GNP); the outstanding and disbursed debt to IDA
was about $84 million, and to IBRD, about $70 million.  External debt service
payments amounted to $193 million in 1982 or 6.1 percent of total exports of
goods and services.



-5-
16.      Jordan's impressive stability, pragmatic economic and social policies
and efficient economic management have helped to attract large foreign
assistance. Except for aid related to defense expenditures, the grant
component of this foreign assistance is expected to decline over the next few
years. The projections indicate a need for average gross external borrowing
of about $600 million over the 1983-87 period.  While bilaterzAl and
multilateral sources can be expected to provide the bulk of external
resources, Jordan is likely to resort increasingly to the financial markets,
and this would result in a hardening of loan terms. On these assumptions, the
debt service ratio as a percentage of exports of goods and services is
projected to reach 7-8 percent by 1987 and some 10 percent by 1990. Given
this outlook and the country's record of prudent management, Jordan remains
creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 1/
17.      Jordan has received twelve Bank loans totalling $280.8 million and
fifteen IDA credits totalling $86.1 million (net of cancellations) of which
all the credits and one loan have been fully disbursed. Project
implementation and disbursement performance have been generally satisfactory.
In recent years, disbursements have amounted to about 60-70 percent of
appraisal estimates. The IDA credits have financed projects in key sectors,
such as education, highways, water supply and sewerage, power, irrigation and
tourism. By mid-1978, Jordan had attained a stage of economic development
where it could be considered creditworthy for Bank lending and had reached a
GNP per capita level that exceeded IDA limits. IDA lending was thus
discontinued after March 1978. IFC has made investments in Jordan with total
commitments of $94.2 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IDA credits, and IFC investments as of September 30, 1983.
18.      Bank group assistance to Jordan has been directed toward export-
oriented projects on which the Bank Group has cooperated closely with the
Government in project preparation and in the mobilization of large external
financial assistance. In addition, the Bank Group has been assisting the
Government in implementing its social objectives of improving the income and
living standards of the rural and urban poor, as well as expanding manpower
training, as enunciated in the first Five-Year Plan (1976-80) and emphasized
in the second Five-Year Plan (1981-85). Bank assistance has also fostered the
development of the power subsector to meet the demand from a rapidly growing
economy.
19.      In line with these objectives, the Bank Group has provided technical
assistance for developing and implementing a plan for expanding phosphate rock
mining, and for preparing a comprehensive program for a second phase of
development of the agricultural potential of the Jordan Valley and for water
supply based on the Maqarin Dam. An engineering credit was made in FY1975 to
help prepare a large project for potash production from the Dead Sea via solar
1/ Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for the
Energy Development Loan which was distributed to the Executive Directors
on December 1, 1983.



-6-
evaporation, for which a loan was approved by the Executive Directors in
September 1978; the project has been successfully completed. In addition,
further support for the Government's social and economic objectives was
provided in recent years by loans for the Fourth and Fifth Education projects
approved in December 1981 and March 1983, the Cities and Vi'Llages Development
Bank (CVDB) project approved in March 1980, the Urban Development and Urban
Transport projects approved in July 1980 and July 1983 respectively, the Fifth
Power project approved in May 1982, the Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and
Sewerage project approved in December 1982, and the Energy I)evelopment Project
approved in December 1983.
20.      The Government has requested intensified assistance from the Bank to
achieve the Plan objectives with respect to vocational and technical trainilag
in order to meet the manpower needs of the economy, and provide secondary
education in less-developed regions. The proposed project addresses part of
these needs. Projects under preparation include mining, transport, water
supply/sewerage, and health development.
21.      In a parallel effort at the macroeconornic and sectcoral levels, the
Bank assisted the Government by reviewing the 1981-85 Five-Year Plan, with
emphasis on industrial sector and manpower analysis. It has also helped
review the energy and urban sectors, regional development issues, and exporl
strategy and export promotion in manufacturing industries as well as the
health sector. The reports entitled Energy Sector Study, Review of the
Five-Year Plan (1981-85), Export Strategy and Export Promotion In
Manufacturing Industries, and Urban Sector Review were distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1983, May 1983, and June 1983 (both Export
Promotion and Urban Sector Reviews) respectively. The reports on regional
development and health sector reviews are under preparation.
22.      At the end of 1980, t:he actual Bank Group share in Jordan's total
external public debt was estimated at 8 percent, and its share in debt service
was 2 percent.  By 1985, the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 7 percent and 5.5 percent respectively.
PART II -  THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Socio-Economic and Sector Background
23.      In view of its sparse endowment of water and mineral resources,
Jordan rightly considers its labor force to be its most important productive
asset. Population and labor force in Jordan are growing at a rapid rate
despite heavy labor emigration.  The total labor force has increased at about
3.5 percent per year during the 1960s and early 1970s, and about 6 percent per
year since 1975. This rapid growth of the labor force results partly from the
rise of male participation rates wrhich occurred during the 1970s, and from the
continuing movement of working-age population from the West Bank to the East
Bank. Most of it, however, arises from the high rate of natural population
increase in the East Bank. Rapid growth of population, particularly in the
youngest age groups (more than half of the population is less than 15 years
old) has strained and will continue to strain thie Government"s capacity to
provide school places to the expanding school-ag,e population.



-7-
Sector Institutions
24.      The Ministry of Education (MOE) under the guidance of the National
Board of Education is responsible for formal education institutions and
training which includes primary, preparatory, general and technical secondary,
and post-se'condary polytechnics and community colleges. The Ministry has
developed good project implementation, supervision and maintenance capability
and continues to strengthen its relevant departments. The universities are
autonomous and governed by their own boards which are responsible for
establishing general policy guidelines and determining each year the number of
students to be admitted to the different faculties. A number of other
Ministries, in particular the Ministry of Health and the Vocational Training
Corporation (VTC), an autonomous government agency affiliated with the
Ministry of Labor, are active in training related to their special fields.
The VTC is responsible for the in-plant apprentice program conducted with the
cooperation of employers and for a skill-upgrading program. In addition to
these programs, there is a vigorous effort in job-oriented training provided
by the private sector. There are, for example, 20 private community colleges
that offer post-secondary courses, principally in commercial specializations.
Education Polic
25.      Past Progress.  The Government has a strong commitment to human
resource development. It pursues a policy of providing universal basic
education and reorienting education and training to meet manpower needs.
Progress in the overall development of the education system has been
remarkable, especially over the past decade, and major strides have been made
towards the goal of nine years of basic schooling (primary and preparatory
levels) for all children. This is now fully achieved at the primary level and
is close to being achieved at the preparatory level. Gross enrollments
(including over-aged students) at the primary, preparatory and secondary
levels represent a high 108 percent, 91 percent and 66 percent of the relevant
age groups. Female enrollments as a percentage of total enrollments (48
percent at the primary level, 46 percent at the preparatory level and 45
percent at the secondary level), are among the highest in the Middle East.
These gains were achieved through a significant expansion of education
infrastructure, both in permanent facilities and in temporary facilities.
During the previous Plan period (1976-1980), the MOE opened nearly 300 schools
comprising about 5,000 classrooms in the compulsory, secondary and
post-secondary education cycles. Half of these are rented facilities that do
not meet the Government's standards for permanent schools.
26.      The Government has been less successful in meeting its goals of
expanding vocational training. An increase in enrollment of about 80 percent
in vocational/technical courses was achieved in the late seventies. This,
however, represents only 13 percent of total secondary enrollment, as against
the Government's original target of 30 percent by 1980. Lack of facilities
has been the principal cause of insufficient progress. The Government now
aims to attain the target level by 1985 and is implementing projects that will
alleviate bottlenecks.
27.      Current Objectives.  The Government's main objectives in education
and training as expressed in the current Development Plan are (a) to improve
the quality of education, particularly in science, through upgraded teacher



-8-
qualifications, improved curricula and teaching materials, replacement of
rented schools, and elimination of double shifting, (b) to expand basic
education (grades 1-9) towards full enrollments, (c) to generalize a program
of prevocational instruction in grades 5 through 12, (d) to channel
secondary-level students into vocational specializations so as to achieve 30
percent vocational secondary enrollments by 1985, (e) to reduce, by more tha:n
20 percent by 1985, the proportion of illiterates among the population less
than 60 years old, and (f) to provide the trained manpower necessary to meet
the evolving demand of the Jordanian economy and that of othe!r Arab
countries. A closely related goal is to expand labor-force participation,
particularly by Jordanian women. These are reasonable and feasible
educational goals that address the principal education and training needs.
28.      Educational Finance.  The Government has adopted an ambitious program
of investment to expand education and training capacity at all levels. The
Plan allocates about $700 million to implement priority projects in education
and training, including university education. This expansion implies an
increase in the recurrent costs of the education system. Between 1975 and
1979, the recurrent cost of public education under the MOE increased at the
rate of 11.6 percent per annum in real terms, compared to a 7.5 percent yearly
increase in enrollment. The share of educational expenditure stabilized at
around 11 percent of total public recurrent expenditure during 1975-79. Based
on projected enrollment increases, recurrent expenditures in education in
1980-85 are estimated to increase by about 6 percent per annum to a total of
about $157 million or about 9 percent of total public recurrent expenditure in
1985.  Total recurrent and capital expenditures for education would amount to
about $185 million in 1985 (in 1979 prices), which represents about 5 percent
of the projected GNP and about 10 percent of the Government budget. The
Government can be expected to sustain this expanded level of expenditure, in
view of the high priority attached to education.
Education and Training Issues
29.      The educational development strategy has been successful in
increasing educational opportunities, improving quality and correcting an
earlier under-emphasis on vocat:ional/technical education. Further steps are
being taken to address the key issues of (a) availability and quality of
school buildings, (b) relevance (external efficiency) of general education,
and (c) quality of science instruction and adequacy of science laboratories.
a.   Adequacy of School Buildings.  The very rapid growth in enrollment
has not been matched by a similar growth in suitable school
facilities, particularly in urban areas. The MOE has had to resort
to the extensive use of rented buildings (more than half of
compulsory and secondary schools classrooms) that lack the
appropriate facilities for use as schools.  These temporary
facilities are usually seriously overcrowded, have no space for
science or workshop equipment, and lack adequate sanitary facilities
and playgrounds. The MOE has also been compelled to reduce the hours
of instruction by one hour per day (from 5 1/2 hours to 4 1/2 hours)
to apply a two-shift system in about 41 percent of compulsory and
secondary schools in order to provide the necessary number of school
places with the limited facilities available. The acute need to



-9-
replace improvised, rented school facilities with suitable, permanent
facilities tends to be supplanted by the need to accommodate a
rapidly growing school-age population. The extent of the need for
new and upgraded school buildings is such that the very significant
school construction program of the 1981/85 Five-Year Plan (about JD80
million for compulsory and secondary school construct'on) would meet
only half the estimated need to replace all unsuitable rented
facilities and accommodate projected enrollment increases.
b.   Relevance (External Efficiency) of General Education.  The National
Board of Education ruled in 1979 that practical activities be
introduced into grades 1 through 4 and a new integrated program of
prevocational instruction be offered to students pursuing academic
studies in grades 5 through 12. The objectives of the new
prevocational instruction program are to provide a positive
orientation toward productive employment, to provide a basis for
eventual on-the-job training, to guide the choice of subsequent work
or studies based on student aptitudes, and to equip students with
basic mechanical skills to solve daily problems. In response to the
Board of Education ruling, the MOE has developed suitable courses
both for students and for teachers who are to teach the new courses.
Prevocational instruction courses of 2 hours a week were introduced
in 100 preparatory schools (grades 7 through 9) in 1981, offered in
another 90 preparatory schools and initiated in some general
secondary schools during the 1982183 school year. Adequate numbers
of teachers for the prevocational instruction program are being
trained at the Shaubak Teacher Training Institute, supported under
the Third Education Project. The main constraint to fuller
implementation of the prevocational instruction and practical
activities programs is lack of suitable workshops and equipment, an
issue that the proposed project would address by providing facilities
for implementing the program in both new and existing schools.
c.   Quality of Science Teaching.  The efficiency of science instruction
in secondary schools suffers from overcrowded classrooms, absence of
science laboratories and equipment, and a reduction in hours of
science instruction to accommodate double shifting. To remedy this
problem, the MOE plans to construct and equip, during the 1981-85
Plan period, 140 new laboratories in 70 general secondary schools,
(including the laboratories in the proposed project), and to provide
laboratory kits to over 1,000 compulsory schools. In addition, it
plans to strengthen the 100 existing secondary school laboratories
through the provision of additional science instruments and
equipment. The proposed project would play an important role in
contributing to this effort.
Bank's Role in Education
30.      The Bank has extended two credits ($5.4 million in 1972 and $6
million in 1975) and three loans ($19 million in 1979, $25 million in 1981,
and $18.8 million in 1983) for education projects. The first and second
IDA-financed projects are completed. The implementation of the third



-10-
(Bank-financed) project is underway and the loan is largely committed.
Construction of the trade training center is progressing and that of other
institutions has commenced under the fourth project. Procurement is about to
begin under the recent fifth project. These projects were designed to assist
Jordan in improving the quality of education, providing basic education to all
relevant age groups, establishing appropriate manpower training and increasing
vocational training opportunities for men and women. Institution building has
been a prominent feature of the Bank's operations.  The planning and project
implementation capabilities of the MOE were vastly expanded, supported in part
by technical assistance components of earlier Bank-Group projects, and the
Ministry is now approaching the capability of handling all of its school
construction programs with minimum external assistance.  The above projects
have also assisted the establishment and refinemlent of the comprehensive
secondary school curriculum, and the alignment of technical/vocational                       A
programs with the labor market:. These projects have introduced modern
evaluation systems for the various schools and institutions. The third
project was particularly useful in improving the planning and management
capability of the MOE by providing a research and evaluation mechanism and a
computerized management information system to be used as too:Ls for planning
and modern management.
31.      The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2494, Sec.M79-336) on the
first project noted the institutional impact of the project in many areas,
including educational planning, and concluded that the project was justified
and worthwhile. The recommendations of the Report have been implemented,
including improved procurement procedures, better coordination of technical
assistance, more effective scheduling of required inputs and timing of
implementation, and more extended training in marLagement and administration.
The Project Completion Report on the second project (PCR No. 4261) has
concluded that the project is contributing to the expansion of vocational and
technical education in Jordan at a time when demand for skilled labor is
increasing. It has also noted that the physical components were well
executed, the quality of construction and equipment was very good, and that
all major technical assistance components were fully implemented. However,
delays and cost overruns were encountered during implementation.
32.      Following the improvements envisaged under recent projects and the
proposed sixth project, the Bank expects the institutional capability of the
MOE to be sufficiently advanced to efficiently carry out various development
programs on its own.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
33.      The proposed project was identified in March 1982 and prepared by the
Government with Bank assistance during 1982/1983. It was appraised in
March/April 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from November 23
- December 2, 1983. The Jordanian Delegation was led by Mr. Abdul Latif
Arabiat, Secretary General, Ministry of Education (MOE) and included officials
of the National Planning Council and MOE. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Sixth Education Project - Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan" (No. 4685-JO)



-11-
dated December 12, 1983, is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. The main features of the loan and project are given in the Loan
and Project Summary at the beginning of this Report and in Annex III. A map
showing the project sites is attached.
Project Objectives
34.      The proposed project would help improve conditions in compulsory and
general secondary schools, increase the vocational content of the curricula,
and complete the program begun under earlier projects for strengthening MOE
capacity in project preparation and implementation.
Project Description
35.      The project would include: (i) constructing, equipping and furnishing
compulsory schools and general secondary schools; (ii) constructing,
furnishing and equipping laboratories, multi-purpose workshops and libraries
in existing general secondary schools; and (iii) technical assistance for
training instructors for the above institutions, for strengthening key MOE
Directorates and for preinvestment work on future projects.
36.      Compulsory Schools (grades 1-9).  The project would provide for the
constructing, equipping and furnishing of 31 compulsory schools (25 for girls
and 6 for boys) in the governorates of Amman, Irbid, Balqa, Ma'an and Karak.
The proposed schools would replace unsatisfactory or rented facilities as well
as provide for increased enrollments (about 29,000 students by 1989/90); cost
savings of JD 52,000 per year would be achieved while the number of students
per classroom (currently 60-70 students per room in some existing schools)
would be brought down to about 40-50 students per room. These schools would
provide improved access to education and would better prepare students,
particularly girls in rural areas/small towns, for entry into vocational and
general secondary schools. About 60 percent of the required teachers for the
new schools would come from the classes to be relocated from inadequate and
rented facilities. The remaining teachers would be available from the
community colleges and from the Teacher Training Institute at Shaubak
supported under the Bank Third Education Project. In addition, graduates of
the vocational secondary schools would continue to be recruited to teach
prevocational courses in grade 7.
37.      General Secondary Schools (grades 10-12).  This component would
comprise constructing, equipping, and furnishing, including multi-purpose
workshops, of 16 general secondary schools (7 for girls, 9 for boys) in the
governorates of Amman, Balqa, Irbid, Karak and Ma'an. The proposed schools
would replace about 110 improvised and educationally inadequate general
secondary classrooms currently housed in rented buildings, and enable the
cancellation of the second shift in about 12 rented secondary schools. In
addition, nine secondary general schools would be established in areas where
none currently exist. These new facilities would reduce the pressure upon
existing secondary schools as half of the project institutions (an enrollment
of about 8,000 students) would serve only this purpose. The workshops would
improve the relevance of secondary education by extending the prevocational
instruction program. The size of each proposed school has been determined by
MOE's Planning and Research Directorate on the basis of detailed mapping of



-12-
school outputs and intake capacity in each region.  Total enrollments in the
proposed general secondary schools would be about 16,000 (6,500 girls and
9,500 boys). About half the vacated rented facilities would be used to
accommodate an expansion of primary enrollments.
38.      The schools would require a total staff of 780, about one-third of
whom would come from the classes to be relocated from inadequate facilities.
The remaining two-thirds would be recruited from the community colleges and
universities. The curriculum for the proposed schools would include two hours
per week of prevocational instruction in the form of general prevocational
instruction in grade 10 and a single vocational option in grades 11 and 12.
Each of the project schools would provide four vocational options chosen from
electricity, woodwork, metalwork, agriculture, home economics and commercial
specializations, on the basis of qualifications of available teachers.                       i
39.      Extensions to Existing General Secondary Schools.  This component
would improve secondary institutions, particularly in sciences, and support
the expansion of the prevocational program by constructing, equipping and
furnishing 48 science laboratories, 49 libraries, and 50 multi-purpose
workshops for 53 existing upper general secondary schools that lack such
facilities (representing about 15 percent of total such schools). Of the 48
laboratories, 23 would be for physics, 20 for chemistry, 4 for biology and one
for general science.
40.      Technical Assistance.  The proposed project would provide 183 months
of fellowships for the necessary training of prevocational instructors for the
project secondary schools, and would improve MOE implementation capability by,
providing TA in six priority areas: (i) In-Service Teacher Training. The
Directorates of Education and In-Service Training and Certification are
planning a substantial strengtheninig of their in-service teacher training
programs, including the establishment of pilot Teacher Develo;pment Centers,
which would provide a variety of learning resources to teachers for their own
development and training. The success of these efforts would depend on the
appropriate support and strengthening of supervisory and in-service training
services. To ensure the success of these programs, the proposed project would
provide 21 man-months of specialist services. (ii) Education and Planning.
In the interest of improved efficiency, the five Regional Directorates of
Education, under the Ministry's new policy of devolving educat:ional planning
responsibilities to the governorates, are preparing to progressively assume
planning responsibilities formerly held by the MOE central administration.
The assistance to be provided to the Directorates of Education and Planning
under the proposed project would contribute to this effort through the
provision of 27 man-months of suitable training and study visits for planners
and trainers in the MOE and regional directorates. (iii) Examinations. The
proposed development by MOE of standardized aptitude and performance tests for
preparatory-level students (grades 7-9) would be an important adjunct to the
study guidance program supported by the previous project. This component in
the proposed project would help extend the development of career and
occupational guidance services initiated under the Fifth Education Project
through the provision of appropriate fellowships (6 man-months) for training
of senior staff of the MOE Directorate of Examinations and Student Guidance.



-13-
(iv) Educational Technology. The newly created Directorate of Educational
Technology is developing a program to integrate the use of media and materials
into the teaching-learning process. Training and study visits (12 man-months)
for staff of the Directorate would be provided under the proposed project to
acquaint staff with production techniques for educational television programs,
animation and scientific photography techniques, and utilization and
maintenance of precision science laboratory equipment. (v) Community
Colleges. The Government's network of community colleges, supported in part
under the third and fourth education projects, require additional staff
training inputs to enable them to fulfill their role as a resource for the
particular needs of surrounding communities. To provide such training, the
proposed project includes 12 months of fellowships and study visits.
(vi)  Computer Center.  The MOE Management Information System (MIS), created
under the Third Education Project, requires additional support for manpower
training in order to make fuller use of MIS facilities. For this purpose, the
proposed project includes 12 man-months of fellowships and study visits.
(vii) MOE Directorate of Projects (DOP). The proposed project would complete
the strengthening of the DOP by providing support for fellowships and study
visits (16 man-months) for upgrading staff in procurement procedures and
technical assistance management.
Project Implementation
41.      The principal implementation responsibility would rest with the
Directorate of Projects (DOP) of the Ministry of Education. The DOP staffing
has been strengthened under the Fifth Education Project (Loan 2246-JO) through
the addition of two procurement officers, two accountants, two quantity
surveyors, an experienced architect, and an experienced engineer. The
Government is preparing a plan to improve further the efficiency of the
Procurement Unit of DOP and expects to start implementing it by September 1984.
42.      Suitable sites for new project institutions have been identified and
33 of the 47 sites have been acquired. The Government would acquire remaining
sites by end June 1984 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06). Prototype designs for
project schools were completed by an independent design office at Yarmouk
University and have been reviewed and approved by the Bank. Adaptation of
prototype designs to individual sites is in progress and would be completed by
June 1984. Preliminary equipment lists for the project institutions have been
completed and reviewed by the Bank. Final lists are under preparation by DOP
and expected to be completed by March 1984. Draft terms of reference and an
implementation schedule for technical assistance were prepared by the MOE,
reviewed by the Bank during appraisal and found satisfactory. The Government
plans to execute the technical assistance program through the Technical
Assistance Section of the DOP. The Government would finalize the program and
time schedule for implementing this component by mid-June 1984, and would
execute the program after it is reviewed by the Bank. The program would
identify the staffing needs of the Technical Assistance Section (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03a).
43.      To distribute the implementation workload, the project would be
implemented in two phases. Phase I would incorporate about one-third of the
new schools and about half of the extensions to existing facilities. Tender



-14-
documents for Phase I schools woul(d be ready by July 1984, and those for the
other schools by January 1985. Equipment and furniture procurement would be
coordinated to follow the pace of construction. Recruitment for technical
assistance would start in July 1984. The project is expected to be completed
by June 30, 1989.
Accounts and Audit
44.      The DOP maintains project-related accounts in accordance with sound
and generally recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to
the Bank.  The accounts would be audited by the Government's Bureau of Audit
which is acceptable to the Bank.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
45.      The total cost of the project is estimated at about $122 million
(October 1983 prices), of which about $61 million is foreign exchange. Cost
breakdown by components is summarized in the Loan and Project Summary at the
beginning of this Report. Technical assistance costs are estimated at an
average of $10,300 per man-month for specialist services including salary,
fee, overhead, international travel and subsistence, and $3,100 per man-month
for fellowship training. Indirect taxes on civil works and locally procured
furniture and equipment ($10.0 million) are estimated at about 8 percent of
total project costs including contingencies. No customs duties or taxes are
levied on items directly imported for project use. Physical contingencies
amount to 7.5 percent of base cost and the price contingencies to about 26
percent of the base cost plus physical contingencies.  This figure is based on
annual price escalation rates of 8.0 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, 7.0
percent in 1985 and 6 percent thereafter, both for local and foreign costs.
46.      The proposed Bank Loan of $40.0 million would finance about one-third
of the total cost and about two-thirds of the foreign exchange cost of the
project. The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange costs of
constructing and equipping the compulsory schools and the extensions to the
secondary schools. It would also cover the total cost of consultant services
and fellowships. The remaining foreign costs would be covered by a
combination of Government funding ($15.7 million) and suppliers' and export
credits. The Government would also cover the local costs (about $61
million).
Recurrent Cost
47.      When fully operational in 1989, the project schools would generate
about JDl.9 million in incremental recurrent costs (in 1983 prices). This
amount would constitute a modest two percent of projected recurrent costs of
education, and is expected to be fully within the Government's fiscal
capability.
Procurement and Disbursement
48.      Civil works and equipment contracts to be financed under the loan
(amounting to about $56 million In aggregate) would be awarded on the basis of



-1 5-
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. Civ<il works contracts for extensions to existing institutions
(averaging about $0.23 million equivalent per contract and aggregating $12.3
million) and for the two most remote compulsory schools ($3 million in total)
would be unlikely to interest international contractors and would be awarded
in accordance with local bidding procedures which shall be acceptable to the
Bank. Equipment that cannot be bulked and items of specialized nature for
which ICB would not be appropriate, would be procured under local procedures
which shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such contracts will be under
$100,000 each and will not exceed $1 million in aggregate. Consultant
services (about 70 man-months) would be procured according to Bank
Guidelines. In the comparison of equipment bids obtained under ICB, local
manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference equal to custom duties
applicable to competing imports or 15 percent of the CIF price, whichever is
lower.
49,      The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of seven years,
and cover 45 percent of the total expenditures for civil works, 100 percent of
foreign expenditures, the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured items as
well as 90 percent of local expenditures for equipment, and 100 percent of the
total expenditures for fellowships and specialist services. The Loan Closing
Date would be December 31, 1989. The estimated disbursement schedule in the
Loan and Project Summary reflects the sector disbursement experience, and
implementation of the project in two phases.
Benefits and Risks
50.      The proposed project would make an important contribution to the
Government effort to upgrade school facilities and to increase the vocational
orientation of general instruction at the primary, preparatory, and secondary
levels. The project responds to a specific Government request that future
Bank involvement in the education sector go beyond its past support of teacher
training, vocational education and institutional development, to assist
directly in improving the quality of school facilities and to provide an
employment orientation for the majority of students who will never pursue
actual vocational training.
51.      The proposed project would expand significantly the capacity and
quality of compulsory and general secondary schooling in areas of the country
where education is constrained severely by inadequate facilities. It would
lead to a substantial improvement of enrollment ratios for girls in rural
areas and increase employment potential for women. It also would help to
improve the relevance of compulsory and secondary instruction by providing
facilities to extend the new practical activities and prevocational
instruction programs in compulsory and secondary schools. The project would
improve the quality of science instruction by providing science laboratories,
libraries, and suitable science equipment for selected existing secondary
schools. Technlical assistance to be provided by the proposed project would
further strengthen MOE planning, training and implementation capability.
There are no undue risks associated with the proposed project. The components
are identical or similar to those already being implemented satisfactorily
under previous projects. However, due to frequent spacing of education



-16-
projects since 1981, the proposed project might tax the implementation
capacity of the MOE. Therefore, the project provides for the sufficient
strengthening of MOE's capacity of implementation in critical areas. The
timely availability of the substantial Government contribution (about
$76 million) would be essential. for smooth project implementat:ion. This
matter has been discussed with the Government, which confirmed that in view of
the high priority given to this project, all necessary measures would be
taken. The expenditures for the first two implementation years have been
budgeted and those for future years programmed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section.                X
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
separately.   Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
53.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 29, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
-17 -
T A B L E 3A
JORDAN                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JORDAN                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES ) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960'6       1970'   ESTIMATE-/       N. AFRICA & MID EAST    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                   97.7          97.7         97.7
AGRICULTURAL                            12.8          14.0         14.8
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                          ..           .        1 1692.0 /c         1340.0                      2088.2
ENERGY CONSLMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         185.0         308.0        627.0              810.4                       1407.6
POPUlATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    1695.0          2299.0        3370.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           42.7          49.6         57.0                47.4                        65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                    6.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                     17.8
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHEO                                    2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           17.3         23.5          33.2                36.0                        35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               132.4        164.2         219.2              449.0                         93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE [X)
0-14 YRS                             44.4         45.8          46.3               43.9                         40.1
15-64 YRS                             51.5         51.0          51.1               52.8                         55.8
65 AND ABOVE                           4.1          3.1           2.7                3.3                          4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                  3.1           3.0          3.5                 2.9                         2.3
UR8AN                                  5.2          4.5           4.7                4.6                          3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)             47.4         47.6         46.5                42.5                        31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)            19.9          15.S          9.0                12.0                         8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.5           3.6          3.6                 3.0                          2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                          220.0          79.0         71.0               97.5                        113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQOUIREMENTS)         93.0         93.0          96.0               102.3                       111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              61.0         5S.0          62.0               72.0                         67.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            15.0         15.0          15.0/d             17.8                         34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             26.3          12.5          5.4                15.2                         5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)           47.0          54.1         61.7                57.2                        b4.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          135.5          97.5         66.9               104.2                        62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                 21.3            ..         80.0/c,e            59.3                        64.8
URBAN                                 48.6           ..            ..               54.9                         77.8
RURAL                                  2.1            ..           ..                37.5                        44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(. OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..         78.0/c,e              ..                        ,-..
URBAN                                    ..           ..           ..                  ..                        69.8
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..                  ..                        29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              5800.0       3780.0        1890.0             3536.0                       1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               1930.0/f    1480.0         1310.0              1820.7                      1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                560.0       1350.0        1190.0/d            643.3                        477.0
URBAN                                            1100.0         690.06/            545.0                        667.5
RURAL                                    ..      5540.0            ..             2462.0                       1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..         36.5         45.7/d              26.4                        27.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  5.3           6.1          6.7/c
URBAN                                  5.5            ..
RURAL                                  5.1            ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/KOOM
TOTAL                                    ..           ..          6.5/c
URBAN                                                          ..                   ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 17.0            ..         66.0/c             46.2
URBAN                                 39.2            ..         90./7c             77.6
RURAL                                  1.4            ..         30.O/c              16.1
-- - - -- -- -- - - - - - _   _ _   _ _ _   _ _   _       _- _  - - - - -_  _   _ __       _   _ _   _ - -- - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - -- --_ :_ _ __   _ _   _ _ _- - __- - _- - _- _ _- _- - _- _ _- _ _-_ - -__- -__ _- _ - -_ -_- _ -_- _- -_-_ __ - -_-_ _ -_ - -__



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6j
- 18 -
T A B L E 3A
JORDAN                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNEET
JORDAN                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCG!E
196OLb      19 70-  ESTIMATE-      N. AFRICA & MID EAST   LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    77.0        72.0/c     108.0/c             89.6                     105.0
MALE                    94.0        79.07W         ..             104.8                     106.3
FEMALE                  59.0        65. 07c       .                72.4                     103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   25.0        33.0/c      79.0/c,g           41.7                      40.0
MALE                    36.0        41.07W         ''              52.8                      38.6
FEMALE                  13.0        24.07W        ,,               31.2                      41.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)           2.7         3.0/c      13.0/c             10.3                      34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            34.0        39.0/c      32.0/c             31.9                      30.7
SECONDARY                          20.0        23.07W      20.07W             23.3                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)              32.4           ..        70.0              43.3                      79.5
CONSUMYF ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           3.7         6.7        19.6/d             18.0                      45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         37.8       160.9       165.2              138.1                     228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              ..        20.0         52.7              45.6                     108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             18.3        24.4        29.3/d             31.0                      64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       3.2         0.9         4.8                1.7                       2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           432.0       569.0       800.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    5.0         5.6         6.6               10.7                      24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              44.0        34.0        20.0               42.5                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 26.0         9.0        20.0               27.8                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATF (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              25.5        24.7        23.7               25.6                      31.3
MALE                               46.7        45.5        43.4               45.4                      49.8
FEMALE                              2.7         2.8         3.2                5.6                      14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.9         2.0         2.1                1.8                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..          ..           ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..          ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..          ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..
POVERTZ TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..        230.0/d           276.1                     289.8
RURAL                                ,.          ..       100.07             177.1                     184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..        206.0/d           400.0                     519.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       135.07d            283.3                     372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                ..          ..        14.0               22.0
RURAL                                ..          ..        17.0               30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of- countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for 'Most Recent Estimate' between 1979 and 1981.
/c   East Bank, 1982; Id 1977; /e 1982; /f 1962; /I  Includet,   -  -atory  Pae
12-14 years.
may 1983



- 19                                                                ~~~~~~~~ANNEX-
-19-                                                                 ~~~~~~~Page 3
t-to    Al tionh rho a-oot  eo  f-ot  ---ot  ge-t.g fy Jdodod err --t  .nttoOOtO... i             0 A elato.it  h-ld aiao to  -Itd Otoot rbey oay  boIoftrotoaO
coorotoble  yasoto of  hy  -anl  0y  -tnd-rdiod d2oflltt-ton d nt  _otpto nood by dfforrttt-totn-  ttnUtt               tho data.  Itb  dat   r.nnehtt,  tftt
deaeriirnodoysnfoarnOtodo,  Otottaro  toondo, ott tharnotytt no rortofa oaloo dltteroryOa totgtyt ,rnototea.~~~~~~~~~~~d1t--    hI-  "I.
It  rfetao   rty   at  11ot  to  narlo8-nfo  r.r   Oottata    n   y  otatty trop girt   -.moh., htsa-  --g,  tI--                       thnty  aooptop  fot
tglo-toaryltrp   yy  'tr  aot   00*  oaror>'tootp aitto "totdd I  ..o. I  orth  Momi-  -d Ofiddltto"t   itrbooao   tottotarhaa
t_Iot?    Oto'. o.f..m ntttg  aAae   t   oad   art    ti,ypOraotatO                                                          Ot a odi,gt. abot  at Jo.      oftyteet
AREA   tOt.- toyydyt.    ofatttoo    rgoo   yPort   000fettNoto taror-  -enn P- Popofttf Ototdd b                                                           poobrnfpotoe
1970 .'d  Lgeo 'a 'a                                                                                       Pp~~~~~~~~ttoo,ad  art?dnttdb  ftt alapeotf   oa.hee of -boateo  Oatis
09f0,    f  god :900 d at.                                                                           y  tt-atoe  byioo"'ottOttOr  pootd -`    yttfpt                        tostodia
osttt.  fooi  ro.dJ ea-t   h-opte tal and  Oodro  and   . stertep   rot.d
Oftitlilf nOt 001    lcroo                                                                              yotl P"!oit tonottoae  IoAdt. fantoIdrbattby
doat.                                                                   ft,oe roopfrota ~~~~1-11d  -qdo   hr -tit tobr of tots.1
1i0tfg0o .. Otytattnl000rtl o. ttal.. hrm    f ntor  o rtoft'oplgrotI
Vi'feooo   dofootoraof ata"'Po" npi,tOtt tt-arntfo--o ago             -lt-e
yooolaeon Pro tnoriotn                                                                     - A ttoneiot -nt-it s of    frop of  btd-odaoot   bo   btgease
rotf ppofrog  byri  god-oeo-to   rh-. a               AoaOtt   and yart - ft8o            rao  -ooetot  for  -ttA -tatftal oopoo.d A
1-r1 eyroter   o  tort itytt.00  Woeeoftt                                               aotr.tpto   -pato.tly   ,.
rorhdntfro o  arrofoy  nd  oottffp onnd II   trrpf    Prn  ropao                          f tomtt    obg,   ad -001det -or            eoottnety.
ttoOontfyntiaftn -fooe        - ftgy popotat-n th-r  OnttA---'
otrto   ot   gt  naolt   h  -t   Or   t   totin ato                                       hyl-t
it -lre to-rho r   _oloton _to   ,  ot o   ntdoft   oe   fe,Pf ytro Itto.  ai ot eot-foOt   ttd   aoadfsi
egi~oetoo  o   oto  ryaottoofonol.   t  oatnoyotolot  0   f  oc  a   brtooaytoe  a   eoetgr   f  apaan
yptrVth.              1, he r a,il  430oat eno   toa.  defo--lant                                                                      b fenaa-o iyte   n  above.; tftd
roonigoan do itrtootedyottot    - itler0<    or  ,ntaoaotO                                   tr-lan   tn -htraf  f-datrfl, no tr-het  trtoooainfbnrat   oeea
ord oetoa  lbS10000000  oon   o ytoontooo o  toOlfeatrotO  go                  11 ao d  2opot 17or-t nf oro Ior   t ... Iat_O_a
1000neto oe  o  td MtoaOdUL. -  enn                                                                                  -- lt oftPrt--otodo  t-
year ornOaoon; tht. 0h. nnd1000  tato,letlotry..
Itad toah fae Oro tnoond) -yonr I eatb  perolongiotCO  tit-oar     oeaoOr-ooa  oot  ltOoOot..otloofrl -Pnotnge -oao  ot doO pao do
Onrfrto    liotP?y.002f1   oa                                                               nO   ott   0000 tran  fO   0toietgt   ooat                        ett   a
YorolF.P Ito  l rae;Ito 10~K tI    0-0 v  --oac 197ano  tOlO  tntr,tl,00bntnttgtyfpbttto..th.n                                                      Ta .. of  -d-ttfn  oofde 
lOhO.                                                                                         Of totta-i rtttr   t  onrt   0 I-Itrao att  tetoe tt  oht tIdt
ynoto  otnia-fnofono   Oor{dynoh                          oonooo  oto                              ena  potfo  per hootod Pryfotto  1               5 Y-fdttlenoaI   poo
otntf  lrt-rroor    I-I   ot   o.   noot-rono OOiOt                                       t   tttttt    OrnoaorrttOOOOo   ioottttIao
tY,  rattodoao>tntoO                  0t000                                                     M'SOPTIAfff5tOtotorooodOnNOoOotho
ron  Ol  >0 lta  1t9MO', -tTId                                                                                         t   ttftootto19r,deta  g     00.oha
lteaoftot  rogoto  PO   01ro<rO3ol111'od.  a  lt  optgoofooOe  donodOteatl  0  rtrdtfneorr  et.   t _eooodte
gora   oooeto   o   ilfo2rnntotO.ttnooltnnod,eonae                         t o  000"IfO  aporartgo   entacooe,
foo   Ot  10totoolodn  per hntt   lOanottionror  rltry  ond  fe~.Idata  otgf foeoaor  oto foyta 00 Oar    toed  o ae oabe  o
oootio   nand  f o 00   ho>ae  dolead  ooot   nttltt  o.                            tnoo   of   ototro  oo.frlaly   do ohott  dte,t   ttOa  a
eFto    o   oonatoodd- efgaeyodntto  Oat- eotry0                                                    tbr       ia
tonood t  noroott arnrn8  poodoeo refornnolfita 1080-ti  lOll,do,d ff9
peonapath- trf' o   atot   -potloa           at trrfto_na 0 -_i inpaifOn                          fii0ft  or  ooato     hngfof   tOePOOo   tfds
ooogortofot  f  otfod  oprro  oatoloforotr   rr  oetopo                   frot  andt:  batnohnpd  btrt-aeghaeooa - ttdooo                   b.    J-o .  _oattt
d_ .da_        heoneottoootdoat   ttnto,tpot  ot?yOtOn0   t   tS   tettottfgoto1W                                                              ft      1--a  f- btoteaoe  000
eaprto  at  ofantt O  oter hottatlie  sottd  Onooffoo. tedo           ooyarboa  090,  001ntd   ff0 dty
rargapta  aoOy o  Cetef lgn -ePetol-.re50o-totO   e  napftti0011 001-900  ora
oro oyty 00. fod00   a.  t    opotyof fond'~ Itdtot  taoe9Ptt6a1o   aefyeeo    rtf6oo.ottsae-petorto
p Y0 pOno-t- of hItf Of rotsotol- t -iobol.  porfo    teoOnO  fy,  n  .    dOra. 'a                                           itt,eaebads    to  attpeo                    t
IhtttOtoldInnitornel 09f-tot  000  ad 181dat.Iyotto   ftOOtOt toto-atto1,  ofrploftode   5Oa  5.d   tat
tonoefs dta  rotan ttoO        aOe;li.fn   o  fO--  han.beonot.
Otolo                                                                                            roalitlo 0001                            labyPf
OttO  "  -Pottt  tOoi rao   -Avreooay               o   eo   f  ieranoo                          he.Ooltcf' oo    r   rroronot   os-e fpoet.Oceo   a
at hOrttt    trI, 10>  1o tOttonioerotntoootot  aftfttttaoateyntO
foahotrI  eopn lora, oton  an  OtnIlnO - rta -oabl  Pttss  o.af                       sfota_
oa ttoyt-ftl no    ~ yoeotoe  of..   t-ldroh,oart-   p-toofa,Taot.  toO                        reooOfeoen   tb            -  Ttor -y  -oa tcocO  te dIra   r    h   o
0000    hroa  000  o etttlo tod.  no taft     pdtolrt tnno agr-ro  Atha                    totlord nOOa  o  Oh-          b-t-toti rorro hatiota teetlpf         ott -oC0
tro doy to fettitoy                           lytt faf_ly' noatotto ...
F.oo otort   Rt.".ef lorPeroal ooootat'otl   tota. oo.                                                                                                            -a
onoaf -ttotbo  of potie fonat, oo dn, too   orat I ored  y  aoeo
dtooan  atpottorofo 0  trOorcayeeOt  ponfgfno.pplyot ~f tpood
oat" O,oldyth   ofItofo  a6 itngt  0tha               aOh  9t ottao,d ofko5ttot7ootoa,t-
hot. IoaretNgdMot-tao  bDntrhIo yroonoOtoaeofro                                                                                    tOtO    tayoao.
prnotan  tOatOotlnnog



-20 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
JORDAN - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 2.5 million (1982) 1/
GNP per capita:  US$ 1,692 (1982) 11,2/
Amount                                                       Annual Growth Rates
Indicator                   (million USS at                            Actual (at 1980 prices)                         Projected (at 1980 pri        ces)
current prices)
1982                 1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982              1983      1984     1985      1986      1987
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product          3,881                  12.4    21.5      9.1    10.8       7.4     6.3            6.0      6.5       5.5       5.0       5.0
Agriculture                  241                   1.0    25.0   -29.0    39.0    11.6        9.9           5.0       4.8       4.6      3.0       3.0
Industry                   1,014                 24.2    27.0    19.2    11.5    13.2         0.4          14.7      16.0       9.5      7.9       7.4
Services                   2,249                 10.1    18.9    10.2        7.9     4.3      8.9           2.3       1.8       3.2      3.2       3.2
Consumption                     4,296                  15.3    18.9    17.3    -7.6        6.4     3.7            4.5       5.0      5.5       5.0       5.0
Gross Investment                1,798                  28.3      5.6    10.5    17.2    24.2       2.4          -8.4        1.0     -8.9    -11.3       -1.3
Exports GNFS                    1,911                  19.2    10.4    20.4    24.1    24.9         1.5         -0.7      13.0      13.0      13.3       7.0
Imports of GNFS                 4,127                  21.8      9.7    26.4    -1.7    27.4    -1.0            -3.0       5.9       4.1       4.5      4.9
Gross National Product          3,929                  13.1    18.2      7.7      6.8      8.2      7.4           7.5      6.1       5.4       4.8       4.8
PRICES
GDP Deflator                                     67.9    72.8    82.5   100.0   116.5   123.7
Exchange Rate                                      3.04    3.26    3.33    3.35    3.07    2.84
Share of GNP at Market Prices (X)                                 Average Annual Increase
(at current prices)                                         (at constant prices)
1975     1980      1985                                     1978-82           1983-87
Gross Domestic Product                                           96.0    100.8      97.8                                         11.0             5.6
Agriculture                                                 7.8       6.6       6.6                                        11.3              4.1
Industry                                                   21.8      26.7      31.6                                        14.3            11.1
Services                                                   59.7      57.9      50.6                                        10.0              2.7
Consumption                                                     123.8    109.8    104.2                                           9.0             5.I)
Gross Investment                                                 26.5     40.8      31.3                                         12.0            -5.8
Exports of GNFS                                                  35.5     47.9      54.5                                         16.3             9.1
Imports of GNFS                                                  90.1     97.2      92.2                                         12.2             2.9
Gross National Product                                          100.0    100.0    100.0                                           9.7             5.7
Net Factor Income                                                 4.1     -0.8       2.2
Gross National Savings                                         -23.8      -9.8      -4.2
As X of GNP
(at current prices)
1975          19.30        1985
PUBLIC FINANCE
Domestic Revenues                          24.8          22.8         34.4
Current Expenditures                       37.6          33.9         32.2
Budgetary Savings                         -12.8         -10.0          2.1
Capital Expenditures                       23.6          22,9         12.7
Foreign Financing                          34.8          27.7          1.4
of which foreign grants                  30.0          20.5         11.3
1978-82       1983-87
OTHER INDICATORS
ICOR                                     5.4           5.9
Marginal Gross National
Savings Rate                         -2.8            3.8
Import Elasticity (goods)                1.2           0.8
1/ East Bank only.
2/  Preliminary estimate based on the revised series of national accounts to be discussed with the Government, which excludes remittances from long
term residents abroad that are considered capital transfers.
EMENA CPIID
November 1983



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page S of 6
JORDAN - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
Indicator                  (million USh *t                                    Annual Growth Rate
current prices)                  Actual (at 1975 prices)                        Projected (at 1980 prices)
1982             1977   1978    1979    1980    1981    1982       1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports 1/                 526               27.3    6.7    22.5   22.9    31.1       2.1       9.8    20.5    17.0    11.0      9.8
Primary                            246                13.1    5.5    16.1    26.2    18.5   -3.2         8.7    24.7    16.1    11.5    10.3
Manufactures                        280               73.9    9.1    35.6    17.0    59.0      8.5       9.5    16.0    17.5    10.3      9.8
Merchandise imports                  3,231               24.2  -1.3    10.5       7.8    27.4   -1.0       -3.0      5.9    4.1      4.5     4.9
Food                               540               -14.2   25.8     8.9     7.1    31.6      6.4       5.5     4.8     4.8      4.8     4.8
Petroleum                          679                19.1  -13.2    30.3    42.3    19.3    22.0        6.5     6.0      5.5     5.0     5.0
Machinery and equipment            903                43.5  -3.4   -11.7    13.6   56.6  -13.0          -4.0     1.0      1.0     1.0     1.0
Other                            1,109                39.5  -9.8    27.5   -3.4    19.3        0.5      -3.5     5.0      5.5     5.0     5.0
PRICES                                                                    (1975   100)                                    (1980 = 100)
Export price index                      --               86.1   85.8    90.2   106.9   107.5   113.2      121.7   130.8   140.6   151.2   162.5
Import price index                      --              112.2  114.8   133.5   150.4   113.6  119.4       123.2   132.4   142.3   153.1   164.5
Terms of trade index                    --               76.7   74.7    67.6    71.1    94.6    94.8       98.7    99.9    99.8    98.8    98.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)                Average Annual Growth Rates
(at current prices)                            (at constant prices)
1975       1982       1987                         1978-82      1983-87
Exports 1/                                                 100.0      100.0       100.0                           21.2          13.5
Primary                                                  79.8       46.8        57.8                           12.6          14.3
Manufactures                                             20.2       53.2       42.2                            25.8          12.6
Imports                                                    100.0      100.0      100.0                             8.7           3.3
Pood                                                     22.2       16.7        18.3                           15.9          4.9
Petroleum                                                10.6       21.0       24.3                            20.1           5.6
Machinery and equipment                                  31.6       28.0        23.7                            8.4           0.0
Other                                                    35.5       34.3        33.8                            6.8           3.4
Share of Total Exports (X)           Share of Total Imports (X)
DIRECTION OF TRADE                                              1975       1982                        1975       1982
Developed market economies                                      17.6        3.9                        62.6       49.1
Developing market economies                                     70.2       84.2                        29.2       43.5
of which Arab countries                                       42.4       78.5                        19.8       54.2
Centrally planned economies                                     12.2       11.5                         8.2        7.3
EMENA CPII-D
1/ Rxcluding re-exports                                                                                                                          November 1983



2 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
JORDAN - BALANCE OF PAYIESTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions USS at current prices)
Indicator                                                              Actual                                                         Projected
1976      1977      1973      1979      1960      1961       ]982      1963      1984      1985      1986       1987      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods & services              1001       1203      1437      11319     2491      3205      3070       3336      3894      4531      5039      5589      7631
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.             207       249        291       402       574       742       749        759      1038      1377      1553      1753      2514
Workers remittances           411       470       520)       400       792      1042      1081      1148       1253      1366      1476      1593      2006
Imports of goods 6 services              1330      1714       2065      2872      3452      4550      4479      4250       4805      5467      6132      6877      9613
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.            1020       1376      1491      1957      2393      3237      3229      2970       3444      3924      4393      4921      6916
Workers remittances               20        46        6'        80       1§4       159        175       213       229       240       265       290       386
Net transfers 2/                           381       504       341      1046      1315      1321       1055       847       690       552       414       414          0
Current account balance                    52        -7      -26t)        -7       374       -26      -334         67      -221      -384      -679      -874    -1982
Private direct investment                 -10         11        5)i       26        31       144         91        94       102       110       118       127        157
MLT loans (net)                             71       190       189       193       232       274        242       193       187       342       756       851      2060
Official                                  70         86       117 !      43       240       283       271        138       131       239       529       595      1442
Private                                     1      104         77'       50        -8        -9       -29         55        56       103       227       256       618
Other capital                             -54       -21        278        20      -266      -382         14         -         -         -         -          -         -
Changes in reserves                       -59      -173      -24'       -232      -371        83        110     -354        -69       -83       -94      -105      -235
International reserves                    567        740       982      1215      1586      1503      1211       1526      1595      1678      1772      1877      2188
Of which;  Gold                           80         81        81        82       208       198       194        200       200       200       200       200       200
Reserves as months of imports                5.0       5.1       5.6       5.2       5.5       4.5        3.2       3.6       3.3       3.1       3.0        2.8       2.7
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                       91        214       221       270       308       407       374        321       282       624       804      1012      1995
Concessional loans                      80        94       115       151        133       256       257       224       197       437        563       708      1397
IDA                                   6         9         6'       13          9         3         4         -         -         -         -          -         -
Other                                74        85       1l1       138       124       253        253       224       197       437       563        708      1397
Non-concessional loans                  11       120        104        99       175       151       117        97         85       187       241       304       598
Official export credits               3         3         E         2        97         13        29        10        12        14         16        18        20
IBD                                  -         -                   4        23         19        22        33        39        43        53         65        60
Other multilateral                    -         -         -         7         14        21        10        15        16        18         19        21        23
Private                               8       117        96        86        41        98         56        49        18       112       153       200        494
External debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                              410       623       841      1048       1266      1423      1685      1832      2064      2506       3110      3886      7970
Official                            361       469       609       765       993      1146       1464      1282      1445      1754      2177      2720       5579
Private                              49       154       232       283       273       277        221       550       619       752       933      1166       2391
Undisbursed debt                       274       563       828       881       1237       857       331       521       532       541        650      1000      2000
Debt service
Total service payments                  27        38        58         96       133       182       193       226       280        332       390       475       765
Interest                              8        15        24        40        58        81         61        98       131       149       190       238       497
Payments as 2 exports 1/                 2.7       3.2       4.0        5.3       5.4       5.7       6-t       6.8        7.2       7.3       7.9       8.5      10.0
Average interest rate
on new loans (2)                         2.4       6.0       6.3        5.3       6.8       5.3       6.0       7.0        7.1)      7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0
Average maturity
of new loans (years)                    25.6      14.4       18.1      21.4      14.8      17.7      20.t7    17.0       17.0)      17.0      17.0      17.0      17.0
Average grace
of new loans (years)                     6.6       3.5        5.6       4.7       3.8       4.3       5.0       4.1       4.0        4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0
As x of Debt Outstanding
at end of Most Recent Year (1982)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                            46.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                           93.3
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                            6.0
--  Data not available.                                                                                                                  EMENA CPII-D
1/  Exports of goods and services including remittances.                                                                                 November 1983
2/  Excluding unrequited transfers by long term resident workers abroad.



-23-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN a/
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1983)
----------us$ Million--
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number  Year        Borrower        Purpose                Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
Fifteen credits
fully disbursed    Jordan                                            86.1
One loan fully
disbursed                                                 15.0
1617   1978          The Arab
Potash Co.    Potash Extraction    35.0                     0.1
1781   1979          Jordan         Education III          19.0                 12.9
1826   1980            "            CVDB                   10.0                  9.1
1893   1980            "            Urban Development    21.0                   18.1
1986   1981            "            Power IV               25.0                 16.7
2068   1982                         Education IV           25.0                 24.0
2162   1982                         Power V                35.0                 33.8
2213   1983            "            Water Supply and
Sewerage          17.0                 17.0
2246   1983                         Education V            18.8                 18.8
2334   1983 b/                      Urban Transport        30.0                 30.0
TOTAL                                                     250.8       86.1    180.5
of which has been repaid                  -           2.0
Total now held by Bank/IDA c/             250.8       84.1
Total undisbursed                                     -      180.5
a! The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
b/ Not yet effective.
c/ Includes exchange rate adjustments; does not include the $30 million
Energy Development Loan approved by the Executive Directors on
December 20, 1983.



-24-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1983)
-------US$ Million------
Year            Obligor          Type of Business       Loan      Equity    Total
1974     Jordan Ceramic Ind.
Co. Ltd.              Ceramic Tiles             1.6      0.2        1.8
1975/    Jordan Fertilizer
78/81/82   Ind. Co.              Phosphatic Fertilizer 79.5 1/   8.7          88.2 1/
1979     Jordan Lime and
Silicate               Building Materials       2.5       0.7        3.2
1979     Jordan Securities       Mon,ey & Capital
Corp.                   Market                            0.7        0.7
1980     Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Leasing                           0.3        0.3
Total Commitments                              83.6 1/  10.6        94.2 1/
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancelled                                      51.1 1/    -         51.1 1/
Total Commitments now held by [FC                    32.5      10.6      43.1
Total Undisbursed                               9.5       0.3        9.8
1/ Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other
participants.



-25-
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I; Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare           One year from March 1982
the project;                                     to March 1983.
(b)  The Agency which has prepared the              Ministry of Education.
project;
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank         December 1981 and March
and date of first Bank mission                   1982.
to consider the project;
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission;        March 1983.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations;            December 2, 1983.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness.                 June 1984.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government would acquire all school sites by end-June 1984
(para 42).
(b) The Government would implement the technical assistance program
through DOP and according to a time schedule and staffing
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (para 42).






IBRD 17475
3R0                                                                                               OCTOBER 1983
N.h ShJ-                           To  amescus          S  Y   R  I A   N
fi$i /                ~~~~~Norh ShunreR     ~     O     X(             
A R A B
/  V.,   H6t El S mSR-, ha $  R E P.
K            .O, A.a .   ;h~ 3   . t
!      - ..  .. :        , z     7 A &      Sweileh          sA R,
-320                                                                                                                                                                         3 A2Ruwfe\-
A40s<O.Hha b                                    El Amrsq
>    i   X  ozz!n \ j                E     Muwasqqzr   
-  _         Mn Nebo          NCa5e K,oq,,-,        _ 
,  Qasre Kharana
-I                -EzI                 S    Ht_        
SAUDI
/ -oorY Al:&yt;   Do                                                                        \.                   ARABIA
J OR DAN
t)AyOou               p                                   SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
GENERAL SECONDARY SCHOOLS
FOR GIRLS
FORBOaYS
COMPULSORY SCHOOLS
Sc I@1   \    4  >>J1 c>O QaZ el J nz                                    ^     FOR GIRLS
/         Rashad ya o c                   / /2 I            j                                       FOR BOYS
..4i                  ';a.1.1^ e~e yX   "       /       5                                       69      NATIONAL CAPITAL
,   /   Shaubak C   |;                '      '         a (                                   CITIES. TOWNS AND VILLAGES
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
SECOND CLASS ROADS
… t,A,,&  _OTHER ROADS
Wool MOuso~~~~~              "~~   ~                           -1---n----I- ~~~~RAILWAYS
Wd A I  r E         -.-- J f O '' 1''~                 ~Y- WADIS
MUDFLATS
\ \ /C,-      RIVERS
)                                 \~c0~'~' \A b V-d tiVOCCJDPIIED T7ERRITORIES
_30.                      Ras e Nagb d           /          \\m                                                                            DVbs           h   S   e   lf
/   1/                              gi~~~~~~~~~~~~E,I Sh,d,,.                                                                        PEP stter;a7 /eJ AA 
/   8 2                                          /                                             \          d         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAUDI ARAB IA
,?  /   -.                                         /    D   elo   20            40         so             9fJA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ~- 
T                                                    V
V                                                                                    ---' '~  ,  /  KILO.ETERS                 -A
S yJ                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~363°. /                                   _      E G( YPr T  \    a.\\
1~~~.



