E-394
14 September 2000
Mr. Ousmane Badiane
RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project - Environmental Assessment Report
Main Report and annexes I to 8 - Draft Report
Please find attached a copy of the above mentioned Report.
With the compliments
0
P. Lucani
Chief, Latin America and West Africa Service
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
Investment Centre Division
FOOD AND AGRICULTURE
ORGANIZATION
OF THE UNITED NATIONS
Viale delle Terme di Caracalla
00100 Rome, Italy
Cables: FOODAGRI ROME
Telex: 625852 FAO I/ 610181 FAO I
Facsimile: 0657056204 Telephone:
0657055629
k~~~~~ .
*   .20
ADM6E 2)00/1






Date:14 September 2000
RWANDA
RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
MAIN REPORT AND ANNEXES 1 TO 8
DRAFT REPORT
FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE
UNITED NATIONS - ROME
INVESTMENT CENTRE DIVISION
FAO/WORLD BANK COOPERATIVE PROGRAMME






RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
RWANDA
RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .........................                                     .                                          iii
1.   INTRODUCTION ............................................................1
2.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION ............................................................2
Project components reviewed by the Team ............................................................4
3.   THE EXISTING ENVIRONMENT ............................................................7
The Physical Environment ............................................................7
The Biological Environment ............................................................9
The Socio-Economic Environment ...........................................................                              11
4.   POLICY, INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK ........................................ 17
Decentralisation of environmental management ...........................................................  18
Institutional roles and responsibilities ...........................................................                    18
Assessment of existing capacity for Environment Management and Monitoring ......... 18
5.   PROJECT ALTERNATIVES ...........................................................                                            21
A. No Project Scenario ...........................................................                                      21
B. With Project scenario ...........................................................                                     22
C. Modified Project Scenario ...........................................................                                22
6.   THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS ...........................................................                                       24
Scope of the Analysis ...........................................................                                       24
Description of the pilot area selected for analysis ................................................... 24
Likely Project Activities ...........................................................                                   25
Typology of Developments ...........................................................                                    25
Probable Negative Environmental Impacts ...........................................................                       28
Impacts related to construction works ...........................................................                       28
Impacts related to Project Operation ...........................................................                        31
7.   MITIGATION MEASURES ...........................................................                                             36
8.   MONITORING ...........................................................                                                      43
Supervision ...........................................................                                                 44
Environmental Appraisal and Advisory Programme ...................................................... 45
Capacity Development and Training ...........................................................                           45
Integration of Environmental Management Plan with the Project ................................ 46



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
9.   SCREENING PROCESS FOR PROJECTS/INTERVENTIONS .................................. 49
Site selection criteria .....................................................     51
Screening steps .....................................................             51
10.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....................................................    60
Establishment of a Technical Comnuittee on Environmental Assessment ..................... 61
National Wetlands Policy .....................................................    61
11. RECOMMENDED FOLLOW-UP ACTIVITIES TO BE COMPLETED DURING
APPRAISAL OR PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE PROJECT .62
ANNEXES
1. Ministries with Mandates for Environment and Natural Resource Management
2. Modified Project Scenario
3. Indicative Budget for the proposed Environmental Mitigation Measures
4. A generalised Environment Impact Identification Matrix
5. Impact Questionnaire Checklist
6. Code of Conduct and Environmental Conditions for Contractors
7. Enforcement of Environmental Recommendations
8. Bibliography



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
SUMMARYAND CONCLUSIONS
(i)       The Rural Sector Support Project (RSSP) aims at assisting the Government of
Rwanda (GOR) to achieve its strategic goal of revitalising the rural economy and thereby
increasing rural incomes, reducing poverty and reinforcing national stability. The WB initially
classified the project as Category B on the assumption that the potential environmental impacts
are either not known or can be appropriately mitigated. The final environmental category was to
be determined based on the result of this EA.
(ii)      As part of the methodology, the EA considered three alternative scenarios: (i) no
project; (ii) with project (based on the Project Concept Document (PCD) of May 2000; and (iii) a
modified project, based on the incorporation of a catchment area approach into project design.
The report's analysis is based on a representative catchment area approach using as an example.
(iii)     Given the fact that project interventions will be identified through a demand driven
process during the implementation phase, no specific sites had been identified at the time of the
LA. In response the assessment was based on the evaluation of likely project supported activities
as identified n the PCD of May 2000. The Kajevuba watershed and associated marshland was
selected as a representative catchment to provide the basis for the E4 's field work (Kajevuba
marshland). This analysis includes identified likely environmental issues, mitigation measures,
costing and monitoring associated with possible project-supported activities. data gaps and
recommended follow up activities to be completed either prior to the appraisal mission or prior to
commencement of project. The report also gives a checklist of environmental issues to be
considered in the selection of individual community investments and guidelines for screening,
scoping, review and clearance and preparation of subprojects requiring environmental analyses
and recommends that these be included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
(iv)      The EA team concluded that in the absence of a project, the already degraded
wetlands will be further silted due to the continued loss of vegetation and associated accelerated
erosion. This in turn would result in less water retention causing reduced flood control Other
identified impacts associated with a no project option are: (i) non-sustainable land use practices
in hillsides and increased pressure on adjacent wetland and other marginal systems due to
declining soil fertility; (ii) the current non-sustainable uses offertilisers and agro-chemicals will
likely increase due to diminishing land productivity contributing to increased nutrient loading
and subsequently eutrophication; and (iii) down stream impacts associated with declining water
quality. Based on the aforementioned analysis, the EA team concluded that the no project option
will be costly in both economic and conservation terms and is not a viable option. Based on an
analysis of the PCD and subsequent field mission, the EA team identified a number of potentially
significant impacts, both positive and negative. The component dealing with the rehabilitation of
the marshlands and hillsides was considered in particular detail. While the EA mission
considered that the proposed project would address some of the constraints raised under the no
project option (e.g., rehabilitation of degraded marshlands leading to increased productivity,
rehabilitation of the hillsides to control erosion, and maximising productivity in marshlands and
hillsides through increased crop production for both food and cash generation) it was felt there
was little guarantee that people would maintain sufficient interest in participating in the
rehabilitation of the hillsides, since the priority crops selected by the GOR such as rice and
iii



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
maize, are suitable for wetland systems. Given the potential adverse impacts and the
environmental issues discussed above, the EA team proposed a modified project design based on
a catchment approach which would address the linkages and processes between hillsides and the
valley bottoms. The purpose of such an approach would be to: (i) restore the capacity of the
marshlands and hillsides for production while enhancing other ecological and environmental
benefits; (ii) limit negative effects on trans-boundary water resources; and (iii) promote
biodiversity conservation in both natural and modified environments The main elements of the
modified project design include: i.) introduction of buffer zones at intervals with natural
vegetation to control flow of water and reduce downstream impact. These buffer zones will also
help to filter some of the effluents from activities in wetlands and the catchment and provide
fodder for livestock and materials for thatch; ii) zoning the project areas and making restrictions
on cultivation of critical habitats for water storage or breeding habitats for wild animals.
(v)       Despite the positive benefits, which would accrue through a catchment approach,
some adverse impacts associated with the project approach appear to be unavoidable (e.g., filling
in selected marshlands). Other significant adverse effects associated with likely infrastructure
developments and marshland rehabilitation supported under the project are: (i) water, soil and
sediment pollution resulting from increase use of chemical amendments; (ii) reduced soil fertility
due to poor management of the hillside and wetlands and the intensive use of the soil without
replenishment of nutrients; (iii) siltation of canals leading to flooding on site; (iv) health issues
due to the modification the wetlands, which creates conducive conditions for the breeding of
mosquitoes (Anopheles gambiance) which is a vector for the spread of malaria; (v) flooding
downstream due to reduced retention time for water in the canals- increase size of canals and
construct buffer zones at intervals to hold excess water; (vi) loss of soil biodiversity due to habitat
modification and loss and through use of pesticides and agro-chemical which affect soil micro-
organisms. This will in turn affect soil fertility, which is dependent on these micro-organisms; vii
reduction of atmospheric moisture resulting in increased ambient temperatures; and (viii) loss of
traditional materials for thatching and craft manufacture.   Finally, the Team particularly
questioned the long-term sustainability of the rehabilitated marshlands given that previous
rehabilitation projects have not increased productivity in the long term (Aide memoir of February
2000
(vi)      The main beneficial impacts associated with the rehabilitation of the marshlands and
hillsides through applying a watershed approach were identified as (i) restoration of soil
hydration resulting in an increase in soil moisture, (ii) improved soil structure, increase in
organic matter and no change in the water table; (iii) improved microclimate amelioration
depending on the type of crops cultivated and if properly combined with agro-forestry practices;
(iv) increased production through improved yields per unit area; (v) an increase in biodiversity in
terms of soil fauna and flora and other plants and animals, especially water birds, which forage
in the canals and other watering points; and (vi) the possibility of integrated agriculture involving
crop production, livestock and aquaculture.
(vii)     Several measures are proposed to mitigate the potential adverse environmental
impacts identified with likely project activities to be supported under RSSP. Given the fact that
there are numerous variables relating to the unresolved issues in terms of specific sites and
activities, the costs of the mitigation measures are only tentatively estimated. An indicative budget
for the proposed measures is given based on extrapolation from similar assessments elsewhere. It
is proposed that the costs of the mitigation measures be more accurately determined during the
iv



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
development of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Given the range of issues to be resolved,
the complexity of preparing the management plan, the EA mission recommends that additional
technical assistance be provided.
(viii)    The mission considers RSSP provides an opportunity to restore the degraded
environment and ecosystems in Rwanda and supports the approach to rehabilitate both hillsides
and the marshlands. The mission however notes that the initial activities outlined in the PCD
place a significantly greater emphasis on the marshlands. The mission therefore recommends that
a catchment area approach be adopted by the project.
(ix)      In addition to specific mitigation measures, the EA also recommends the project
should support several cross-sectoral measures. These are providing support for: (i) improved
co-ordination among key players and actors in the field of environment; (ii) development of a
more cohesive legal framework for environment management; (iii) strengthening environmental
enforcement capacity; (iv) building capacity for environment management of the relevant
institutions; and (v) technical assistance to elaborate the EA process for GOR.
(x)       At the local level the EA recommends the project support the following: (i) close
involvement of local communities in the design, planning and execution of sub-projects; (ii)
adoption of guidelines for sound environmental management; (iii) development of environmental
standards and an environmental code of conduct to be followed by the contractors and sub
contractors; (iv) preparation of management and zoning plans to provide for proper land use in
both the hillsides and marshlands. These management plans will also define the duties and
responsibilities of the various stakeholders including farmers, farmers associations, local
authorities and the central govemment; and (v) carry out a detailed water balance study of
selected sites to establish the water requirements for proposed crops in addition to their
ecological demands, as well as livestock and humans prior to commencement of any
rehabilitation activities.
(xi)      During project implementation, monitoring will be crucial to ensure that the
proposed mitigation measures are brought to bear. It is particularly important to involve the
communities in the monitoring of the environmental impacts since they will be closely involved in
project activities on a day- to-day basis. In this respect, it will be necessary to identify monitoring
indicators to be used in evaluating the results of the mitigation measures. These will have to be
developed and costed during the preparation of the PIP.
(xii)     Existing studies on hydrology should be used to establish baseline conditions for use
in monitoring. Additional ecological studies will be required to address key data gaps in the
literature, which at present has a strong bias towards assessing marshland development for
agricultural
v






1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    The Rural Sector Support Project (RSSP) aims at assisting the Government of Rwanda
(GOR) to achieve its strategic goal of revitalising the rural economy and thereby increase rural
incomes, reduce poverty and reinforce national stability. The Bank designated RSSP as a category
B project on the assumption that the potential environmental impacts are either not known or can
be appropriately mitigated. The final environmental category is to be determined based on the
results of this environmental assessment (EA).
1.2    The present EA was prepared by the FAO Investment Centre' based on the World Bank
Operational guidelines. The GOR has yet to develop its own EA guidelines. The EA is intended
to provide the WB and GOR with information on the existing environmental conditions and
potential environmental impacts which could result from project supported activities and makes
recommendations designed to mitigate potential adverse impacts. The EA was part of a wider study
designed to assess the profitability and sustainability of development and rehabilitation of farmed
marshlands and hillsides. The other aspects of the study were undertaken by different team members
and are not discussed in this report.
1.3    Given the fact that project interventions will be identified through a demand driven
process and no specific sites had been identified at the time of the EA mission, the report's
analysis is based on a representative catchment area approach using the Kajevuba catchment
(including its associated marshland) as an example. The analysis identified likely environmental
issues, mitigation measures, costing and monitoring associated with possible project-supported
activities. The report also gives a checklist of environmental issues to be considered in the
selection of individual community investments and guidelines for screening, scoping, review and
clearance and preparation of subprojects requiring environmental analyses, which will be included
in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
1.4    Although in principle the EA should have been completed in time to facilitate appraisal of
the project, the EA mission considers that a full EA should be based on specific sites and defined
activities. Therefore the EA mission has recommended follow up activities to be completed either
prior to the appraisal mission or before commencement of the project. In addition, selection
criteria have been prepared to assist in screening of project proposals. This is discussed in detail
in Chapter 9
The EA team comprised of Paul Mafabi, as the international consultant. Charles Gahire and Prof Jean Bosco
Gashagaza served as national consultants. Barbara Cooney of the FAO Investment Centre provided inputs on
the GEF aspects.
1



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.1    This chapter of the EA report provides a summary of the project as originally formulated
in the project concept document (PCD) and a description of the project components assessed by
the EA team.
2.2    The overall programme as described in the PCD will consist of three consecutive phases
implemented over a period of 14 years with the first phase lasting 4 years followed by two
sequential, five year phases. The objective of the initial phase is to lay the necessary groundwork
for the introduction of expanded activities in subsequent stages of the program. This phase is
expected to concentrate on strengthening the institutional and technical capacities of the primary
target groups and institutions that will participate in the implementation of program activities.
These include: (i) farmer organisations; (ii) private sector operators, such as Specialised Local
Organisations (SLOs), that intervene in the area of rural development; (iii) private R&D
institutions; (iv) local administrations and community groups; and (v) the lead research and
extension institutions.
2.3    Based on the results of Phase I the subsequent phases of the Programme would extend and
deepen the institutional and technical support and raise the investment activities in order to
accelerate the pace of intensification and commercialisation of agricultural production. Specific
activities envisioned to be supported in subsequent phases include: (i) establishment of effective
and sustainable agricultural services delivery systems; and (ii) development of practical
infrastructure improvement and maintenance arrangements. These two sets of activities would
build the core of the program to which targeted sub-sector specific interventions would be added
to: (i) improve and sustain the efficient production in currently farmed marshlands and hill-side
areas; (ii) raise the competitiveness of the export crop sector; and (iii) stimulate employment and
income generation in the off-farm sector.
Phase 1 of the program would be composed of the following six components:
*  Rehabilitation of Marshland and Hillside Areas
*  Promotion of Exports Agriculture.
*  Support to Agricultural Services Delivery Systems.
*  Rural Transport Support.
*  Promotion of Off-farm Productive Activities in Rural Areas.
*  Co-ordination and Monitoring
Under the latter component, the PCD envisages three sets of activities. These are the:
*  establishment of a Project Co-ordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU);
*  design and implementation of a mechanism to effectively co-ordinate the programme
activities; and
*  design and implementation of a mechanism to effectively monitor and evaluate the
programme activities.
2



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
2.4   It is proposed that environment issues be integrated in the project co-ordination and
monitoring activities at an early stage. This will necessitate including environmental appraisal as
part of the TORs for the PCMU.
2.5    A GEF component is also proposed to be financed through an Adjustable Programme
Loan (APL) to cover the incremental costs associated with the conservation and sustainable use of
natural resources in critical upland watersheds and wetlands of international significance in
Rwanda. This component would increase opportunities for improving rural livelihoods on a
sustainable basis while at the same time rehabilitating and conserving the natural resource base.
2.6    The PCD proposes a demand driven process to identify projects to be funded under the
RSSP through a decentralised system.
3



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Project components reviewed by the Team
2.7    The PCD proposed that an EA be conducted to assess the potential impacts of small-scale
rural infrastructure investments including small-scale irrigation and drainage infrastructure, rural
roads and small bridges. The EA would also consider the potential impacts of increased use of
chemical inputs. The PCD also proposed that project interventions be identified through a demand
driven process but no specific sites had been identified by the time of the EA mission. Table 1
gives a priority list of marshlands (about 4,033 ha) were proposed for possible rehabilitation under
the RSSP.
Rehabilitation of marshland and hillside farming
2.8    This component provides for rehabilitation of irrigation channels and canals in the
marshlands and the establishment of terraces in the hillsides. Two terracing techniques are
proposed namely: progressive terracing and radical terracing involving the construction of bunds.
The total area of marshland projected for rehabilitation under this component is 40,000 ha of
which 5,000 ha would be completed in the initial phase. Five development typologies and five
farm models were proposed by the RSSP preparation team's irrigation engineer and the
agronomist respectively, and are discussed in detail in Chapter 6.
Rehabilitation of rural roads and small bridges
2.9    Although this is mentioned in the PCD as requiring an EA, no details are provided as to
the location, and length of the rural roads to rehabilitated. The PCD proposes that the
improvement of transport infrastructure will have to be planned and implemented at the local
level.
Project components not assessed by the EA
2.10   The PCD did not provide any information of sufficient detail for the EA for the other
components in terms of their location and specific activities. All of these components may well
involve improvement of infrastructure, which could directly or indirectly impact on the
environment or lead to induced impacts. It is proposed that these be subject to the screening
process described in Chapter 9.
4



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Table 1: Proposed list of marshlands to be rehabilitated during the first phase of RSSP'
Nameof                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~Land Use
Name of    Prefecture    Communes   Area (ha)   Actual             Future        Remarks
Marshlands                                                           under RSSP
Ngoma,
Migina                       Shyanda, Ndor 1 000        Traditional    Rice         Studies
Nyaruhengeri                                           available
Gishamvu
Mugusa
Cyili                        Ntyazo        450          Rice           Rice         Dike
Butare    Muyaga
Ngiryi         Butare        Shyanda
Nyiramageni                  Mugusa        350          Rice           Rice         Dike
Ndora
Agasasa                      Ntyazo        200          Rice      and Rice          Dike      and
Traditional                 Extensions
Nyarubogo                    Muyira        200          Rice      and Rice          Dike      and
Traditional     l           extensions
Kinyegenyege                 Ntongwe       200          Rice      and Rice          Dike      and
(ou Burakari)                                           Traditional                 extension
Mukunguri      Gitarama      Nyamabuye                  Rice                        Dike      and
Ntongwe      250          Traditionae     Rice         extension
______________MuginaTrdtoaexnsn
Ruvubu                       Ngenda        109          Rice           Rice         aSvuaidliable
Kigali Rural  Gikomero
Kabuye                       Rutongo       454          Rice           Rice
Rubungo
Rugazi- Bisenga              Kabarondo    170           Traditional    Rice         Extension
lUbungo   Kigarama      ______   _______
Kibaya         Kibungo       Birenga       350          Traditional    Rice         Extension
~~~~~~~Rukira                      _  _  _  _    _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _     _  _  _ _
Murambi                                                Dike     and
anyonyomba    Umutara        Muhura        250          Traditional    Rice         Extension
(Byumba)                                               Extension
Kirimbi        Kibuye        Rwamatamu   50                                         Extension
TOTAL                                      4 033 ha
Observations
2.11   The PCD  and Aide-memoire of February 2000 indicate that RSSP will only support
marshlands, which have been previously modified and not include new wetland areas. However,
the priority list submitted by MINAGRI in June 2000 includes several wetland areas in Kibungo
and Umutara 2, which are currently in a natural state except for some cultivation and burning at
the edges. These are Rugazi-Bisenga, Kibaya and Kanyonyomba in areas in Kibungo and
Umutara3, respectively. The conversion from  traditional farming to a rice scheme would
'Priority list provided by MINAGRI in June 2000
2 During the site visit the mission noted that Kibaya and Rugazi Bisenga and Kanyonyomba wetlands are largely
intact, although fresh cultivation was observed at the edge.
3 During the site visit the mission noted that Kibaya and Rugazi Bisenga and Kanyonyomba wetlands are largely
intact, although fresh cultivation was observed at the edge.
5



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
necessitate major infrastructure developments including levelling of land and possibly
establishment of access roads. The aforementioned proposal which includes natural marshlands
does not comply with the Bank's declared policy of not targeting new wetlands areas under the
RSSP and should be excluded from the list of to be selected.
6



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
3. THE EXISTING ENVIRONMENT1
3.1    Rwanda's rich natural resource base comprising of the land, water, forests, and wildlife
sectors is the country's main source of household and national income, providing the basis for the
country's farning, fishing, household energy production and tourism. Over time, however, these
resources have become degraded due in part to the high population growth coupled with lack of a
comprehensive policy and legal framework to provide for the sustainable management of the
natural resources. Rwanda faces a number of major environmental problems. These include:
cultivation on steep and fragile slopes leading to degraded hillsides; silted rivers, unplanned
conversion of wetlands and other ecologically fragile areas. The following sections give an
overview of the key aspects of the Environment in Rwanda based on literature availed to the EA
mission.
The Physical Environment
Climate
3.2   The climate of Rwanda is described as temperate equatorial type with average temperature
ranging between 16-17° C and an annual rainfall of between 700-1400 mm. The characteristics of
the climate are linked with geomorphologic make up of the country's natural regions. .Table 2
summarises the climatic parameters of the three natural regions.
Topography
3.3   Rwanda is a small, mountainous and landlocked country covering 26,328 Km2 The
country is characterised by vast hills and mountains interspersed with valleys. The relief of
Rwanda is varied and broken with an average altitude of 1,250m above mean sea level. There are
four dominant types of relief; plateaux and basins, hills, mountains and plains. These influence the
climate and in tum the socio-economic activities.
3.4    Rwanda has been described as country of a 'Thousand hills' ( mille collines) because of
the numerous highly dissected hills, sometimes with a flat peaks and convex slopes separated by
deep valleys measuring between 50m to 100m whose bottoms are covered with alluvium matter.
Hydrology
3.5    Rwanda's hydrology is characterised by a dense hydrographic network with lakes, rivers
and wetlands. The country is divided into two major drainage basins, the Nile to the east and the
Congo to the west. The Congo River basin covers 33% of Rwanda and receives 10% of the total
national waters. The Nile River Basin covers an area of 67% of the territory and delivers 90% of
the national waters. The waters of the Nile River basin flow out through the Akagera river system,
which contributes between 8-10% to the Nile drainage system.
'Based on field observations and available information.
7



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
3.6    Approximately 8%  of the entire country or 210,000 ha are under water with lakes
occupying an area of about 128,000 ha, rivers cover 7,260 ha and water in wetlands and valleys a
total of 77,000 ha.'.
Wetlands
3.7    The term wetlands in Rwanda has been restricted to the large permanent swamps while
the seasonal grass swamps have been generally classified as marshlands, which is equivalent to
the French term marais. These systems are the most physically and chemically heterogeneous of
all the aquatic ecosystems in Rwanda. They act as sinks for silt particles and soluble inorganic
nutrients but are also sources for dissolved and particulate organic matter. They are in effect
seasonal wetlands with the water table near or above the lowest ground surface during the wet
season. They do not have large flood plains (generally less than 200 m wide) or great length.
From a hydrological point of view, marshlands are complex, with runoff and river valleys further
down stream replace seepage in the upland areas. The marshlands are environmentally fragile, and
require adequate safeguards to maintain their ecological integrity when used for agricultural
production.
3.8    Wetlands occupy about 10% of the country and comprise three large swamps and small
wetlands, which are interspersed between the country's many hills. The main swamps are
Akanyaru (30,000 ha) on the border with Burundi, Mugesera-Rugwero in the Southeast, Kagera
swamps along the Tanzania border to the east Nyabarongo (10,000 ha) and Rugezi wetlands
(5,000 ha) to the north.
3.9    Under the Ramsar Convention definition2, the majority of the marshlands can be
classified as artificial or man made wetlands. They would fall in two broad categories namely:
* Inland wetlands which include flood plains, ponds, marshes and peatlands
* Artificial wetlands which include reservoirs, barrages, irrigation canals, and rice
fields.
3.10   According to both the National Water Resources Management Policy,3 and the National
Soil and Water Conservation Policy, wetlands play an important role in flood or overflow plains
where they act as a buffer. They reduce the maximal flow rates during the rainy season and
maintain a relatively high flow rate during the dry season. The document particularly notes that
the buffer role of the-cultivated swamps has been reduced due to the very fact of cultivation.
3.11   The total area of marshlands in Rwanda is estimated to be 168,000 ha of which
approximately 94,000 ha have* already been developed mostly for agriculture and livestock
farming although this figure could be much higher given that most of the areas are not under
management and therefore not captured in the official statistics.
Based on the draft Common Country Assessment for Rwanda prepared by UNDP and being reviewed by
MINITERE.
2 The Ramsar Convention defines wetlands as 'areas of marsh, fen, peatland or water, whether natural or
artificial, permanent or temporary, with water that is static or flowing fresh or salt, including areas of
marine water the depth of which at low tide does not exceed six metres'.
3 The National Water Resources Management Policy of July 1998, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock,
Environment and Rural Development.
8



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
3.12   Only 5,000 ha of the 94,000 ha can be considered as properly managed and equipped to
permit perennial agriculture. Of this 4000 ha are in need of management. This means that over
95% of the marshlands are not currently under proper management.
Table 2: Climatic parameters of the natural regions of Rwanda
Parameters               High altitude         Central Plateau      Eastern Plateau and
Region                   (1800 -3000 m)        (1500 - 1800 m)         western lands
900 - 1400 m)
Rainfall (mm)             1300 -2000             1200-1400               700-1400
Temperature °C               16-17                 18-21                  20-24
Evapo-transpiration (mm)   1000-1300             1300-1400               1400-1700
Relative Humidity (%)        80-95                 70-80                  50-70
Insolation (hrs/day)         5-6                    5-6                   6-6.5
Wind (Km/h                   7-8                    6-7                    4-6
Flow coefficient (%)          18                    22                      10
Soils
3.13   The soils of Rwanda are highly varied but include peat, clay, loam and sandy soils. In the
hillsides, the soils are comprised mainly of loam soils while the valleys are characterised by clay
with high organic matter and peat in some locations. The soil has generally a low fertility
potential and on steep slopes, it has been degraded by erosion. Erosion control actions have been
undertaken but they remain insufficient.
The Biological Environment
Vegetation
3.14   Rwanda contains a wide variety of different habitats and species due in part to the varied
topography, which is responsible for diverse regional climatic conditions. Despite this rich
biodiversity, endemism is not thought to be high. Vegetation can best be described as a regional
mosaic, which includes sections of the Guineo-Congolian and Sudanian vegetation. The Lake
Victoria biome is sub-divided into secondary grass mosaics and east African bushland. This is in
turn, divided into shrub savannah with trees under 4 metres high and acacia wooded savannah
with trees over 4 metres high. Secondary forest mosaics produced by human activity have
replaced natural vegetation in several part of Rwanda.
Forests
3.15   According to FAO (1995)' natural forests covered 164,000 ha in 1990, while plantation
forests and other wooded land covered an area of 946,000 ha. There are 4 main montane forest
reserves in Rwanda: Nyungwe, Giswati, Mukura and Volcans. These forests are characterised by
high altitudes (2000 m on average varying from 1600 m to 4500 m) and a dense understorey and
clearings typical of montane forests. The total area under forest cover including natural and
FAO,1995. Forest Resources Assessment 1990. Global synthesis. FAO Forestry Paper 124. Rome, Italy.
9



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
plantations was reduced from 660,125 ha in 1960 to 382, 660 in 1996 given reduction of about
57% of the original forest cover
Savannah
3.16 Savannahs occur mainly in the eastern part of Rwanda and comprise five distinct natural
zones: Mutara, Buganza, Mubari-Migogo, Gishaka and Bugesera 2These are dominated by
xerophyllous vegetation in which Acacia senegal, Albizia petersiana and Lannea humilis are
dominant species. The Mutara sub-region is dominated open savannahs in which Themeda,
Hyparrhenia and Cymbopogon predominate. The Buganza sub-region is an undulating plateau
covered by savannah of Combretum and Acacia siberiana. The Gisaka region is wetter the other
zones with vegetation comprised of a mosaic of mesopyhllus forest and woodland savannahs.
Bugesera sub-region is in the south-east of Rwanda where the vegetation is dominated by
woodland and shrubbery savannah dominated by Acacia spp and Combretum.
The Protected Area System3
3.17   Rwanda has three main categories of protected areas. These are: (i) national parks, which
are areas exclusively reserved for the protection, conservation of flora and fauna as well as
protecting the geological formations of scientific and aesthetic value. There are presently two
national parks, Virunga National Park and Akagera National Park; (ii) hunting reserves (Domaine
de Chasse) where hunting is controlled while other forms of exploitation are prohibited and entry
is controlled; and (iii) sanctuaries (Reserve Speciale) which are created by Presidential decree to
protect characteristic communities of animals or threatened plants or animals species together
with habitats for their survival. No Reserve Speciale has been created in Rwanda to date.
Other Critical Habitats
3.19      Apart from the protected areas, nine sites have proposed for listing as Important Bird
Areas. Four of these sites are either wetlands or systems associated with wetlands (Sam
Kanyamibwa 1999). These are Nyabarongo, Rugezi Swamp, Akanyaru wetlands and Akagera
National Park. Important Bird Areas (IBAs) are ecosystems which support globally threatened
species, biome restricted assemblages and restricted range species, based on internationally agreed
criteria developed by IUCN and Birdlife International. These wetland ecosystems are sustained by
the water from the catchments. Their sustainability depends to a large on the way the sustainable
management of activities in the catchments. Apart from Akagera, which is protected, the other
three wetlands are not protected.
'B ased on the draft national biodiversity strategy and action plan for Rwanda.
2 Vande Weghe,1990, Habiyamere & Goussard 1992
3Based on Dr Sam Kanyamibwa. 1995. Important Bird Areas for Africa. Rwanda, World Conservation
Monitoring Centre
10



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
The Socio-Economic Environment'
Population
3.18   Rwanda has a population of about 8.35 million people with an annual growth rate of about
3.0% and an average population density of about 400 people per km2, one of the highest in Africa.
This high population pressure has had a significant impact on the use of natural resources
including in the cultivation of marginal lands, particularly very steep fragile slopes which are
susceptible to erosion, a reduction in fallow periods and a general decrease in farm sizes. This has
led to increased land degradation, including loss of soil fertility, erosion problems and a reduction
in yields and productivity. This has also resulted in the encroachment on protected areas and
forest reserves.
Agriculture
3.19   Agriculture is the mainstay of Rwanda's economy. Approximately ninety-one percent of
the population depends on the sector, which is estimated to contribute about 40% and 30% to the
GDP and export earnings, respectively. According to the census of MINAGRI, agricultural arable
land covers an area of about 1,385,000 ha or about fifty-two percent of the total area of the
country's. Per capita land holdings are very small with an average of about 0,6 ha per family. The
main food crops are bananas, beans, sorghum, sweet potatoes, Irish potatoes, cassava, maize and
rice which was recently introduced in the country. Vegetables are mainly tomatoes, cabbages, and
peas.
3.20   The GOR has defined the agricultural sector development policy whose main political and
strategic orientations are contained in the Agricultural Development Strategy document (1998).
According to the strategic options retained by the Government, priority is given to food security
for the population. Within this framework, agricultural production intensification is centred on the
development of irrigated crops. The priority actions in the sector therefore are the sustainable
development and reclamation of marshlands as well as watershed protection and soil fertility
improvement.
Infrastructure
3.21   Rwanda is served by a wide network of roads, which traverse the entire country. These
vary in structure and range from bitumised roads to all weather earth roads. At the time of the EA
mission, there was evidence of road rehabilitation in several parts of the country. The access roads
to most of the rural areas and potential sites visited are in a state of disrepair and are being
targeted for development under the RSSP.
Social structure and organisation
3.22   Farmers are organised in Farmers Associations or co-operatives, which co-ordinate
farming activities in the communities. Membership to the association includes both men and
women. However, the civil unrest of the 1994 and the associated genocide, several of these
A separate Social Assessment was carried by Ms Cremona
11



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
associations have been affected. In some of the communities there are more women than men who
have either died or serving prison sentences. This has implications on labour availability and
social organisation.
Resettlement of returnees
3.23   Rwanda's history has been characterised by social conflict, the latest being the civil unrest
and genocide of 1994. The GOR is implementing a programme of resettlement of returnees
(primarily through the Midugudu programme). This involves establishing settlements with basic
infrastructure such as roads and healthcare units. If properly implemented, this policy could
reduce pressure on natural resources. However, the environmental consequences of this policy
need to be assessed.
Livelihoods and per capita income
3.24   According to the UNDP Human Development Report' for Rwanda, more than 90 % of the
population depends on agriculture for their livelihoods. The average land holdings is about 0.6 are
and a per capita income of US$250. This means that the majority of the people live below the
poverty lines and are not capable of meeting their basic human needs.
Local government
3.25   The GOR has launched a programme of democratic decentralisation which aims among
other objectives, to devolve power to the local people thereby fighting poverty, improving the
quality of governance and promoting the mobilisation and participation of the people in the
determination of their well being.2 Rwanda is currently organised into Prefectures, Communes,
Sectors and Cells3. Under the decentralisation policy, the central govemment will be responsible
for conservation and environment protection policy while tourism and environmental protection
will be devolved to the local governments.
Health issues
3.26   According to the Ministry of Health, malaria is one of the five main killer diseases among
adults and children in the country, followed by diarrhoea and respiratory infections. Both malaria
and diarrhoea are water-related diseases whose prevalence is exacerbated by the modification of
marshlands and prolonged periods of interaction between people and marshlands. Table 3 gives
figures of malaria and diarrhoea cases in the communes associated with three marshlands, while
Table 4 gives a comparison of-malaria cases in Health Centres of Kajevuba for the first six
months of 1998 and 1999. This shows significant increases in malaria cases, which is attributed in
part to project activities at Kajevuba.
' UNDP Human Development Report Rwanda 1999 and Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning,
Directorate of Statistics (Rwanda July 1999).
2 Based on the National Decentralisation Policy May 2000.
3 Under the decentralisation policy, these names will change to Intara, Uterere, Imirenge and Utugari
respectively (These are yet to be created by law)
12



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
3.27   According to the Secretary General of MINISANTE, the government is implementing a
cost sharing scheme in which the patients make a contribution towards the cost of the medical
services offered at health centres. RSSP may have to consider supporting the establishment of
medical insurance schemes in proximity to sites supported under the project, given that
communities may not afford the services.
Table 3: Incidence of water-related diseases in selected communes in Rwanda
Marshland   Health Centre                         Number of cases                        Population
Malaria     Malaria    Diarrhoea  Diarrhoea   Bilharzia
(non     (confirmed   (bloody)      (non
confirmed)      )                    bloody)
Kajevuba    Kajevuba           2,338     826          28          131        0           20,992
Kiyanza            1,825    0            32          62         0           27,432
Kinyinya           2,512     186         61          170        0           50,000
Gikomero           1,899    32           33          95         0           14,155
Bishenyi    Remera             5,143    2,931         132        221         0           26,495
Rukoma
Kamonyi           5,634    2,846         33          56         0           18,802
Kigese             7,602     1.011       12          93         0           17,039
Gihara             5,020    2,477        52          106        0           16,043
Rugende     Kabuga             6,435     31           33          89         0           6,884
Masaka             2,072    3,361        131         776        0           20,000
Nyagasambu         2,076    647          88          52         31          25.586
Table 4:    Comparison of malaria cases at Kajevuba Health Centre for the first 6 months of 1998 and 1999
Month                                    Number of cases
1998                          1999
January                         171                            375
February                         114                           520
March                           102                           393
April                          87                             274
May                            167                           231
June                           145                            193
13



RWANDA: RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Environmental Assessment Report
Table 5: An overview of the environmental situation of the 8 potential sites visited by the EA team.
Wetland      Prefecturel   Area   Wetland         Ecological            Major  On-site  Offsite Development Activities              Existing/Potential      Project      Relevant
Commune    (ha)    Type              Significance          Development                                                Environmental Issues
Activities        Upstream             Downstream          Onsite        Upstream           Downstream
Milindi      Kigali Rural  200    Seasonal        - critical habitat for 3  Sorghum        - livestock          -  public  water  -    habitat  -         erosion/  -        water
Shorongi                             endangered species    Vegetable         - Slash and Bum   supply                 conversion    sedimentation      contamination
agriculture                             -      water
contaminati
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  o n
Cyilli       Butare        350    Permnanent    int. migratory  bird  Rice                 coffee               not known           -habitat      -erosion/         flooding,
Mugusa                              flyway                                                                            conversion    sedimentation      water
contamination
Kajevuba     Kigali Rural   100    Seasonal       int. migratory  bird  Sorghum            Banana               public      water  Habitat        erosion           flooding
Gikomero                            flyway                 Vegetable          coffee               supply             conversion    sedimentation      water quality
brick making         sugar plantation   soil acidity
-critical habitat for                   craft making         individual
globally                             rice                 livestock farms
threatened
species
Masaka       Kigali Rural  90      Permanent      not known              Maize             Coffee               not known           Habitat       erosion            flooding
Kanombe                                                                       papyrus factory                         modificatio                      water quality
n
papyrus
_______            __________________   ____________________                  ~~~~~~facto r
Bishenyi If   Gitarama     100    Seasonal        breeding habitat for  Maize              Maize and Sorghum   not known            habitat       erosion           flooding
Runda                                water birds           Tree nurseries     Brick factory                           modificatio
Brick making                                               n
14



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Wetland     Prefecture/  Area   Wetland        Ecological           Major  On-site  Offsite Development Activities          Existing/Potential    Project      Relevant
Commune   (ha)   Type             Signiricance         Development                                       _     Environmental Issues
Activities       Upstream            Downstream        Onsite        Upstream         Downstream
Mutashoma  Gikongoro   100    Permanent    critical    breeding  Vegetables          agro-forestry       Agriculture        erosion      broken terraces   flooding
habitat for cranes                                                                        erosion
flood control
Mwogo       Gikongoro    100    Permanent    not known              Sorghum          brick making        sorghum            siltation    broken terraces   flooding
maize                          erosion
Rukondo     Gikongoro    Not    Permanent    Intemat   migratory  Largely intact     banana,              Sorghum           slash   and  devegetation     water quality
Rukondo      know                 bird flyway                            agro-forestry                         bum
n                    critical  habit  for                                                         agriculture
endemic species
15



RWANDA: Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment Report
3.30   Based on the analysis in Table 5, the following is a summary of the main environmental issues
arising from the present activities in both the hillsides and the marshlands:
*  Eroded and degraded hillsides with tree cover on most hills well below 50%
*  Silted rivers and streams an indication of sedimentation from the eroded hillsides
*  Reduced biodiversity especially species which can adopt to modified habitats
*  Increased mean air temperature, greater range of temperature fluctuations daily and
seasonally
*  Reduced soil fertility and reduced crop yields as most of the nutrients are mined and
exported with the crops and little or no replenishment
*  Polarisation of wealth to either a few  wealthy individuals or those whose have
managed to have access to natural resources. This forces the poor into marginal areas
thus causing further environmental degradation.
16



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
4. POLICY, INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
4.1   In Rwanda, the institutional responsibility for environment and natural resource
management is shared between several ministries which include: Ministry of Land, Human
Resettlement and Environment Protection (MINITERE), Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and
Forestry (MINAGRI), Ministry of Energy, Water and Natural Resources (MINERENA), Ministry
of Works, Transport and Communication (MINITRACO) and Ministry of Commerce, Industry
and Tourism (MINICOM). Several local and international agencies also deal with various aspects
of the environment. These are described in Table 6.
4.2   The GOR  has yet to develop or adopt comprehensive environment policies or
Environmental Assessment guidelines. However, several existing and draft laws make reference
to the ownership and use of hillsides, marshlands and other aspects of the environment. GOR has
prepared a draft Environmental Strategy (last version of 1998), which highlights the following:
-  Consciousness raising with regard to responsibilities, mobilisation and participation of
all persons and organisations involved;
e Integration of environmental concerns in all decisions involving resource, land and
space exploitation;
*  Rational management of natural resources, land and space;
*  Restoration and maintenance of sound environmental conditions;
*  Improvement of knowledge about the environment as a whole, and particularly about
the human and natural components of the environment;
*  Recognition of the ecological, cultural and economic value and the role of natural
resources, especially the ones that until now were intended to be protected; and
*  Adjustment of approach according to the specific conditions of Rwanda's various
regions.
4.3   Existing policy and legislation provides incentives to convert wetlands into production areas
as illustrated in the following sections.
4.3   The land decree of July 1960 stipulates that all marshlands are exclusive property of the
State and are given freely to the people of Rwanda for their use and profit. This decree also states
implicitly that the government has an unconditional right to take land back for redistribution or
other considerations for greater .public benefit. In such cases they should be compensated. As a
common property resource with open access, there is no security of tenure. Moreover, no specific
conditions for sound environmental management are attached to the use of the marshlands. The
lack of security for tenure and the absence of environment conditions have served as a
disincentive to the wise use and sustainable management of wetlands. A draft land law' under
preparation will require that individual landowners protect the environmental resources on their
land.
'the land law is being revised, but there is no time frame when it will completed.
17



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
4.4   The National Water Resources Management Policy of 1998 has the main objective to
support sustainable economic and social development and the eradication of poverty. The policy
is intended to provide guidance to the water sector in Rwanda, to government departments,
foreign development partners NGOs and the population at large. The policy identifies several
problems including:
*  Soil erosion and inadequate watershed management
*  Agricultural technologies that are unsuitable to water resources management;
*  Low level of development in the water sector
*  Agriculture, which is the principal economic sector, depends almost entirely on
rainfall.
4.5   The draft National Soil and Water Conservation Policy among others, aims at optimising
soil exploitation both at hill and swamp level while preserving the precious soil patrimony and
preserving the environment. This policy recognises that efficient soil conservation programmes
must take into account actions for the protection of both watersheds and lowlands.
Decentralisation of environmental management
4.6       Under the decentralisation policy adopted in May 2000, environmental management is
one of the functions, which will be devolved from the centre to the local govemments. Under this
policy the central government will retain the function of conservation and environment protection
policy while the function of tourism and environment protection is transferred to the Prefectures and
urban local governments. . However no structure has been provided for its implementation. For
example none of the secretaries will directly handle the environmental management portfolio.
Institutional roles and responsibilities
4.6    Various institutions have responsibilities for segments of the environment. The following
outline the mandate of the Ministries and Table 6 and Annex 1 give the key institutional actors for
environmental management in Rwanda and the main areas of focus.
Assessment of existing capacity for Environment Management and Monitoring
4.7    Although the GOR has made some important strides towards environmental protection
and sustainable natural resources management, the capacity for environmental management and
monitoring is still very weak and responsibilities are scattered among various Ministries and
Departments which requires a lot of co-ordination to achieve the desired effect. The following is
an overview of the strengths and weakens of the current environmental management structure and
implications for the future.
Strengths
4.8   There is political will as expressed by the establishment of the Directorate for
Environment in MINITERE and inclusion of the environmental issues in the Decentralisation
Policy and Strategy; strategies for sustainable environmental management under preparation
18



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmectal Assessment
including the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan; an the National Environment
Strategy.
Weaknesses
4.9   Several weakness were identified by the EA team. These are:
* there is no comprehensive environmental policy or legislation
* there are no national guidelines, regulations or standards for sound environmental
management or environmental assessment;
* staffing is inadequate both at the national and local level (e.g., the entire Directorate
of Environment has only a complement of 4 technical staff and only 4 of the 12
prefectures have environmental inspectors;
* poor remuneration of staff which greatly affects their working morale;
* environmental inspectors are very poorly facilitated in terms of resources and
technical information. Access is limited to a motorcycle but often there is no fuel, no
telephone or fax, etc.;
* apart from a few international non-organisations like CARE, German Agro Action,
WCS, there are very few local NGOs with a focus on environmental issues. The two
prominent ones, REASON and GEC, are poorly facilitated to be able to reach a wide
audience.
Implications
4.10   Given the aforementioned strengths and weaknesses, several opportunities arise which
need to be considered in the development and implementation of an effective environmental
mitigation plan for RSSP. These include:
- the need to facilitate the operations of the Directorate of Environment so as to enable
the Directorate to fulfil its mandate of monitoring and co-ordination of environment
issues of which the proposed mitigation plan is going to be crucial;
* given the multi-sectoral nature of the project, RSSP should strengthen collaboration
among the key natural resources management institutions in the country (i.e.,
MINITERE; MINERENA; MINAGRI, and MINICOM). The present co-ordination
arrangements should be strengthened and made more pro-active rather than being
responsive to problems and issues as they arise. There is also need to strengthen co-
ordination between technical research institutions, extension services and farmers; and
* a need to strengthen the enforcement of existing legislation with relevance to the
environment through the formulation and implementation of regulations, and
standards. These are discussed in detail in Chapter 9 conclusions and
recommendations.
19



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Table 6: Key Institutional Actors for Environment Management in Rwanda
Name of institution              Main area of focus                      Remarks
Directorate of Environment       Environment policy  formulation, EIA, Poorly staffed, no legal backing
standards,
Directorate of Lands             Lands rights                            Need to integrate environmental issues into the
revised land policy and law
Directorate of Forests           Management of natural forest estate, Limited  capacity  to  meet  the  seedling
reforestation and agro-forestry      requirements of Rwanda
Soil  and  Water  Conservation  Soil and water resources management      Need to integrate wetland issues more explicitly
Division                                                              into the soil and water conservation policy
Ministry   of  Public   Works,  Co-ordinates activities of the Division of Need for close collaboration with production
Transport and Communications     Meteorology                             sectors
Directorate of settlements       Resettlement                            Need to assess environmental impacts of the
resettlement policy  especially  on  fragile
ecosystems
Directorate of Water             National water policy                   Need to integrate wetland issues more explicitly
into the National Water Policy
Ministry of Local Governments    Decentralisation                        Decentralisation policy adopted. Need to assign
specific  responsibility  for   environmental
management at the local level
Ministry of Commerce, Industry  Management of Protected  Areas  and  MINICOM  should manage   wildlife outside
and Tourism                   wildlife conservation                      protected areas
UNDP                             Support to several projects for marshland  Potential collaborators
rehabilitation
National mapping
IFAD                             Support to several projects for marshland  Potential collaborators
rehabilitation
UNICEF                           Water   and   environment  sanitation  Supporting environmental awareness campaigns
programme                            in schools
Rwanda Environment Awareness  Awareness and sensitisation                Nationally based, no branches
Services  Organisation  Network
(REASON).
Green Environment Conservation  Improved cook stoves                     Nationally based, no branches
(GEC)
CARE                             Agro-forestry                           Formulating a new four year strategic plan
Protected area management
German Agro-Action               Agro-forestry                           Potential for collaboration
I Marshland rehabilitation
CRS                              Support for rehabilitation of marshlands  Potential for collaboration
Academnic and Research Institutions                               .
National University of Rwanda,  *  Research into soil fertility          Potential for collaboration
Butare                           *  Soil fertility studies
*  Land use studies
Kigali Institute of Science and  *  Development of alternative energy  Potential for collaboration
Technology KIST                      sources
Development of rainwater harvesting
technologies
ISAR                             *  Adaptive Research                    Potential for collaboration
._______________ _  *  Soil fertility  studies                .-
20



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
5. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES
5.1    As part of the methodology, the EA team considered three possible alternative scenarios.
These were: (i) no project situation; (ii) with project situation based on the Project Concept
Document of May 2000 and; (iii) a modified project scenario based on a catchment area approach
and incorporates changes to some of the proposed development schemes. These are described in
detail in the following sections.
A. No Project Scenario
5.2    Due to Rwanda's highly dissected topography, there is a very close relationship between
many of the country's hillsides and marshlands both of which are part of a wider catchment with
the forests serving as a catchment for water, a resource which is of vital importance to Rwanda.
However, most of the hillsides have been over farmed and the terraces, which used to serve as
erosion control are in a state of disrepair. As a result productivity in the hillsides has reduced
considerably
5.3    Wetlands play an important role in flood or overflow plains where they act as a buffer.
They reduce the maximal flow rates during the rainy season and maintain a relatively high flow
rate during the dry season. However, buffer role has been reduced due to the very fact of
cultivation.
5.4   The EA concluded that in the absence of the project, i.e. the status quo, the following can
be expected:
*  hillsides and marshlands will continue to be poorly farmed, deforested and overgrazed
resulting in accelerated soil erosion continuing to further the sedimentation of rivers,
lakes and the country's wetlands. This is turn will:
*  contribute to reduced water retention, increased risk of flooding and other economic
costs;
*  continued misuse of chemical amendments contributing to nutrient loading and
eutrophication;.
*  declining soil productivity will provide a disincentive to small farmers to stay on
agricultural lands and pressures will increase on adjacent lands and expansion into
new wetlands and other marginal lands;
*  downstream impacts associated with flooding will continue; and
*  minimal community participation in natural resource conservation
5.5   From the above analysis it is evident that a "no project scenario" is bound to be costly
both in economic and conservation terms. The EA team does not therefore recommend this
option.
21



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
B. With Project scenario
5.6    Based on the analysis of the proposed project as described in the PCD, the EA mission
identified a number of significant positive and adverse impacts. Positive impacts include:
* rehabilitation of the marshlands could lead to improved soil hydration, which in turn
could act as a buffer for maintaining the water table. The improved soil structure due
in part to the increase in organic matter will lead to increased production and
improved yields per unit area. This is expected to alleviate poverty and minimise
expansion into new wetlands and other fragile lands;
*  maintenance of a high water table combined with agro-forestry practices on the
hillsides could result in increased moisture through evapo-transpiration, thereby
improving the local microclimate.
*  rehabilitation of the marshlands could provide suitable habitats for water birds thereby
increasing biodiversity. In addition, improved agricultural practices are also expected
to enhance soil biodiversity.
*  promotion of an integrated approach to agriculture involving crop production,
livestock and aquaculture would, diversify production systems thereby diversifying
incomes and promote food security, and improved nutrition and health. The gain from
the improved agricultural production will reinforce the economy with increased
benefits in terms of incomes to the farmers, traders and the national at large; and
*  creation of employment for the economically active rural population would reduce the
rural-urban migration, reinforce the integration of the population in the countryside
and improve the overall quality of life.
5.7    Notwithstanding the positive benefits mentioned above, the EA team was concerned about
the potential adverse environmental impacts, and believes that excessive emphasis has been
placed on the rehabilitation of the marshlands with little attention paid to the hillsides (these are
described in greater detail in Chapter 6 below). There is also no guarantee that people will be
attracted to rehabilitated hillside, since the priority crops selected by the GOR (rice, maize and
beans) are more suited for the wetlands.
5.8    The team therefore recommends a modified project scenario in which the marshlands and
hillsides will be elements of a more comprehensive strategy for sustainably managing the
ecosystem, widening the scope of production opportunities and reducing the level of human
impact on fragile ecosystems.
.C. Modified Project Scenario
5.9    Notwithstanding the positive benefits mentioned above, the EA team believes that some of
the adverse environmental impacts such as infilling of wetlands are difficult to mitigate against.
Indeed many of the wetlands have been irreversibly modified to the extent that they can no longer
be considered as wetlands.
5.10   The EA team considers that the project in its present form does not guarantee sound
environment management as stipulated in the World Bank Safeguard policies operational
' idelines, (OP 4.01). Given the project's potential adverse impacts and the environmental issues
22



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
discussed above, the EA proposes a modified project design, based on an integrated watershed
approach which attempts to reflect the significance of environmental services provided by the
hillsides and the wetlands. This option is discussed in detail in Chapter 10 -conclusions and
recommendations and in Annex 1.
23



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
6. THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
6.1   The assessment of the potential impacts is based on the information contained in the
World Bank Project Concept Document of May 2000, observations made during field visits
potential sites, priority list provided by MINAGRI and discussions with the relevant stakeholders
from line ministries, NGOs, the private sector, local authorities and representatives of local
communities. The potential social impacts of RSSP were analysed by another team member and
results found in separate report and are not discussed in detail in this report.
Scope of the Analysis
6.2    The mission analysed the proposed rehabilitation of the marshlands in detail. The EA
team visited 8 potential marshland sites, which are described in Table 3. Attention was also paid
to the other components, which are likely to impact on the environment. However, since these
have yet to be defined in terms of their design details and specific sites yet to be selected at the
time, the assessment looked at the overall project strategy rather than identifying site-specific
impacts. The analysis is divided into environmental impact identification and mitigation measures
related to construction and operation. A set of criteria for assessing environmental impacts of
individual sites is given in Chapter 9 and Annex 2 to this report.
Description of the pilot area selected for analysis
6.3    Although eight sites were visited, the EA team considered Kajevuba marshland in detail
Location
6.4    Kajevuba marshland is located in Gikomero commune in the Prefecture of Kigali-Rural
with a surface area of 100 ha. The marshland derives its name from a small river, which is
composed of a central canal and links with the sectors of Gishaka and Rutunga and joins the
sectors of Shango and Gasabo downstream. The area was previously a natural wetland covered in
papyrus. Management started in 1968 with 600 parcels of land distributed to the communities. The
waters of Kajevuba River empty into River Nyabugogo. 85 ha of the marshland were cultivated by 45
farmers associations under project UNDPIFAO/RWA/96/025.
Flora
6.5    Dominant vegetation is the sedge Cyperus latifolius and Polygonum  strigosum
Potamogeton sp, Nymphea nouchallii and Euphobia tilucali. The cultivated part has been
converted to beans, sweet peppers, and sweet potatoes.
24



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Fauna
6.6    The marshland is rich in animal life. The area upstream  of the reservoir provides
favourable conditions for water birds including migratory species such as Ardeola idea and
Circus macrouus. The following have been recorded in Kajevuba and were seen during the visit
of the EA team; Pied Kingfishers, Sacred Ibis, Grey crowned cranes, Hamnmerkop, Black winged
stilts, Squacco heron, Hadada Ibis.
Crops
6.7    The main crops grown in Kajevuba marshland are beans, tomatoes, green pepper, onions
and sweet potatoes. Sorghum, cassava, bananas and sweet potatoes are grown in the area
surrounding the marshland. On the shores on the left, is occupied by private wood lots of
Eucalyptus.
Likely Project Activities
6.8    The nature and magnitude of the impacts will depend on the type activity proposed and its
location. The PCD proposes to support five sets of activities among which the community will
have to choose. These include (i) rehabilitation and development of degraded marshlands and
hillsides, (ii) promotion of agricultural exports, (iii) support to agricultural services delivery
systems, (iv) small scale rural infrastructure, and (v) promotion of off-farm production activities
in rural areas. Of the five components, only the rehabilitation of the marshlands has been
described with an indication of about 5,000 ha of marshlands to be rehabilitated. However no
specific sites had been selected by the time of the EA mission in June 2000.
Typology of Developments
6.9    Within the framework of the RSSP, five (5) development types are proposed. In all cases,
the main focus will be water balance and maintenance using supplementary irrigation and
drainage systems. Details of these typologies are described in the report by the consultant on
irrigation engineer.
Type 1 - Traditional system: this typology involves traditional exploitation marshlands by
the population without any external intervention. The predominant crops being bananas, little inputs
expected. This is more-or-less flood recession agriculture whereby farmers are capable of exploiting
the marshlands for agriculture during the dry season and abandon the fields during the high floods.
Type 2- Amelioration: consist in rehabilitation or consolidation of old developed perimeters
to allow for improved management and distribution of water for irrigation. The rehabilitation works
include recalibration of canals and drains, riverbed tracing, construction of additional works.
Type 3- Refection this involves repair or recovery of irrigation works and damage from
insufficient infrastructure. This typology does not involve equipping with new systems
Type 4 - Rehabilitation: consists of repairs of entire works including construction of a dam
for storage water necessary for off-season irrigation. The system will be supplemented by an irrigation
and drainage network with the associated works. This also involves plot levelling.
25



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Type 5 - Modernisation: high level sophistication proposed with a permanent water
reservoir, land levelling, irrigation and drainage works.
6.10   The unit cost for each of the five typologies vary with the traditional system costing the
least and modernisation costing the highest. Table 7 gives an assessment of the proposed five
typologies,' based on the minimum number of crops for an effective return on investment and
level of inputs.
'Refer to report by Abdelmoula Dachraoui of June 2000.
26



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Table 7: Assessment of the five development typologies
Typology,           Main features           Number of Level of  Likely    Remarks
seasons2     inputs   impacts
Traditional         no extemal interventions   I         L         L         Subsistence farming,
no  improvements  in                                    with  low  or no
infrastructure                                          chemical
Amelioration        Improvement             1-2          M         L-M       Chemical
Complementary works                                     amendments    for
Management of lateral                                   second crop
canals
Refection           Repair   of   existing  2            M-H       M         Effect of repairs
drainage works                                          Chemical
no new systems in place                                 amendments
Rehabilitation      repair of entire works  2-3          M-H      M-H        Effect of repairs
Chemical
amendment
Modemisation        high     level      of  3            H         H         Levelling land
sophistication                                          Chemical inputs for
pernanent water reservoir                               second and third crop
Key: L- Low; M- Medium; H- High
Farm models
6.11    Several farm  models were proposed by the mission's agronomist based on the crop
requirements and the most effective return on investment as outlined in Table 8.
Table 8: Farm models proposed by the Agronomist
Model                      Total area (ha)                Dominant crops                  Likely
Environment
_____________________im pacts
Hillside    Marshland   Hillsides               Marshland
1. traditional system   0.50        0.02         Sorghum                 Sweet         Low
Potatoes
2. simple drainage       0.50       0.15         Climbing beans          Soya beans  Low
and maize
3. irrigation gravity with  0.50    0.15         Climbing beans          Rice    and  Medium
rice                                                                     beans
4. gravity irrigation two  0.50     0.15         Climbing beans          Rice      (2  High
seasons of rice                                  Sesbania3, Leucaena   seasons)
5. Drainage with         0.50       0,15         Climbing beans,         Green         High
pumping                                          Sesbania                pepper,
maize and
tomatoes
Itypology refers to the production system
2 this refers to the minimum number of crops per year for effective return on investment
3 Sesbania and Leucaena are multipurpose agro-forestry trees which also serve as fodder for livestock and the
sticks can be used to support climbing beans.
27



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Probable Negative Environmental Impacts
6.12   Proposed project activities are targeting two fragile ecosystems, the marshlands and the
hillsides, which are characterised by steep slopes. Since the hydrologic characteristics of rainfall,
soil vocation, catchment area characteristics and valley morphology are highly variable, the
impacts will likewise be spatially variable across the hillsides and the valleys. Project activities
that could impact on the environment include:
*  Repair and construction of irrigation drainage and diversion structures as well as soil
and water conservation structures;
e  Levelling of individual plots;
*  Rehabilitation and grading of feeder roads and provision of road drainage structures
and new connector roads.
6.13   The consequences of the project's activities on the environment are two-fold. At the
physical level, there will be tremendous change due to further loss of vegetation cover and forage
already in advanced stages of degradation due to current human interventions. Also the induced
population pressure around rehabilitated roads and improved agricultural infrastructure will likely
accelerate the degradation of the soil and water and, cause uncontrolled felling of trees for fuel
wood.
Impacts related to construction works
6.14   Potential negative impacts related to construction works include changes in: hydrology,
water quality, habitat and the surrounding ecology, availability and use of traditional materials
and disruption of settlement patterns, vegetation and its resulting impact on soils. Table 9 shows
some of the principal impacts related to construction works.
Habitat modification
6.15   The existing vegetation cover plays an important role in reducing soil erosion on hillsides
and valleys. The rehabilitation of rural roads and the repair of terraces which traverse the hillsides
will involve stripping of vegetation in the construction area which will have varying impacts on
the vegetation protection especially on the steep slopes. This will inevitably give rise to an
increased risk of soil erosion and river sedimentation. While this may be seen as a short-term
impact, it could have far reaching consequences downstream.
Changes in water quality
6.16   Opening of new roads and rehabilitation of existing ones could lead to increased siltation
of the rivers and streams. Increased sediment in water reduces the penetration of light and hence
the primary productivity and too much sediment can also cause problems for aquatic organisms
such as fish and other aquatic biodiversity.
28



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
6.17   Furthermore, The misuse of chemical amendments particularly phosphates and nitrates, in
crop production, has the potential for causing eutrophication of the soil and water by nutrients in
the drainage water. In areas where applied fertilisers dissolve in rainfall runoff, plants and
organisms in the downstream water bodies may proliferate. There will be need for regular
monitoring of the total nitrogen and phosphorous contents of the drainage water.
Socio-economic impacts
6.18   Conversion of marshlands often denies access to ex-wetland resource users especially
when it is done for large scale agricultural and milk production. This will in turn result in lead to
increased pressure on the remaining natural patches of wetlands.
Flooding on site and downstream
6.19   The removal of vegetation due to construction works will increase the movement of water
downstream resulting in flooding with varying consequences on crops, livestock and settlements.
This was reported at Kajevuba and Chilli rice schemes where both sites have experienced an
increase in on site and downstream flooding respectively. The farmers at Chilli were even
proposing removing all the remaining papyrus patches in order to allow for the fast flow of water.
Changes in settlement and land use patterns
6.20   Rehabilitation of roads and construction of new roads has the potential of inducing high
population growth and the tendency to settle near roads and upcoming trading centres.
Modification of wetlands also can contribute to increased pressure on adjacent wetlands for their
resources which could lead to conflicts as the so-called 'aliens enter the wetlands 'owned' by
others. Evidence of this was seen at Kajevuba, and Mutashoma where farmers who are not part of
the project sites have started similar activities in areas adjacent to these sites.
6.21   Finally, water flowing through some wetlands is 'fertilised'. This process ensures the
functioning of other ecosystems downstream. If their nutrient-retention capacity is reduced, then
these wetlands are no longer able to fully perform this function. Similarly, the water-treatment
function of wetlands, which remove and/or transform harmful elements (e.g. pollutants), can be
damaged.
Impacting on soil conditions
6.22   The removal of vegetation and exposure of soils increases the potential for wind induced
soil erosion of dry soils, more dust in the atmosphere. Drying out of wetland soils leads to
oxidation of the organic matter, land subsidence and an increased risk of future re-flooding. This
was reported in Kajevuba where flooding has continued to happen despite the rehabilitation of
drainage canals. Oxidation can also lead to the development of acidic soils from sulphate
conversions to sulphuric acid. Such soils have limnited agricultural productivity.
29



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Further conversion and modification of wetlands and increased pressure on natural
resources
6.23   During the field visits to Kajevuba and Bishenyi marshlands, the farmers informed the EA
team that some of the people who do not belong to the existing Farmers Associations have formed
their own associations to exploit the edges of the developed marshlands since they feel that they
were left out of the irrigation scheme. Details of this phenomenon are discussed in the Social
Assessment report.
30



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Table 9 - Impacts related to construction works
Project Activity'     Potential      negative          Location o impacts
impact                       On-site            Off-site
*  Rehabilitation  of Disruption of hydrology   Flooding          Flooding
canals                                     Lowering of water  downstream
tables
*  Rehabilitation  of Changes in water quality  Siltation         Eutrophication
hillsides
Habitat modification    *  Loss of flora  Disruption      of
*  Repair  of  infra                              and fauna       migratory  routes
structure                                  *  Loss of grazing  for water birds
lands
Changes in ecology      *  Loss  of  soil Disruption      of
biodiversity   migratory  routes
._______________________   for  water  birds
Loss  of  access  to  Loss  of  cultural Loss of
traditional materials   values             employment for
Loss of            craft traders
Settlement patterns     Displacement       Encroachment on
Encroachment  of  fragile areas
I fragile area      Land disputes
Impacts related to Project Operation
6.24   Potential negative impacts related to project operation include changes in surface water
quality, changes in ground water level and quantity, unguided conversion and modification of
wetlands, environmental health degradation and reduced interest in upland crops. Table 10 shows
some of the principal impacts, which could result from operationalising, the project.
Environmental health degradation
6.25   Malaria is one of the major waterborne health problems in Rwanda2. Other health risks,
which are primarily associated with water-borne diseases, which include Bilharzia, skin diseases,
intestinal worms and diarrhoea that are exacerbated by modification of rivers and wetlands and
increased contact between people and the water environments. Prolonged flooding associated with
the cultivation of paddy rice could increase mosquito populations and incidences of malaria.
Disease incidence will become more prevalent as people continue contact with and drink water
from surface water sources.
Increase in vertebrate pests
6.26   Increase in vertebrate pests such as weaverbirds and rodent populations as predatory birds
such as herons are forced to leave the area due to expansion of the area under rice production.
Weavers are also associated with rice monocultures and are bound to increase with the expansion
'Apart from the 5,000 ha of marais mentioned in the PCD, there is no information on the scale of operation of
the other activities.
2 According to the Socio-demographic survey of 1996 and personal communication from the Secretary General
of MINISANTE
31



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
of the rice fields. Whilst this may be seen as positive aspect related to an increase in biodiversity,
the presence of these pests has an indirect social impact.
6.27   The other likely impact of rice growing will be the abandonment of school by children of
school going age'. This could have a long-term effect of increase the rate of illiteracy in the
project area. There is also the issue of employing child labour, which has a social dimension. It is
proposed to introduce alternative methods of scaring birds in order to enable the young children to
attend school.2
Loss of grazing lands
6.28   The expansion of land under arable agriculture could lead to a reduction of traditional
grazing lands as livestock is seen to interfere with crops and the banks of canals. This has a
negative consequence of reducing animal proteins and fats in form of milk and meat, which are
essential health requirements. The other issue related to nutrient recycling through the livestock
dung, a source of essential organic manure for the farms. The expansion of agricultural activities
will reduce the time spent on these land by grazing cattle. This was observed in all the eight sites
visited by the EA team.
6.29   This will require defining a proper mix between livestock and crop growing. Zero grazing
schemes are proposed in light of reduced land holdings and the time needed to graze large herds
of cattle. The other issue relates to blocking of access to grazing area because of the fear that
cattle would destroy the canal banks.
Loss of traditional materials for thatching and crafts
6.30   Rwanda is predominantly a peasant economy where the local communities depend on
materials from wetlands and uplands for thatching and making of craft. This is also of cultural
significance because the school children are taught some of the craft making skills. The EA tearn
witnessed the harvesting of these materials by school children at Kajevuba. Farmers in other sites
reported the scarcity of thatching and craft materials, which they attributed to the modification of
marshlands.
Impact on soil conditions
6.31   Given that the marshlands are gently sloped (2-5%) and have a cover of clay and peat in
some areas, irrigation could lead to nutrient leaching and further land degradation. Irrigation
activities will also result in oxidation of acid sulphate soils. The impact relates to soil salinisation.
Under normal conditions, the salts left by irrigation water can be leached if excess irrigation is
practised -i.e. the volume of water supplied to the systems exceeds the volume needed to meet the
water needs of plants and losses due to evaporation. Salinisation can also be caused by poor
drainage when floodplain is unable to discharge excess water during high floods. The soil
degradation resulting from water logging and salinisation lead to lowered agricultural yields and a
decrease in agricultural area, since salt residues are damaging to crops. Drainage water with a
'During the EA mission several children of school going age were seen scaring birds.
2 It was reported that a 'professional' adult had been appointed and paid by the farmers to scare birds at Cyili
Rice Scheme.
32



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
high salt content also increases the salinity of ground and downstream river water. This can have
detrimental consequences for downstream irrigated agriculture, water fowl and fish populations
and public health.
Land tenure
6.32   Whereas the current law clearly states that all lowlands belong to the State, there is a risk
that redistribution of land to meet the irrigation requirements as well as return on investment,
which may necessitate consolidating land. This could result in social tension and conflict. A case
in point was reported at Kajevuba where it was reported that some of the farmers opened up areas
outside the managed scheme because they felt that they were left out of the scheme.
Loss of biodiversity
6.33   Although the rehabilitation of the marshlands could improve the habitats for water birds,
experience for other rice schemes in Uganda and Kenya shows that these birds are considered as
pests and deliberate efforts (including use of agro-chemicals) are made to curtail their numbers.
Soil biodiversity particularly soil micro-organisms, is also likely to be affected through use of
agro-chemicals and the associated problems of eutrophication and acidification.
33



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Table 10 - Impacts related to Project Operation
Project Activity1             Potential negative impact              Location of impacts
On-site              Off-site
Rehabilitation of drainage and  Destruction of vegetation  *  Reduced   water  Changes  in  peak
transfer canals                                              storage capacity      flows
*  Reduced nutrient
retention
Rehabilitation of hillsides   Impacting on soil conditions  Erosion             Siltation
Repair of infra structure     Habitat conversion          Loss     of      soil
biodiversity
Land tenure disputes       Changes  in  income  Changes in income
distribution          distribution
Conflicts
Changes in ecology                                Disruption      of
migratory routes for
water birds
Flooding for rice growing     Environmental health       Increased     disease  Increased    disease
degradation                incidences            incidences
Rehabilitation of marshlands  Inaccessibility  to   water  Changes  in  income  Changes in income
resources                  distribution          distribution
Conflicts
NB: Apart from the 5000 ha of marshland mentioned in the PCD, there is no information on the
scale of operations of the other activities.
Probable impacts from other project components
6.34   Although the PCD proposes to support other components, these are not described in detail
either in terms of their location or extent. These include rural roads, bridges, support to off-farm
production activities and improvement of transport infrastructure. Table 11 shows some of the
potential impacts, which could result from implementing these activities. The team proposes that
these be clarified at the appraisal process . Once defined, these intervention should be subject to
the screening measures proposed in Chapter 9.
lApart from the 5,000 ha of marshlands mentioned in the PCD, there is no information on the scale of operation
of the other activities.
34



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Table 11 - Probable impacts likely to result from other project components
Project Activity'                 Potential negative impact                   Location < impacts
On-site                 Off-site
Rehabilitation of rural roads     Destruction of vegetation      Reduced water storage  Changes  in   peak
capacity                    flows
repair of small bridges           Impacting on soil conditions   Erosion                   Siltation
Off-farm activities               Habitat conversion             Loss       of      soil  Loss of biodiversity
biodiversity
Land tenure disputes           Changes  in  income  Changes in  income
distribution             distribution
.____________________________                          C onflicts
Transport infrastructure          Impacting on soil conditions   Soil erosion              Siltation
Post harvest infrastructure       Habitat conversion
Air and water pollution from
milling machines
Apart from the 5,000 ha of marshlands mentioned in the PCD, there is no information on the scale of operation
of the other activities.
35



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
7. MITIGATION MEASURES
7.1   The measures that follow  are recommended to mitigate the potential adverse
environmental impacts of the investments as proposed in the PCD of May 2000. During the
review of the proposed project and based on available information and the impacts of previous
developments, the EA team came to a conclusion that a catchment approach, which considers
hillsides and marshlands as only one of the basic elements of a more comprehensive strategy
would be the most effective way of achieving long term sustainability (see Chapter 10 -
Conclusions and Recommendations). Table 12 summarises the potential environmental impact,
proposed mitigation measures and indicative costs where appropriate.
7.2    Given the fact that there are numerous variables relating to the unresolved issues in terms
of specific sites and activities, the costs of the mitigation measures are only tentatively estimated.
An indicative budget for the proposed measures is given Table 12. It is proposed that the costs of
the mitigation measures be more accurately determined during the development of the PIP.
Infrastructure development
7.3    All new and rehabilitated roads should be subject to a site-specific environmental review
prior to construction. In case RSSP supports new roads, these would require a more detailed
analysis, including an environmental assessment of different route options with particular
attention to topography, drainage, ecology and landscape.
Improving Environmental Health
7.4   The aspects relating to the pest management should be considered in collaboration with
the Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Component, which proposes the establishment of Farmers
Field Schools to strengthen extension.
7.5   In order to reduce the impact of residues of agro-chemicals on the environment and on
health the following measures should be considered: development of resistant varieties, rotation of
crops, appropriate cultural practices, good water management and hand weeding should be
practised to reduce the need for agro-chemicals. Farm research should concentrate on the
development of integrated farming systems that minimise use of agro-chemicals. Application of
agro-chemical should only be done as a last resort and after a competent staff has confirmed the
necessity.
7.5       The aspects relating to the pest management should be considered in collaboration with
the Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Component, which proposes the establishment of Farmers
Field Schools to strengthen extension.
Ensure proper application and prevent misuse
7.6    All agro-chemicals are potentially dangerous to human heath and the environment if not
handled according to accompanying safeguards. Farmers in Rwanda are largely ignorant of the
risks associated with improper use of agro-chemicals. In several cases, they consider the use of
36



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
agro-chemicals as one of the essential stages in crop production. It is therefore recommended that
handling of agrochemicals and their application should be allowed only for certified farmers that
have had sufficient training in handling and application.
7.7   It is further recommended to create Crop Protection Agents within farmers associations
who should receive further training in handling of agrochemicals and safety precautions. After
completion of the course, they should be provided with credit to purchase equipment and
protective clothing.
Enforcement of existing legislation:
7.8    Currently, detailed regulations regarding use of agro-chemicals in Rwanda are being
developed. The PCMU should keep abreast with existing and new regulations developed by
MINAGRI so that they can act accordingly.
Prevention of damage from construction activities
7.9    This will involve the development of environmental standards and an environmental code
of conduct to be followed by the contractors and sub contractors. Given the inadequate capacity
(see Chapter 4), the project should support the relevant institutions in the development of these
standards. An international environment expert together with a national environment specialist
proposed in section 8.9 and Chapter 9 below, could assist in this respect.
Stimulation of upland production
7.10   Several mechanisms are proposed to stimulate farmers' interest in their upland production
of other crops: these include reduction in individual plot size; encouraging farmers to co-operate
in field work to increase efficiency; co-ordination of the rice crop calendar with the demands of
other crops, extension programmes covering both wetland and dryland crops; and extension of
credit facilities to cover dry land inputs.
Monitoring of nutrients in drainage water for agro-chenical residues
7.10       In order to determine the nutrient loads from the project, there should be regular (at
intervals to be determined) recording of the major nutrients sources such nitrogen and phosphorous.
Also the water volumes discharged and the amounts of fertilisers should be recorded.
7.11   It is recognised that capacity for this activity is still limited in Rwanda and the EA team
therefore recommends that the project support the development of such capacity since long term
monitoring programme is crucial in environmental management. The results of the nutrient
monitoring programme will be used to estimate the amount of nutrients lost from the project area
and design mechanisms to increase efficiency.
7.12   For accuracy such tests will need to carried out by specialised laboratories at the ISAR,
and UNR.
37



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
7.13   An annual report will be made to MINAGRI with copies to the Directorate of
Environment.
Management of water related diseases
7.14   The incidence of water related/borne disease is likely to increase with the increased
contact of farmers with the water environment. In order to address these problems the following
measures are proposed:
-    Improvement of health facilities: establishment of aid posts in each of the villages
adjacent to selected sites to provide first aid and primary health care services. There is
also need to rehabilitate or establish dispensaries in each of the communes to provide
for treatment of more complex diseases or situations which surpass the level of first aid.
These aid posts should also be equipped to be able to screen farmers for common water
related diseases' such as malaria and bilharzia. The cost of improving these health will
have to be determined by MINSANTE.
-    Investigate the use of biological control agents such as fish to reduce mosquitoes
and snails:-The use of biological indicators for the control of vectors and pests has been
tried in other environments and has been successfully tried for the control of aquatic
weeds such as water hyacinth in Latin America, Benin, Sudan and Uganda. Biological
methods are considered to be more environmental friendly ways of controlling pests. It
is proposed that the National University of Rwanda and the vector control division of
the MINISANTE initiate research work to investigate use of biological control agent.
Contact should also be made with international biological control organisations in the
lUK and Australia to seek technical assistance.
7.15 The Chief Government Chemist2 in collaboration with MINERENA should carry out
regular sampling and analysis of water and soil samples for residues of chemicals used. Based on
the results, the sampling intensity and the sampling area should be adjusted accordingly. 150 tests
per year at $6.5 per test for four years.
7.16 MINERENA and Directorate of Environment (MINITERE) should be informed of the
results and should set discharge standards [follow WHO standards for water quality].
Re-afforestation and agro-forestry progranmme
7.17   In order to ensure future supplies of wood products and fodder for livestock, the project
should stimulate the establishment of tree plantations on the farmers dryland plots. In addition the
farners should be encouraged through incentives to practice agro-forestry in rehabilitated
wetlands which can serve the following purposes: wind breaks, soil nutrient enrichment using
nitrogen fixing plants, provision of fodder for livestock which will in turn provide organic manure
for improving soil fertility in environmentally friendly way.
7.18   Information should be provided on raising of seedlings and management of nurseries and
transplanting. The project should, in co-operation with the Forest Department, assist the farmers
l Based on the Socio-demographic survey of 1996, published in July 1998.
2 Or a similar institution. If this does not exist, the activity should be contracted out to private practitioners.
38



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
to raise tree nurseries. This should be supplemented by provision of tree seedlings by the Forest
Department and NGOs. The ISARJUNR agro-forestry stations at Butare could be used a model for
adoption by local communities.
7.19   The project will provide facilities to transport the seedlings to the project sites where they
can be distributed during the regular farmers meetings. Through the project's extension and
training services the farmers can be stimulated to participate in tree planting activities.
7.20  It should be emphasised that tree planting and aftercare require very little time and effort
if integrated in the farm activities. The bottleneck is likely to be the timely availability of
seedlings. In this respect the project can provide very valuable assistance by investing in tree
nurseries and promotion could be carried out by the Farmers Field Schools. The effectiveness of
the agro-forestry activities will be evaluated by farm inspectors as part of the agro-economic
surveys.
Biodiversity Study and Monitoring Programme
7.21   The presence and diversity of birds and other organisms such as insects and earthworms
are good indicators of the health of the environment. Their absence would normally indicate that
the ecosystem had been altered significantly. Changes in the environment will be reflected in the
changes in numbers and variety of birds and other wild organisms.
7.22   With some noteworthy exceptions, birds are generally very useful in rice fields for the
control of harmful insects, disease vectors, rodents, etc. some species could well be harvested to
supplement the farmer's protein requirements which are affected by the reduction in the livestock.
It is recommended to carry out an annual bird inventory in the project area to assess changes in
the bird fauna and to monitor changes in populations of both harmful and useful species. It is also
recommended to involve the master students with supervision provided by the science faculty of
the UNR Butare.
7.23   Approximately six months of fieldwork equally distributed over the dry and wet season
would be needed. Once per year the supervisor should work in the field with the students for two
weeks. Annual progress reports should be prepared with copies to the Directorate of Environment and
MINAGRI.
Environmental sensitisation and training programme
7.24   Given the level of training and awareness of environmental issues among the technical
and farmers associations and farmers, there is need for an intensive sensitisation and training
programme. Project staff should also be encouraged to participate in environmental training and
awareness programmes, workshops and seminars whenever opportunities arise both inside and
outside Rwanda.
7.25   The project should support the production of awareness materials such as booklets,
posters, stickers etc to sensitise government officials, farmers and the general public on the
importance of the environment. Specifically the EA team proposes the production of an
Environment Management Handbook in the three languages (English, French and Kinyarwanda)
39



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
to be used by technical staff and farmers in their monitoring activities. The production of these
handbooks could be contracted to competent NGOs and academic institutions such UNR and
Kigali Institute of Science and Technology.
7.26  In order to encourage active community participation, the PCMU should organise annual
environment management competitions for the best farm practice, sustainable and sound
environment management practices. Apart from certificates of merit, the winners of such
competitions could be provided with an opportunity to undertake study tours to broaden their
knowledge and skill in environmental management. The costs of these activities should be
incorporated in the PIP.
40



RWANDA: Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment Report
Table 12 - List of Potential Environmental Impacts and Proposed Mitigation measures
Project construction impacts
Potential negative impacts                 Mitigation measure'              Responsibility2    Timing      Cost
(us$)
Disruption of hydrology, water quality     Strict supervision               MINITERE           On going   NC'
MINERENA
Guidelines for contractors       MINALOC            6 months   PCs
CONTRACTORS
Environmental code of conduct and  MINITERE        6 months   PC
adoption of good site practices
Soil - acidification, reduction in organic matter  Increased efficiency of irrigation  MINAGRI  On going   NC
and shrinkage                              Proper watershed management
Use of green manure
Use organic manure
Loss of biodiversity                       Create buffer zones              MINAGRI            On going   NC
Diversify crops                  MINAGRI           On going   PC
ISAR                               6
Biodiversity       Conservation  MINITERE          2 Years    25,200
Programme                        UNR
Agro-forestry                    MINAGRI           On going   PC
ISAR
Changes in surface water quality           Regular monitoring of nitrogen and  MINERENA        On going   PC
phosphorous  contents  of  the
drainage water
Destruction of vegetation                  Strict    supervision    during  MINAGRI            On going   NC
construction work
Replanting  of  vegetation  after  CONTRACTORS   On going   PC
construction
Limit use of fire                CDC               On going   NC
Siltation                                  Establish   buffer  zones   with  MINAGRI           Year I
vegetation to filter sediments
Plants tree and grasses on hillsides   CDC         On going   PC
Operational Impact
Health risks and increased incidences of water-  Use of biological control agents  MINISANTE   On going   PC
related diseases                           such as fish to reduce mosquito  UNR
larvae and snails                MINAGRI
Improve  health  facilities  for  MINSANTE         On going   TBDW
communities
Changes in ground water level and quantity  Regular monitoring of the water  MINERENA          On going   PC
table                            MINAGRI
Avoid pumping water              MINAGRI            On going   NC
Control speed of water           MINERENA
Key: NC- No cost, PC- Project cost, TBD1 To be determAined
' The implementation period will de determined after the schedule of activities has been finalised.
2 For the full titles of institutions refer to the list of acronyms
3 Costs are indicative and will have to be discussed and agreed with the GOR
4No cost refers to routine project activities to be financed from the general budget
5 At least 6 person months of consultancy to develop the guidelines
6 2 MSc students fees, and research materials as well as supervision costs
7To be included in the contract sum for the Contractors
a Activity of the Management Plan
9 Part of the MINISANTE on going health support programmes. Project to support the health Insurance scheme
41



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Potential negative impacts                  Mitigation measurel                Responsibility2    Timing      Cost
Unguided  conversion  and  modification  of  Provide clear guidelines for wetland   MINAGRI       12 months  PC
wetlands                                    management                         MINITERE
Educate farmers on sustainable use  NGOs              I year
of wetlands
Bye-laws  for  controlling  land  CDC                Year I      PC
developments
Mismanagement of hillsides                  Rehabilitate  uplands  areas  to  FARMERS             On going   PC
improve soil fertility and water  ASSOCIATIONS
retention
Rehabilitate terraces             MINAGRI            On going   PC
Enforce   terrace    management  FARMERS
regulations                       ASSOCIATIONS
CDC                              3
Strengthen extension services     MINAGRI            Year I      PC
Proper maintenance of water canals   FARMERS         On going   PC
ASSOCIATIONS
Increase in vertebrate pests                Bird scaring                       FARMERS            On going   PC
ASSOCIATIONS
Selection of varieties which are less  ISAR          Year 1 -2   PC
vulnerable to bird damage
Develop new scaring techniques    UNR, ISAR, FA    On going   PC
Research  into  usefulness   of  UNR                 On going    PC
biological control of vertebrate  ISAR
pests
Flooding on site and downstream             Establish buffer zones on canals at  MINAGRI          On going   PC
regular intervals to hold excess  CONTRACTOR
waters
Agroforesty on the hillsides      MINAGRI, NGO    On going    PC
Reduction of atmospheric moisture leading  Afforestation                       MINAGRI            On going    PC
increased ambient temperatures                                                 NGOs
Reduced soil fertility in wetlands and hillsides    Use of organic manure integrated  FA, MINAGRI  On going    PC
with mineral fertilisers
Agro-forestry, especially nitrogen  ISAR             On going   PC
fixing plants                     MINAGRI
Reduction in fish diversity and abundance   Integrate fish farming in canals and  MINAGRI         On going   PC
dams                              UNR               I
Loss of grazing lands                       Zero grazing                       FARMERS            On going   PC
Buffer zones                      ASSOCIATIONS
Raise pasture along canals                          _
Loss of access to traditional materials for crafts   Buffer zones              MINAGRI            On going   PC
Total loss of wetland products, services and  Detailed inventories             MINAGRI            On going    PC
attributes                                  Zoning    and    protection    of  MINITERE
ecologically critical habitats    UNR
'Activity of the Management Plan
2 NGOs to prepare sub-project proposals
3 Part of the EA training and also includes provision of office and field equipment
42



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
8. MONITORING
8.1    During project implementation, monitoring will be very crucial to ensure that the
proposed mitigation measures are brought to bear. It is particularly important to involve the
communities in the monitoring of the environmental impacts since they will be closely involved in
the project on a day to day basis.
8.2   Indicators for monitoring changes in the physical, biological and socio-economic
environments should be developed during the preparation of the PIP and the monitoring
component fully elaborated.
8.3    Existing studies' should be used to establish the needed baseline for monitoring.
Additional ecological studies will be required to fill key gaps in the existing information and data,
which has a strong bias towards assessing marshlands for agriculture. The following studies are
recommended:
(i)   Vegetation studies to establish a baseline on key vegetation types and human use
and requirements for the conservation and provide a list of sensitive plants that
require special protection;
(ii)  Ecological surveys to determine the extent to which different activities could
impact on the ecosystems and identify ecologically sensitive areas, which should
be excluded from project activities. These studies will also identify economically
viable alternative uses and activities.
Estimated costs of these measures are given in Annex 3.
Monitoring the Physico-Chemical Environment
8.4    The monitoring programme for the physical environment should cover inter alia:
(i)   Land use outside the project area to determine changes in land use patterns
resulting from implementation of project activities. This could be done annually
using the baseline maps prepared during the resource survey at the beginning of
the project;
(ii)  Soil erosion - qualitative observations of soil erosion occurring in clearing
areas should be recording signs of sheet and gully erosion especially after
heavy rains. Results should be reported to the PCMU; and
(iii) Changes in water quantity and quantity including flow levels and nutrient levels
These include Inventaires des Marais. Conclusions et Recommendations du Project (AG:DP/RWA/89/006.
Rapport terminal
43



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Monitoring the Biological Environment
8.5    The monitoring programme for the biological environment should be carried out through a
Masters of Science Programme at National University of Rwanda in collaboration with the
Directorate of Environment and MINAGRI and cover, inter alia:
(i)   Extent of vegetation degradation in the hillsides and marshlands.  A
quantitative assessment of vegetation damage could be made by establishing
baseline transects. The monitoring of such transects to monitored by the field
extension staff.
(ii)  Status of rare and endangered species as well as water dependent species.
Qualitative assessments should be made of known individuals/family units of
birds and small mammals.
(iii) The status of food chains and webs- the browsers/grazers, predators/prey,
hosts/parasite relationships. This be done by the staff and students from
University of Rwanda or Kigali institute of Science and Technology as part of
the Biodiversity Monitoring Programme
Monitoring the Socio Economic Environment1
8.6    The monitoring programme for the socio-economic environment would include, inter alia:
(i)  community participation in project activities including decision making with
regard to conservation and rural development initiatives;
(ii)  the effect of road construction on population movements in the immediate
project area and on the catchment in general including land use, land prices,
etc.;
(iii) community perceptions of operational effectiveness of the mitigation measures;
and
(iv)  farm productivity including changes in cropping patterns, and land use in the
project areas and the comnmunities adjacent to the project areas.
(v)  Effectiveness of Farmers Associations and their ability to co-ordinate increased
project activities and resolve conflicts arising from allocation of land parcels.
Supervision
8.7    The Project Co-ordination and Management Unit will be responsible for the overall
implementation of the mitigation, monitoring and management plan outlined above, under the
supervision of the National Project Co-ordination/Steering Committee. Box 1 gives the format to
be followed in monitoring and reporting project activities.
This is discussed in detail in the Socio Impact Assessment Report.
44



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Box 1:    Proposed report format for Monitoring Activities
The Implementing Ministry in this case MINAGRI, shall be required to make a
monitoring report in which the following will be described:
*  Name or title, address of developer
*  Name project
*  Details of environmental parameters/aspects monitored
*  Results of the monitoring exercise
*  In a case where the results of the follow up survey shows to be worse than the
estimation described in the EA, the developer shall identify new measures for
improved environmental conservation.
8.8       It is proposed that the Directorate of Environment in MINITERE reviews the
monitoring reports and guide or recommend the developer to take necessary measures if it
considers from the judgement that the implementation of the project or any of its components may
adversely affect the environment.
Environmental Appraisal and Advisory Programme
8.9    Considering that most of the project staff and project participants will have limited
knowledge of and experience with environmental issues, it is recommended that the services of an
international Environment Specialist to assist the PCMU with the implementation of the proposed
environmental plans be obtained. He/she would advise on modifications and extensions of the
monitoring programme as needed and to participate- in training of project staff on environmental
issues.
8.10   The expert will report to the National Project Co-ordination/Steering Committee regarding
the development and implementation of the environmental management plans. Five weeks (4
field/Ireporting) will be required per year, from first year to full project development.
Timing:   five weeks (4 field/i reporting) per year, from first year to full project development
Costing:   honorarium ($400/week)                $8,000
Expenses (150/week)                   $3,000
Reporting ($ 100/year)                $400
Total                       $11,400
(all budget data ref. the environmental mitigation plan should go together, e.g. ANNEX 3)
Capacity Development and Training
8.11   At the national level, there will be a need to strengthen capacity for environmental
management through on-job training and orientation of staff of MINAGRI and MINITERE,
particularly Directorates of Environment, Lands, Settlements, Rural Engineering which have a
direct role in the implementation of the project. Staff should take advantage of training
opportunities, which exist in Rwanda and elsewhere in the sub-region, particularly the
environmental courses being offered at Makerere University Kanpala Uganda and Moi
University in Eldoret Kenya.
45



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
8.12   Apart from EIA training which is discussed in Chapter 9, it will be necessary to carry out
a training needs assessment during the early stages of project implementation to determine other
training requirements of the various projects participants particularly those involved to be
involved in environmental reviews approval, monitoring and supervision.
8.13   In order to meet the immediate requirements for environmental monitoring, the Project
will have to support tailor-made courses to be organised for project staff and those to be involved
in project monitoring at national and prefecture levels.
8.14   In addition, the project will have to support the procurement of specialised field
equipment such as conductivity meters, Oxygen meters, pH meters to facilitate on site monitoring
of the environment impacts and compliance with the mitigation measures.
8.15   It is proposed to carry out a capacity needs assessment prior to implementation of the
project to determine actual training needs and equipment requirements so that their costs are
included in the PIP.
Integration of Environmental Management Plan with the Project
8.16   In order to ensure that the proposed mitigation measures are effectively, it will be
necessary to integrate the costs of these measures into the overall project costs and reflected in the
PIP.
46



RWANDA: Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment Report
Table 13          Monitoring and mitigation strategy for Potential Environment Impacts of the RSSP
Project investment           Related  Activity which  mnay   Potential Environment Impact   Proposed Mitigation Measures         Key indicators to be monitored          Lead agency
result Into impact
Improvements of infrastructure   *   Construction of dykes and  Disruption of hydrology     *   Strict supervision               *   Changes in water quality            MINAGRI
canals                                                    *   Environmental code of conduct    *   Complaints from downstream users
*   Rehabilitation  of existing
dykes and canals
Support to private operators to  Construction of feeder and trunk  Disruption of hydrology  *   Strict supervision               Changes in water quality - sediment loads   MINAGRI
invest   in   infrastructure  roads                                                         *   Environmental code of conduct for                                        MINERENA
construction and maintenance                                                                     the private sector
activities
Acquisition  of  post-harvest  Not known                    *   Disruption of hydrology     Create buffer zones                  Habitat changes                         MINiTERE
infrastructure                                              *   Loss of biodiversity
47



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Project investment           Related  Activity  which  may   Potential Environment Impact    Proposed Mitigation Measures          Key indicators to be monitored           Lead agency
__________________   result into  impact
Rehabilitation  of  degraded   *   Rehabilitation   of  canal  *   Loss of biodiversity      *   Create buffer zones               *   Altered flow rates                   MINAGRI
marshlands and hillsides          irnigation system          *   Changes in surface water  *   Diversify crops grown               *   Observed loss of top soil            MINiTERE
*   Land    levelling    and        quality                     *   Regular monitoring of nitrogen
distribution                                                    and phosphorous contents of the
*   Repair of dykes                                                  drainage water
Flooding for rice cultivation   *   Disease transmission        *   Improved land irrigation          Health centre cases                     MINISANTE
*   Destruction of vegetation   *   De-weeding                        Sediments loads in rivers and canals    MINAGRI
*   Siltation                   *   Strict    supervision    during
construction work by DE
*   Replanting  of vegetation  after
constiuction                     *   User complaints                     MINAGRI
vegetation to filter sediments   *   Canal flow rates
Preparation and piloting of off-  Not known'                 2                               *   Include  environment issues  in  Complaints in interviews                  MINAGRI
farm development strategies                                                                       selection criteria
*   Environment awareness
This will depend on the type of activity selected
2Impacts will depend on the scale and location of the selected activity.
48



RWANDA: Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment Report
9. SCREENING PROCESS FOR PROJECTSANTERVENTIONS
9.1   The PCD proposes a demand driven process to identify projects to be funded under the RSSP
through a decentralised system. The PCD also envisages three sets of activities. These are:
*  Establishment of a project co-ordination and monitoring unit
*  Design and implementation of mechanism to effectively co-ordinate the programme
activities
*  Design and implementation of a mechanism to effectively monitor and evaluate the
programme activities
9.1   From an environmental perspective this process needs to be defined before environmental
safeguards can be provided under the RSSP. Given the complexity of the RSSP and the need to
follow a bottom up approach, the following co-ordination arrangements are proposed. Figure 1
gives the proposed co-ordination mechanisms for the environment review process while Figure 2
and Table 12 outline the proposed procedures to be followed before sub-projects are approved.
This process envisages five types of institutions to be involved in the review and approval of the
sub-projects. These are; the Project Steering Committee (PSC), Project Co-ordination and
Monitoring Unit (PCMU); the proposed Technical Committee on Environmental Assessment
(TCEA), the Community Development Committee (CDC). To assist the PCMU, the project
should support the recruitment of a full-time Environmental Specialist (ES). At the local level,
there should be established a Technical Assistance Team (TAT) consisting of Environment
Inspectors, Agronomists, Forest Officers and other technical staff, to assist Beneficiaries to
incorporate environmental issues into sub-project proposals.
49



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Figure 1: Sub-Project Development Procedures
9.2    The screening process is intended to reveal if the proposed intervention or project will:
| Comma ttee on    henrmta    s
Environmentntb t                         c        i     t
Assee sment a   c
thus beapprov dProject
Eni onnvironm ont  ordination  and
Specialist                   Monitoang Unift
Community|
.   oevelopmentI
Tochnicad                     commptt-este
Assistance T<a
Farmeors
Associations
9  not have a significant impact on the environment and should therefore be exempted
from further screening;
i   is likely to have some  impact on the environment but for which sufficient mitigation
measures have been identified and costed and on which the environmental aspects can
thus be approved; and
T  have significant impact on the nvr entiran t  for  which  no adequate mitigation
measures have been identified, hence requiring full environmental impact study.
9.4        In determining whether or not a project is likely to have a significant impact on the
environment, the Environment Agency' may use expertise or knowledge about the project site or refer
to the checklist for determrination of potentially significant impacts in Table 13 to assist them in the
process. The screening should also consider direct and indirect impacts; short-term and long-term
impacts as well as cumulative impacts of the proposed interventions.
'This could either be the Directorate of Environment or an institution authorised by the Directorate of
Environment.
50



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Site selection criteria
9.3    The following selection criteria are proposed based on the area proposed for development
Small to medium (5-150 ha)
9.4    While impacts of such developments are expected to be minimal, they should be analysed
and considered especially for cumulative impacts. These should be subjected to the environmental
impact questionnaire given in Annex 2.
Medium to large scale (150-500 ha)
9.5    Impacts are expected to be significant and should be analysed and mitigation measures
developed and adopted These developments should be subject to the environmental impact
questionnaire and checklist of development actions and an environment impact review.
Large scale development < 500 ha
9.6    These developments should be subject to a full EIA  process including scoping,
Environment Impact Review and Environment Impact statement as outlined in Figure 2.
Screening Steps
9.7    The investment sub-project cycle together with the recommended environmental measures
is presented in Table 13.
Table 14: Procedures for reviewing proposed interventions
Project Step              Environmental inputs                                 Responsibility'
Information dissemination    Integration of the environmental perspective      CDC/TAT
Organisation of groups
Project identification    Initial environmental review                         BEN/CDC
Project formulation       Incorporate mitigation measures in project design    BEN/CDC/TAT
Evaluation                Final environmental review                           PCMU/TCEA
Project approval          Concurrence with project classification and mitigation  PSC
measures
Project execution          Ensure implementation of mitigation measures        BEN/CDC
Supervision and Monitoring   Apply supervision forms and environmental monitoring of PCMU/TCEA
I pre-established environmental indicators
Key: CDC (Community Development Committees); TCEA (Technical Committee on Environment Assessment);
BEN (Beneficiaries); PSC (Project Steering Committee), TAT (Technical Assistance Team)
KIt is assumed that the overall responsibility for screening projects will be with the Project Coordination and
Management Unit (PCMU).
51



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Information campaign
9.8    Under the Project's management component, promotional activities would be supported to
increase awareness in target beneficiary groups of the project's objectives, opportunities and
procedures. Among these activities, workshops (at commune and cellular levels) would be carried
out to exchange information regarding sustainable agriculture and natural resources management
aspects of the project, and the importance of environmental protection.
Identification and sub-project formulation
9.9    Following the presentation by a beneficiary group (BEN) of a sub-project concept and its
initial acceptance by the CDC, the BEN will be required to develop a sub-project document prior
to receiving RSSP support. It will be the responsibility of the BEN to familiarise themselves with
project requirements including prohibited activities and environmental requirements. Upon
submission of the concept paper and approval by the CDC, a technical assistance team (TAT) may
be assigned to assist the group with project formulation. If assigned, it will be the responsibility
of both the BEN and TAT to identify potential environmental issues associated with sub-project
formulation and incorporate mitigation measures where possible.  The PCMU will provide
support including provision of the environmental checklist to be used in screening.
Sub-project evaluation and selection
9.10   The PCMU will have the technical responsibility of evaluating sub-project proposal
submissions and advising the CDC accordingly. The process of proposal evaluation is based on a
numerical ranking and resulting from a screening checklist, which has selection criteria and
indicators. Points will be assigned by criterion depending on the proposal's relevance to project
objectives.
9.11   The screening checklist addresses environmental aspects of the proposal through the
application of one criterion based on predicted environmental impacts. There are five possible
responses based on level of impact: (i) positive, through the promotion of land restoration, (ii)
positive, through the implementation of conservation measures, (iii) neutral, (iv) adverse but
mitigable, and (v) unacceptable.
9.12   To assist the PCMIJ in the environmental screening process, a supplementary checklist
has been developed to review and evaluate sub-project proposals. The list is divided into three
sections: (i) basic information on the sub-project, (ii) general environmental review criteria to
facilitate the selection of the most appropriate response, and (iii) activity-specific criteria which
will assist the technician of the PCMU in the identification of impacts, relevant mitigation
measures, and monitoring indicators. Additional activity-specific checklists will be developed
with the assistance of the contracted international environmental consultant during the first year of
the project (6 person months).
9.13   As an added precaution, RSSP will explicitly exclude a number of activities from
receiving project support.  This list includes such potentially environmentally problematic
activities as (i) the purchase of high-risk agro-chemicals such as those Classified by WHO as IA
and IB; (ii) the drainage of wetlands"; (iii) the modification of intact wetlands and (iv) activities
involving protected areas or areas proposed for conservation,(v) new roads
52



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
9.14   The responsibility for the environmental review  will rest with the PCMU  national
environmental specialist assigned to evaluate proposals. For purposes of maintaining quality
control, the concurrence of the PCMU specialist who would receive more intensive training in
environmental assessment will be required prior to sending the proposal to the PSC for approval.
Project execution
9.15   Similar to the sub-project identification and formulation phase, it will be the responsibility
of both the BEN and TAT to ensure that agreed mitigation measures are followed during the
implementation phase. Again, the TAT will provide support where needed.
Project Supervision and Monitoring
9.16   Sub-projects supported under the RSSP will be subject to supervision missions twice a
year carried out by the Environmental Specialist assisted by the Technical Assistance Team .
Sub-project status will be recorded by the ES through the use of supervision forms.
Environmental parameters, which will be integrated into these supervision forms as provided in
Box 1 under the section on Monitoring. In addition to the supervision carried out by the PCMU
technicians, representatives to the CDC will have the responsibility of ensuring that the
environmental guidelines and safeguards of RSSP are adhered to.
Training
9.17   To ensure that the aforementioned mitigation measures are effective, the RSSP would
support a complementary environmental training program. This would be directed to key target
groups such as: the Environmental Specialist in the PCMU who would have the responsibility
for sub-project evaluation and supervision. This training should also target extension staff and
technicians and institutions that would be contracted to assist beneficiaries in sub-project
identification and formulation (TAT).
9.18   This program which is included under the Project's management component, will consist
of 3 EIA short courses. A basic course for all PCMU technicians and selected TAT (3 days) and a
more intensive course (1-2 weeks) for the Environment Specialist and the Technical Assistance
Team who would assume the main responsibility for final environmental review of sub-projects.
The estimated cost associated with the entire training program is about US$ 120,000 (see details
in Box 2 and Annex 3)'
Technical Assistance
9.19   The project would support 6 person months of international environmental expertise
(national or international)over the project's first year. The consultant will be responsible for: (i)
building capacity in PCMU in environment and sustainable agriculture as it relates to the small
rural farmers and labourers; (ii) providing technical support to CDCs, PSC and MINAGRI staff at
'The short course will target all those involved in the review and approval process for the sub-projects at various
stages, the Intensive Course will target the technical staff who will be directly involved in the monitoring and
supervision of the sub-projects and ensuring the integration of environmental issues
53



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Enviromnental Assessment
the state and regional levels; and (iii) supporting the development, inclusion, and utility of
environmental information in RSSP's monitoring system.
9.20   Short-term environmental TA on an "as needed" basis will also be available through the
RSSP investment programme. Contracting procedures are the same as will be used in procuring
other TA services. The cost of the 6 person months of environmental expertise will depend on
qualifications and experience but include a monthly salary, field costs including a per diem and
air fares. An estimate of US 39,000 is proposed to cater for the Environment Consultant'.
This is based on: (i) a monthly salary of US$3,0001month (US$18,000). (ii) 10 trips to the field @ US$150/trip
(US$1,500), (iii) a per diem cost of US$75/day for 60 days (US$4,5000), and (iv air tickets of US$ 2,000
each (US$ 2,000).
54



RWANDA - Rwral Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Figure 2 - Procedure for initiating and appraising development projects under RSSP
r  PROPOSED         |
1         |  ~~DEVELOPMENT l
|Prepare project|
briefl
|   praisal by PCMU/               Reieprjc
|   " TCEA             1-1or abandon
|Brief Approved |    |Brief Rejece 
|EIS ReuEInorequired|j
|Conduct EIS as |     | Implement             Moiorpo
|Revise project in light|
I of EIS results   1        
Appraise modified                   Reis proosl
project by PCMU d/Rvs pooa 
|Modifications  |    |Modification |
accepted    l      l    rejected     l
|    mplement 
p roposal I
t   |             |   Impl~~~ement
Monitor impacts             miiation
55



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Box 2. Environmental Training Progranune
This training is aimed at provided introductory skills for environmental management to key people
who will be involved in environmental monitoring at the national and local levels.
1. EIA Short Course
Duration:   3days
Frequency:  2 courses during the first and second year of the project
Location:   Kigali, or UNR Butare
Number of participants: 30
Target: Environment Inspectors, Agronomists, and Foresters, Environment Specialist of PCMU,
Total number of course: 2
Requirements: (2courses, 30 participants each)
Unit cots             total cost $
Transport-participants        20                      1,200
Accommodation and meals       50                     3,000
Per Diem for instructor        100                    1000
Expert (honorarium)           250                     2,500
Air tickets for instructor     1,000                  1,000
2. EIA Intensive Course
Duration:   10 days
Frequency   1 courses during the first and second year of the project
Location    Kigali, or UNR Butare
Number of participants: 30
Target: Environment Inspectors, Agronomists, and Environmental Specialist
Total number of courses: 2
Requirements: (2 courses, 30 participants each)
Unit cots             total cost $
Transport              20                     1,200
Accommodation and meals       50                      15,000
Per diem for instructor        100                    1,500
Expert (honorarium)           250                     2,500
Air tickets for instructor    1000                    1,000
56



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Table 15. Checklist of Development Actions, impacts and site (locations) of impact
The tabulation of development types and wetland interventions, nature of impact and
geographical location of impact given below is intended to provide a quick reference guide to the
assessment of a development.
Development type and action                 Type of impact                 Site affected             Leve of Impact
Positive    Minor        Major
Drainage canals                    Reduced flooding                         On-site
Drying-out of land                       On-site
Change in water table                    On-site
Reduced fertility                        On-site
Reduced water-storage capacity           On-site
Reduced nutrient-retention capacity     On-site
Changes in habitats                      On-site
Obstruction of migratory routes          On-site
Loss of resources                        On-site
Change in income distribution            On-site
Change in base flow                      Downstream
Change in peak flow                      Downstream
Increased flooding                       Downstream
Change in nutrient content               Downstream
Change in water turbidity                Downstream
Erosion                                  Downstream
Flood channels                     Reduced flooding                         On-site
Change in flood timing                  On-site
Change in peak flows                     On-site
Downstream
Drying-out of land                      On-site
Reduced water-storage capacity          On-site
Reduced nutrient-retention capacity     On-site
Reduced fertility                        On-site
Changes in habitats                      On-site
Obstruction of migratory routes          On-site
Increased access to resources           On-site
Loss of resources                        On-site
Change in income distribution            On-site
Increased flooding                       Downstream
Changes in nutrient content              Downstream
Changes in water turbidity               Downstream
Erosion                                  Downstream
Dredging                           Erosion                                  Downstream
Change in base flow                      On-site      &
Downstream
Change in peak flows                     On-site      &
Downstrea
m
Erosion                                  On-site      &
Downstream
Change of habitats                       On-site      &
Downstream
_Increased flooding                       Downstream
Excavated basins                   Reduced flooding                         Downstream
Change in peak flows                     Downstream
Drying-out of land                       Downstream
Change in nutrient content               Downstream
Change in water turbidity                Downstream
Erosion                                  Downstream
Reduced fertilty                         Downstream
Change of habitats                       Downstream
Loss of resources                        Downstream
Change in income distribution            Downstream
Excavated pools                    Creation of habitats for disease vectors  On-site
57



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Development type and action                 Type of impact                 Site affected             Level of Impac
Positive   IMinor        Major     |
Land filling                       Drying-out of land                       On-site
Chanje in water table                   On-site
Reduced water-storage capacity          On-site
Reduced nutrient-retention capacity     On-site
Change of habitats                       On-site
Obstruction of migratory routes         On-site                      _
Loss of resources                       On-site
Chtange in income distribution          On-site
Change in base flow                     Downstream                               _
Change in peak flows                    Downstrearn
Inereaed flooding                       Downstream
Change in nutrient content              Downstream
Change in water turbidity               Downstream
Surface      water      off-talce   Reduced flooding                        On-site      &
(Exploitation)                                                              Downstream
Change in flood timing                  On-site
Change in income distribution           On-site      &
Downstream
Change in base flow                     Downstream
Increased flooding                      Downstream
Drying-out of land                      Downstream
5Change in peak flows                   Downs8eam
Groundwater exploitation           Drying-out of land                      On-site
Change in water table           _    _On-site                         _ 
Change of habitats                      On-site_
Change in income distribution           On-site
Change in basc flovv                    Downstream
Water holes                        Creation of habitats for disease vectors  On-site=
Irrigation                         Change in water table                   On-site
Salinisation                            On-site_
Obstruction of migratory routes         On-site
Change in incorme distribution          Or.-site_
Flood water storage dams           Change of habitats                       On-site
Obstruction of migratory routes         On-site
Creation of habitats for disease vectors  On-site
Reduced flooding                        Downstream
Change in base flow                      Downstream
Ctiange in peak flows                    Downstream
Change in nutrient content              Downstream
Change in water turbidity                Downstream_
Change in income distribution           Downstream
Flood diversion darns              Reduced flooding                         On-site__
Obstruction of muigratory routes        On-site
Creation of habitats for disease vectors  On-site
Change in base flow                      Downstream
Change in peak flows                    Downstream
Drying-out of land                      Downstream.
Change in water table                    Downstream
Change in nutiient content               Downstream
Change in water turbidity                Downstream
Change in income distribution            Downstream_
Controlled-flooding dikes          Redce looing                             On-site
Change in flood timiing                  On-site
Change in water table                    On-site
Reduced fertility                       On-siteI
Change of hiabitats                     On-site
Obstruction of rsugratory routes        On-site                    _
Change in water turbidity                Downstream
Pollution                                Downstream
58



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Narrative guidelines for use of the checklist of development actions and impacts
*  This checklist is intended to assist the assessor in determining the location of impacts
and the level of impacts. This checklist should be used in combination with the impact
identification questionnaire and matrix given in Annex 2.
*  Use of the checklist will require detailed information on project design and scale.
Such information should be provided by the intending developer (beneficiary) in
project brief.
*  The assessor should mark in each of the boxes from  a range of 1-10 with 1
representing the least impact and 10 the greatest impact.
*  It should be noted that importance refers to geographical location. i.e. whether the
impact will be localised to a village, a prefecture, national or regional.
*  The discussion in the report should focus on the significant impacts.
59



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Ervironmental Assessment
10. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
10.1   The mission considers RSSP provides an opportunity to restore the degraded environment
and ecosystems in Rwanda and supports the approach to rehabilitate both hillsides and the
marshlands. The mission however notes that the initial activities outlined in the PCD place a lot
of emphasis on the marshlands'. Following the review of the different project options, the
potential environmental impacts of the rehabilitation of the marshlands, this EA recommends that
a modified project option be adopted with the following main elements - the catchment area
approach and management plans for individual selected project sites.
10.2   The mission considers that the preparation of comprehensive management plan for
individual selected sites harmonising all aspects of management of the resources including socio-
economic considerations is essential for the success of the project. The EA team recommends that
the completion of satisfactory management plans and hydrological modelling to ensure adequate
water is retained in the system for environmental purposes for selected sites be a pre-requisite for
the start up of all major investments/infrastructure activities - road rehabilitation, irrigation
infrastructure. Such a plan would also indicate the full range of activities to be undertaken,
including capacity-building and training requirements, environmental issues and define the roles
and responsibilities of the various parties including the central and local authorities. The
development of the Management Plan should be co-ordinated closely with other relevant plans,
policies and strategies such as the Soil and Water Conservation Policy, the Water Resources
Policy, Master Plan for the Management of marshlands due to begin in September 2000, the Soil
Fertility Initiative among others. One of the key issues to be addressed in the management plan is
that of land use zoning to delineate usage areas, buffer zones and cattle corridors, among others.
10.3   The EA recommends that a catchment area approach be adopted by the project with the
following objectives: (i) to restore the capacity of the wetlands and hillsides for production while
enhancing other ecological and environmental benefits; (ii) limit negative effects on trans-
boundary water resources; (iii) promote biodiversity conservation in both natural and modified
environments. Annex 1 gives details of the modified project scenario.
10.4   The World Bank initially classified the proposed RSSP as a category B project with a
proviso that the final category will be determined after a review of the results of Environment
Assessment. This was on the understanding that potential environmental impacts of small-scale
rural infrastructure investments can be mitigated appropriately and the potential environment
impacts of the development and rehabilitation of the hillsides are not yet known.
10.5  It should be noted that some of the activities related to rural infrastructure investment
cannot be mitigated since they will irreversibly alter the environment, unless equivalent areas of
wetlands or similar environments (in terms of functions and values) can be established in another
location. These include infilling of wetlands to create infrastructure such as roads or settlements.
Such activities should be avoided to the extent possible.
For example, the PCD specifically mentions 5000 ha to be rehabilitated but does not indicate how much of the
hillsides will be rehabilitated.
60



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
10.6  Following the Environmental Assessment, it is therefore the team's considered technical
opinion that the rehabilitation of the areas which are already developed, including marshlands,
hillsides and existing roads, the project be placed under category B provided that:
(i)  no new areas are included in the project (see list of potential sites and their
ratings); and
(ii) the proposed mitigation measures are adhered to.
10.7   However, in the event that the project opts to support major infrastructure activities such
as new roads, or modernisation of the production systems using the typology 5 of the engineering
designs', then the project should be reclassified as Category A.
Establishment of a Technical Committee on Environmental Assessment
10.8   Considering  that no  environmental legislation  is presently  in  place  requiring
environmental assessments and in order to ensure quality control, the EA recommends that a
Technical Committee on Environmental Assessment be established by the GOR to provide an
independent review of the proposed projects/interventions and also to ensure that appropriate
mitigation measures are adopted by project proponents. This committee will also play a role in
monitoring the overall implementation of the mitigation plan. The committee will comprise of
experts drawn from public and private sectors as well as academic and research institutions. The
TCEA will meet quarterly or on an "as need" basis and will report quarterly to the Project Co-
ordination Committee. Detailed terns and conditions of service of the TCEA will be required.
National Wetlands Policy
10.9   Given the competing needs for wetlands for agricultural use, as well as the need to
conserve critical habitats for biodiversity, the GOR should develop a comprehensive national
wetland policy and legislation to provide a framework for the conservation and management of
wetlands. The EA team supports the steps taken to incorporate wetlands issues in the National
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan which was adopted in principle in June 2000 following a
national consensus workshop. In addition, Rwanda should ratify the Ramsar Convention on
Wetlands and identify one or more wetlands of international importance to be included in the list
of the same name. This will not place new obligations on the country since Rwanda has already
ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity and is party to several regional initiatives
including the Nile Basin Initiative.
Typology 5 proposes modernisation of infrastructure, which will require installation of new works and
labelling of the fields.
61



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
11. RECOMMENDED FOLLOW-UP ACTIVITIES TO BE COMPLETED
DURING APPRAISAL OR PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE
PROJECT
11.1   Given the fact that project interventions will be identified through a demand driven
process and no specific sites had been identified at the time of this EA, the following activities
should be considered during the appraisal mission or prior to commencement of the project:
*  Whereas the GOR has taken steps to develop environmental legislation, there is
neither an official policy nor legislation to provide the legal basis for environmental
management. It will therefore be necessary to secure GOR commitment on adopting a
time frame leading to the finalisation of the relevant environmental legislation. As an
interim measure, MINITERE and MINAGRI should identify clauses of the existing
legislation, which are relevant to the environmental management in general and
wetlands in particular;
*  The PCD proposes the establishment of a Project Co-ordination and Monitoring Unit
with the purpose of monitoring project activities. It is proposed that environmental
issues be incorporated in the Terms of Reference of the PCMU;
*  The proposed Environmental Mitigation Plan has identified several institutions to be
involved in implementing the proposed mitigation measures. It will be necessary to
secure commitment of these institutions on their readiness to commit time and
resources (both financial and human) to participate in the mitigation plan.
*  The EA proposes the establishment of a technical committee to provide an expert
opinion on the Environmental Assessments of proposed interventions.  It will
therefore be necessary to secure GOR agreement on the establishment of such a
committee including its Terms of Reference, composition and mode of operation.
*  The EA proposes a procedure for screening proposed projects/interventions. It will be
necessary to secure GOR agreement on the proposed screening procedures
*  The PCD proposes rehabilitation of 5000 ha of marshlands.  At the time of
undertaking this EA, there was no official GOR indication of the specific sites to be
targeted.  It will be necessary to secure GOR commitment on priority list of
marshlands and hillsides to be rehabilitated and to subject these to the screening
process.
*  Notwithstanding the outcome of priority, the GOR should exclude the following
wetlands from the list of sites to be considered for development under the RSSP.
These are Rugezi marsh, Akanyaru wetland, Nyabarango, Kibaya and Rugazi
Bisenga.
11.2      More importantly, an international environmental specialist should be included on the
appraisal mission team to ensure integration of environmental issues in the appraisal report.
62



RWANDA
RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 1
MINISTRY WITH MANDATES FOR ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT






RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Annex 1: Ministry with mandates for Environment and natural Resource Management
ANNEX 1
MINISTRY WITH MANDATES FOR ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
1.        Ministry  of Lands, Human  Resettlement and  Environmental Protection
(MINITERE). This is a new Ministry following the government restructuring in February 1999.
Prior to its transfer from MINAGRI, the Directorate of Environment had overall responsibility for
water resources management (with the exception of the supply and distribution of potable water).
When the Directorate was transferred to MINITERE, responsibility for water resources
management was transferred to the new Ministry of Energy, Water and Natural Resources
(MINIRENA - see below). MINITERE has five Directorates: Lands; Habitat; Environmental
Protection; Planning; and Legal Affairs; and General Services. It is responsible for developing
land utilisation policies (including surveying, land classification, land laws and land tenure); the
development of environmental policies and procedures (including impact assessments), protection
of natural resources (water, land, flora, fauna), environmental legislation, biodiversity, and other
environmental aspects. The Directorate of Environmental Protection (DEP) has three Divisions:
Environmental Policy and Advocacy; Environmental Assessment; and Environmental Monitoring
and Inspection. DEP plays an oversight function; its role is to ensure that all development
activities are carried out in an environmentally sustainable manner and, in this respect, monitoring
is an important function. Another role of particular relevance to the GEF programme is the
promotion of stakeholder participation in environmental protection. MINITERE acts as the focal
point for the environment-related conventions (Convention on Biodiversity (CBD), United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), and the Convention on
Desertification (CCD) and is also the National GEF Operational Focal Point.
2.        Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry (MINAGRI). In the February
1999 restructuring, the Directorate for Environmental Protection was transferred to the Ministry
of Lands (now MINITERE, above) and responsibility for water resources management to the
Ministry of Energy, Water and Natural Resources. MINAGRI's primary mandate is the
development, transformation and modernisation of Rwandan agriculture in its broadest sense
(including forestry, fisheries and livestock). The Directorate of Rural Engineering (Genie Rural)
and Soil Conservation (DGRCS) advises the Government on land management and is the
technical agency responsible for the exploitation and management of the wetlands for agriculture.
DGRCS collaborates closely with the other ministries involved in water resources management.
The Department of Forestry is responsible for management of the forest reserves and plantations.
3.        Ministry of Energy, Water and Natural Resources (MINIRENA). Another newly
recreated ministry after the government restructuring in February 1999, MINIRENA has been
mandated to handle most of the water-related matters which had previously been under the
purview of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Environment and Rural Development. Through
its Directorate of Water and Sanitation (DWS), MINIRENA is responsible for water resource
management. Its main objective is to ensure protection and conservation of water resources, and
ensure supply of water and sanitation systems to the Rwandan population. DWS is comprised of
four divisions: Division of Urban Water, Division of Rural Water, Sanitation Division, and
Hydrology and Water Resources Management Division. It is this latter division that would be
most involved in the RSSP and proposed GEF activities. The Hydrology and Water Resources



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Annex 1: Ministry with mandates for Environment and natural Resource Management
Management Division is responsible for the preparation of hydrological surveys, assessment of
potential underground water resources, maintenance of a database on national water resources,
water quality control, monitoring water levels in lakes and river systems, determining
hydrological balances and deficits within water basins, granting permits for the exploitation of
water resources, among other things. MINIRENA, MINITERE and MINAGRI collaborate closely
in wetlands management.
4.        Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communication (MINITRACO) plays
an important role in water resources management through its Division of Meteorology, which is
located in the Directorate of Transport. The Division of Meteorology is comprised of six sections:
Meteorology, Agrometeorology, Climatology, Meteorological Centre, Data Analysis and
Computers, and Hydrometeorology. It co-ordinates all aspects of meteorology and provides data
and information to all interested users. The Division of Meteorology works closely with
MINIRENA, MINAGRI and other institutions concerned with water resource management.
5.        Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism  (MINICOM) is responsible for
management of the Protected Areas and tourism and houses the Rwandan Office for Tourism and
the Protected Areas (ORTPN), located within MINICOM, is responsible for the day-to-day
management of the and is responsible for the protected areas system and wildlife conservation and
Protected Areas.
2



RWANDA
RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 2
MODIFIED PROJECT SCENARIO






RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Annex 2: Modified Project Scenario
ANNEX 2
MODIFIED PROJECT SCENARIO
1.        Water use and land use is interrelated in many respects. Water use decisions in one
part of a watershed is likely to pose opportunities and constraints for users in other parts both up
and down stream. These circumstances call for integrated planning on a watershed basis to ensure
that the basin water is not over committed, that upstream users do not deprive downstream users.
Proposed projects must meet their intended purposes, and that patterns and amounts of growth are
kept in balance with the capacity of the water resources.
2.        The EA team believes that inspite of the positive benefits outlined in Chapter 6, some
of the adverse environmental impacts such as infilling of wetlands are difficult to mitigate against.
Indeed many of the wetlands have been irreversibly modified to the extent that they can no longer
be considered as wetlands. The EA considers that the project in its present form (as described in
the PCD of May 2000) does not guarantee sound environment management as stipulated in the
World Bank Safeguard policies and Environmental Assessment operational guidelines, (OP, BP,
GP 4.01).
3.        The team also believes that great emphasis has been placed on the rehabilitation of
the marshlands as a means of increasing crop production and the development of market strategies
and improvement of infrastructure to support the increased production. The EA questions the
long-term sustainability of the rehabilitated marshlands given that previous rehabilitation projects
of a similar nature have not increased productivity in the long term (Aide memoir of February
2000).
4.        Furthermore the recommended approaches appear to concentrate on the social and
economic factors in production and seem to down play the ecological role of the ecosystem,
which is the main engine that drives and sustains production. Earlier project designs 'also seem to
ignore the impact of adjoining ecosystems on productivity in any given area. Figures 2 and 3 (in
an annex these should be Figures I and 2 ) outline the close linkages between ecology, social
and economic, agro-technical and anthropogenic issues and how these interact to ensure
sustainability. The assumption is most cases is that given water and land, production is automatic.
5.        The RSSP provides an opportunity for restoring some of the key functions of
wetlands and the associated catchment areas. The catchment areas do no only replenish water to
the wetlands but also serve as a repository for renewable natural resources and sanctuary for
biodiversity including some of the rare and endangered species.
6.        In light of the above, the EA team therefore recommends a modified project option
involving a catchment area/ecosystem approach to ensure that all the key factors which are likely
to influence production are included in the project implementation process. Such a process would
also ensure that the key stakeholders are involved in the implementation process.
'Project RWA/96/025 Revival of marshland activities jointly financed by UNDP, FAO and the Government.of
Rwanda



RWANDA - Rural Sector Supporl Project
Environmental Assessment Report
Annexe 2: Modified Project Scenario
Management objectives
7.        The overall goals for environmental management should be to:
(a)  restore the capacity of the wetlands and hillsides for production while
enhancing other ecological and environmental benefits;
(b)  limnit negative effects on transboundary water resources;
(c)  promote biodiversity conservation in both natural and modified environments
8.        While the importance of the community and stakeholder participation are highlighted
in the PCD and the Social Assessment component, the EA team also recommends that community
participation be given even greater emphasis since they are the primary users of the natural
resources and therefore are key to their conservation. The team further recommends community
involvement in the design of project interventions. Therefore consideration should be given to a
more bottom up community approach to identifying sustainable development initiatives based on
the communities own priorities.
Develop Comprehensive Management Plans
9.        Given the diversity of ecosystems and sites to be involved, the EA team recommends
that comprehensive management plans be developed for each selected site based on the catchment
approach and as the basis for the management of the resources within that catchment.
10.       The following steps are recommended in order to arrive at an agreeable management
plan for the marshlands, hillsides and the associated catchment areas.
1 - Determine the stakeholders as far as the catchment area is concerned
11.       Wetlands and hillsides provide on-site and off-site benefits. The on-site beneficiaries
are usually the people who harvest products from the site and its immediate surroundings. The
off-site beneficiaries are those who usually enjoy the services like regular water supply, or
groundwater recharge functions, for instance for their boreholes. A stakeholder analysis has to
include both on-site and off-site beneficiaries. Where it is not practical to have off-site
beneficiaries participating in the management planning third parties, usually the local authorities
or NGOs may have to negotiate on their behalf.
2 - Determine the values/resources in the catchment area
12.       The resource analysis should go beyond the on-site resources and values and also
include the off-site values such as climate amelioration, water flow regulation among others.
2



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment Report
Annexe 2: Modified Project Scenario
3 - Determine the objectives of the management plan
13.       Key questions here are: which resources do we need to maintain, or increase, which
resources can we give up, if need be. These resources and values are not necessarily only the
products but do include wetland services and attributes. The objectives then read as a list of all
products, services and attributes that the management plan will attempt to conserve, enhance or
increase.
4 - Identify the management options that lead to the fulfllment to the objectives of the
management plan
14.       Usually, various management options are possible, each leading to a different mix of
resources being enhanced. Negotiations will have to take place to address the interests of as many
interest groups as possible. The negotiations may take several weeks or months, and may include
further studies if the impact of some management options is not clear. The discussions also
identify possible interventions in the wetland needed to achieve the objectives: a small clay-dam
to increase water volumes in the dry season, digging of a watering hole for cattle.
5 - Identify obligations, procedures and regulations to implement and maintain the
management plan
15.       Key-questions here evolve around actually implementing the agreed actions, for
instance the planting of boundary markers, procedures for monitoring whether the actions achieve
the objectives, procedures for revising the plan, and procedures for handling violations of the
management plan. For all these, roles and responsibilities have to be assigned to various
stakeholders in the process.
6 - Finalise the management plan, and make it known to all stakeholders
16.       A management plan is usually presented in a long, detailed report. However this may
not be very helpful in the management of a rural communal resources, where a majority of the
stakeholders have difficulties to read and write. Simple means of depicting the plan, for instance
on big billboards or in drawings or cartoons is needed in such cases to make it understood by
everybody.
7 - Monitor the implementation
17.       Monitoring procedures should be laid down in the management plan. They need to be
carried out in a transparent and participatory manner, and in a way that it generates useful
information to all stakeholders.
8 - Revise the management plan
18.       Management planning should be a dynamic process. Plans are adjusted to new
circumstances, or, based on monitoring information, to enhance the achievement of its objectives.
3



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment Report
Annexe 2: Modified Project Scenario
Box 2
Possible steps in developing collaborative management agreements
(CMA)
The following basic steps are followed in developing joint management agreements:
*   Various stakeholders identify themselves and agree to take part in the process of
developing a CMA. A starting point might be the Farmers Association.
*   Where no organised groups exist, the people should be assisted to organise and
agree on the own basic objectives, rules and formns of representation.
*   A socio-economic survey to assess people's attitudes and views on activities; to
determiine the availability of resources, and evaluate usable resources.
*   Stakeholders identify management goals and set priorities.
*   Stakeholders identify and discuss existing management arrangements in the area.
*   The development of an action plan with the community based on the identified goals
and priorities, as well as the carrying capacity of the selected site.
*   Stakeholders identify possible conflicts and propose ways to manage such conflicts.
*   Stakeholders negotiate an agreement around a specific management option that
establishes relevant rights and responsibilities for each of them.
*   Stakeholders identify appropriate requirements, procedures and regulations to
maintain the agreement as viable and effective.
*   Stakeholders fulfil requirements, implement procedures and enforce regulations.
*   Detailed technical feasibility studies on the proposed activities that further detail
what is possible and how it should be technically done;
a   The actual implementation of a starter activity, and subsequent activities after the
first one has proven a success;
*   Training of community members in the technical aspects of the activities, and in
general aspects of project management, book-keeping, community development etc.
*   PCMU and stakeholders monitor the process and review agreements as necessary.
4



RWANDA: RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Environment Assessment Report
Figure 2:: Analytical model for marshland development feasibility
study
T                         Socio-economic feasibility
(Do the benefits of this intervention in terms of income, livelihoods outweigh socialX
costs, investments, production costs and ecological costs in the long term)
Agro-cultural potenlial               Agro-technical potential  . 
(do the beneficiaries have the skills,  (does the intervention create a
experience, and organisation)       favorable production environment)
L                                   -.,_
Anthropogenic factors       -                Ecology
(do people have a culture for practicing .  (can the resource base support
and sustaining the proposed intervention)  the inlervention in the short and
long run)
Figure3: model of marshland development on ecosystem
components
imat  nadjoining inaterventin
5m--- 1                           ecoste       V
Interest, preferences, skills,. |*i
organisational capacity, experience  7actual agricultural production system
|                             |   L; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~impactsoffinterventionnonn
.  mut                        '~~~~~~~~,  L~~eco-system components
Anthropogenic  .
factors    ^      
,-  : .-- s>~~~~ _              Ecosystem                                   Aoingi
t '  ~ w.5'ULt ...... _0(determined by climate, topography, geology, time etc)    e.Acosytmpnts 5
5  gJa>/'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~omoet:f_s4;,jw 4p,  
| adjoining interventions    t






RWANDA
RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 3
INDICATIVE BUDGET FOR THE PROPOSED ENVIRONMENTAL
MITIGATION MEASURES






RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Annex 3: Indicative Budget for the proposed Environmental Midgation Meaures
ANNEX 3
INDICATIVE BUDGET FOR THE PROPOSED ENVIRONMENTAL
MITIGATION MEASURES
Mitigation measure                     Estimated cost (US$)
Management plan                                            60,000'
Environmental specialist                                    30,000
Preparation of land use/zonal plans                        30,0002
Biodiversity study programme                                 ,
Training and Awareness raising                              20,000
Short/tailor made courses                                    '03
Long term training in environmental management             45,000
(MSc)
Study tours and exchange visits                             10,000
-In country                                                20,000
-Outside the country                                       25,000'
Workshops/seminars                                          7,8005
Water quality monitoring programme                         30,0006
Improvement of health facilities
i Environment Specialist for 12 person months @ $5000/month
2 2 MSc at UNR Butare for 2 years $ 10.000 per student per year
3 3 MSc in environment management at universities outside Rwanda
4 NGO to submit sub-project proposals
5 300 water quality test at $6.5 per test for test for 4 years
6 estimated at about $5,000 per health facility






RWANDA
RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 4
A GENERALISED ENVIRONMENT IMPACT
IDENTIFICATION MATRIX






z
C-)                                           <~~~-
¾w  CD                                n 
Cl) ~~~~~~Cl -0C
_L _r                        CD   ____             
C DCD                 CD CD                                         o
_                    CD  CD                ,-   Drainag
C                D 
_ _                                                                             ZZ =    _ _  r  ch
(a.  -)     .     ............ -,  3Wate diversin .......
_"    CD CDW;  _                      -  D                                             m
_-I  .  _'         _  _  _  _  _  _  S,iDrainage
River channelisation
Water diversion                            Za
W  --   Dam construction                                           >
Dredging                                                 '
Landfilling
use   of   heavy    machinery
(compaction)                o                       ey        z
Fish pond construction 
Cleaning of vegetation                    Tl              5.
Burning                                             m           X
Soil preparation              ...
_ -_ _-Ination of a    sec iess
_  _  t    = -_   _  _  _  _  _      IIISpeciesI remosysa e                    X
Cultivation o
K   Irrigation                                                 S.
Monoculture                       0       0
'1>
Fertilizer application
Pesticide use                             Z
Introduction of alien species
Species removal 
Increase inlIivaestock numbers
-~Increase in fishing effort
Selective fishing
Excavation of clay
Excavation of sand
Increased labour requirements
Increase in human population



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Annex 4: A gencralised Environment Impact Identification Matrix
Salinisation _ _-
4 1WATER QUALI', Y ,.
Nutrient retention
Nutrient content _ _
Silt content
Eutrotication
Pollution
Salinity
BIVOLOIA                                                                              7
Floral composition
Faunal composition
Migration routes obstruction _  __
Loss of rare plant species___      __
Loss of rare animal species ___      ____                                                               _.
Loss of biological diversity_ __    __         _      _       _
Creation of new habitats__________
Aquatic vegetation___         ____                                 ___                                __.



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Annex 4: A generalised Environment Impact Identification Matrix
SOCIAL-ECONMIC *
Change in income
distribution
Increased access to
resources __ __
Reduced access to
resourcQs___
Change in population
structure___
Elimination of resources  _  __
Reduced access to
resources __ _          _                                                                            _                    _
Increased access to
resources _  _                                                                           __  ______
Loss of agricultural land_______                                                                                       ___



RWANDA - Rural rector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Annex 4: A generalised Environment Impact Identification Matix
Narrative guidelines for use with the impact identification matrix
* The impact identification matrix is intended to assist the assessor in determiining the impacts
caused by different development actions. In addition, quantification of the impacts can be
achieved by determining the magnitude. The significance of impacts can also be assessed using
the matrix.
* Use of the matrix like any other EIA assessment tool requires detailed information of the
characteristics of the developments. E.g. design and scale; actions during construction, operation,
decommissioning etc.
* The matrix should be completed at the proposed site of the development.
* Initially the assessor should familiarise her/him self with the project actions provided in the
project brief, the causes of impacts listed across the top of the matrix and the environmental
components listed vertically along the side of the matrix.
*  All development actions or wetland interventions that are likely to be undertaken by the
developer/contractor in light of the development in question should be identified on the matrix.
*  Below each of the proposed development actions and/or interventions, place a slash in the box at
the intersection of each environmental component on the side of the matrix if an impact is
presumed likely to occur.
*  After completing all relevant boxes in the entire matrix, the magnitude and significance of the
impact can then be assessed. In each of the boxes two numbers can then be recorded; one in the
top left hand corner representing the impact magnitude. A number recorded in the right hand
corner of the box represents the impact significance.
*  The magnitude of the likely impact is subjectively determined by choosing a number from a range
of 1 to 10; 1 represents the smallest impact while 10 represents the greatest possible impact.
e  In order to indicate whether an impact is beneficial or not, a (+) sign should be placed before each
number in the left-hand top corner if the impact is beneficial. If the impact is not beneficial, then a
(-) sign should precede the number.
* Placing a number from a range of 1 to 10 in the lower right hand corner of the box indicates the
significance (importance) of an impact. 1 represents least importance and 10 the greatest
importance. It should be noted that importance here refers to the geographical area likely to feel
the impact i.e. local, district, regional or national.
*  Finally the discussion in the report should focus on the significant impacts. Significance of the
impacts should be discussed in reference to the columns and rows with the large numbers of boxes
ticked and individual boxes with high numbers.



RWANDA
RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 5
IMPACT QUESTIONNAIRE CHECKLIST






RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Annex 5: Impact Questionnaire Checklist
ANNEX 5
IMPACT QUESTIONNAIRE CHECKLIST
HYDROLOGY
1. Will the development reduce flooding of areas below or upstream of the proposed
development site?
YES    I NO          PROBABLY YES         PROBABLY NOT           DON'T KNOW
2. Will the development modify the timing of floods at the proposed site?
YES  2   NO F        PROBABLY YES         PROBABLY NOT  L    DON'T KNOW   L
3. Will the development modify the base flows hence leading to an increase or decrease of
dry season flows downstream of the development site?
YES L      NO   L    PROBABLY YES L        PROBABLY NOT  L           DON'T KNOW   L
4. Will the development lead to drying out of the wetland?
YES       NO         PROBABLY YES  C   PROBABLY NOT  C    DON'T KNOW LI
5. Will the development cause permanent chan es in the water table of the wetland?
YES DNOLPR PROBABLY YES L PROBABLY NOT 7    DON'TKNOW L
6. Will the development lead to a reduction in the capacity of a wetland to store water?
YES [-NO L           PROBABLY YES         PROBABLYNOT 7            DON'TKNOW C
WATER QUALITY
7. Will the developmet pollute the wetland at the site, and /or downstream?
YES K] NO  L         PROBABLY YES K]  PROBABLY NOT LK            DON'T KNOW  K]
8. Will the development cause reduction in the ability for the wetland to retain nutrients?
YES K    NO L        PROBABLY YES K    PROBABLY NOT  K]   DON'T KNOW  K
9. Will the development lead to eutrophication of downstream wetlands?
YES  L   NO H        PROBABLY YES  :   PROBABLY NOT  C    DON'T KNOW  K]



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Annex 5: Impact Questionnaire Checklist
10. Will the development lead to increase in silt content of the water flowing through the
proposed site?                                         F-                   m
YES L     NO   g    PROBABLY YES          PROBABLY NOT  L        DON'T KNOW  Li
11. Will the development lead to increase in salt content of the wetland?
YES  C   NO         PROBABLY YES 7        PROBABLY NOT  g    DON'T KNOW F
SOIL AND MORPHOLOGY
12. Will the devel?o nt lead to increase in soil erosion of downstream areas?
YES 7     NO Li  PROBABLY YES  Z   PROBABLY NOT  C    DON'T KNOW F
BIOLOGICAL IMPACTS
13. Will the development have any impacts on fauna and flora of the wetland?
YES  C   NO iC   PROBABLY YES  C   PROBABLY NOT                 DON'T KNOW 
14. Will the development change the composition of:
FAUNA
YES 7     NO  R    PROBABLY YES           PROBABLY NOT          DON'T KNOW
FLORA
YES CC  NO   C    PROBABLY YES            PROBABLY NOT          DON'T KNOW   Z
15. Will the development lead to reduction in the diversity of:
PLANT SPECIES
YES  L   NO P       PROBABLYYES 7         PROBABLY NOT           DON'T KNOW F]
ANIMAL SPECIES
YES  S   NO  S    PROBABLY YES            PROBABLY NOT           DON'T KNOW 
16. Will the development lead to loss of any rare
PLANT SPECIES
YES 7     NO        PROBABLY YES  O PROBABLY NOT  C    DON'TKNOW C
ANIMAL SPECIES
YES  C   NO   C    PROBABLYYES  C PROBABLYNOT  C    DON'TKNOW   C
17. Will the development lead to loss of endemic
PLANT SPECIES
2



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Annex 5: Impact Questionnaire Checklist
YES  E   NO   L    PROBABLY YES           PROBABLY NOT            DON'TKNOW       ]
ANIMAL SPECIES
YES  L] NO FL    PROBABLY YES  L   PROBABLY NOT  L    DON'T KNOW   L
18. Will the development obstruct the natural movement of fauna?
YES       NO   L    PROBABLY YES  L   PROBABLY NOT F-I   DON'T KNOW C
19. Will the development lead to creation of new habitats?
YFS  i         NO    PROBABLY YES  L PROBAB3LY NOT  L            DON'T KNOW L
SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACTS
20. Will the development lead to changes in access to wetland resources by. the
communities?
Increased access
YES  K-1 NO  K]  PROBABLY YES K]  PROBABLY NOT  K]   DON'T KNOW  K
Decreased access
YES K    NO  K]  PROBABLY YES  K    PROBABLY NOT [I]   DON'T KNOW  K]
21. Will the development lead to elimination of resources of the wetland?
YES [     NO         PROBABLY YES K    PROBABLY NOT  K            DON'T KNOW      ]
22. Will the development lead to loss of access to grazing area for livestock?
YES K     NO         PROBABLY YES K]  PROBABLY NOT  K             DON'T KNOW  K
23. Will the development lead to a reduction of area for flood-recession ariculture?
YES K    NO H        PROBABLY YES  K    PROBABLY NOT  C    DON'T KNOW  K
24. Wili the development lead to changes in income . distribution'. among the local
communities?
YES  K] NO  K        PROBABLY YES  K    PROBABLY NOT              DON'T KNOW 
3



RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Annex 5: Impact Questonnaire Checklist
Narrative guidelines for use with the impact questionnaire checklist
*  The impact questionnaire checklist is intended to assist the environmental assessor in identifying
all the likely potential impacts of a development project on a particular site. Identification of the
entire range of the impacts likely to be caused by a development action or wetland intervention is
the first step in carrying out a meaningful environmental assessment.
* The impacts listed out in the checklist are grouped under various subdivisions. The questions
asked under each subdivision guide the assessor in investigating the impacts under each category
systematically. Both the physical and biological and socio-economic environment is taken care of.
Subdivisions include hydrology, water quality, soil and morphology, biological, social and
economic components.
* The questionnaire is designed for use as a quick reference to likely impacts of a development
whose environmental effects are being assessed. Therefore it is possible to make a reasonable
assessment of the likely impacts of a development by visiting the proposed development site.
* The assessor should endeavour to answer all the questions laid out in the questionnaire by ticking
the appropriate box. If the assessor knows with certainty that the development will cause a specific
impact, the box marked YES should be ticked. If the development is not likely to cause a
particular impact, the assessor should tick the box marked NO. However, if the assessor is in
doubt of the likely occurrence of a particular impact, then the box marked PROBABLY YES
should be ticked. The box marked DON'T KNOW should be marked when the assessor has no
idea that a particular impact will occur.
e  In the event that the assessor is not certain of the likely occurrence of a particular impact resulting
from a particular development action or wetland intervention, he/she must consult with the regard
to the particular question.
* In case of big projects/developments, a team of specialists and not an individual should carry out
environment assessment. A scoping or IEA (initial environment assessment) is needed to identify
the need or otherwise of more detailed studies.
* The final report should consist of a description of all the likely potential impacts of the proposed
development of the stated site.
4



RWANDA
RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 6
CODE OF CONDUCT AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS
FOR CONTRACTORS






RWANDA - Rumal Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Annex 6: Code of Conduct and Environmental Conditions for Contactors
ANNEX 6
CODE OF CONDUCT AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS FOR
CONTRACTORS
1.        There is a tendency for contractors to try and maximise profits by engaging in
actions, which reduce on costs. Some of these activities like disposal of solid wastes. Standard
Environmental Guidelines (e.g. The World Bank's Environmental Standards for Contractors)
should be adhered to by all contractors, involved in the infrastructure development.
2.        All contractors working in the area must provide medical certificates for all workers,
both permanent and temporary, that they are free from Bilharzia. Costs for screening and
certificates to be borne by the Contractor. In case the PMU is not satisfied with the certificates
provided they should have the right to refuse the persons entry to the project sites.
3.        The PCMU should ensure that contractors follow the recommendations in the EA
regarding cutting and damaging of trees and vegetation in the project areas. Sanctions should be
included in the contracts for unnecessary clearing and damaging of trees in and out of the project
area.
4.        Where it is inevitable to cut tree or damage vegetation, the affected area should be
replanted with trees and vegetation to restore the original status of the area.






RWANDA
RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 7
ENFORCEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL RECOMMENDATIONS






RWANDA - Rural Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Annex 7: Enforcement of Environmental Recommendations
ANNEX 7
ENFORCEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL RECOMMENDATIONS
1.        In order to ensure strict adherence to the environmental conditions set in this EA, it is
proposed that a tenancy agreement be signed between the Farmers Association (on behalf of the
farmers) and MINAGRI. Such a tenancy shall prescribe the rules and regulations to be followed
by the tenants and the sanctions to be instituted in case of violation of these rules.
2.        Farmers who do comply with the provisions of the agreement and the project
environmental rules and regulations shall be liable to eviction from the project.
3.        It is further recommended that these rules be developed by MINAGRI in consultation
with the Directorate of Environment and that of Lands in MINITERE.
4.        Below is a preliminary list of actions, which would make a tenant liable to eviction:
*  use of agro-chemicals other than prescribed by the PMIJ and as approved by the
relevant authorities;
*  application of agrochemical at other times than those recommended by the PMU;
*  indiscriminate cutting and damaging of trees with permission from the PMU or a clear
plan to replant the trees;
*  hunting or deliberate destruction of wild animals without permission from the PMU.






RWANDA
RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
ANNEX 8
BIBLIOGRAPHY






RWANDA - RuRI Sector Support Project
Environmental Assessment
Annex 8: Bibliography
ANNEX 8
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Reflexion sur les modalites d'integration des aspects environmentaux dans l'amenagement et la mise en valeur
des marshlands du Rwanda. Gisagara Jean and Mugorewera Brocelle Mars 1993 Project FAOITCP/RWA/2254
Les sols des vallees du Rwanda; leurs proprietes morphol and physico-chemiyun
Ignace B/21MANAProject PNUD/FAO/RWA/89/006
Proposition du project Projet de conservation de la foret de Nyungwe (PCFN)
Rapport sun la strategie Nationale pour le D6veloppement et la gestion de petits marais. Roelof Sikkens and
Makuba Aaron, Kigali, December 1987
Appui a la mise e valeur des marais amenages au Rwanda. Quelques propositions d'Actions pour Sekou
DOUMBIA, Project FAO/96/025 December 97-1/98
Bikwemu G. and A. Mugenzi 1999. Etude d'impact environmental. Projet PNUDIFAO/RWA/96/025, Relance
des Activites d'amenagement des marais.
Etude du plan Director dAmenagement et de mise en valeur en vallees de la Nyabarongo et de l'Akanyaru.
Etudes de base, Volume 1-Rapport and Annexes SOGREAH, September 1988
Etude du Plan Director d'amenagement et de mise en valeur des vallees de la Nyabarongo, Avenant no.2 Etude
d'Environnement, Rapport patiel No.2 SOGREAH, September 1989.
UNDP/FAO 1993. AG: DP/RWA/89/006. Inventaires des marais. Rwanda, Conclusions et
recommendations du projet. Report terminal.
Republic of Rwanda Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (1998). Final report of Socio-
Demographic Survey conducted in 1996.
Republic of Rwanda Ministry of Local Government and Social Affairs (2000). National Decentralisation
Policy.
Republic of Rwanda Ministry of Local Government and Social Affairs (2000). Implementation Strategy
for the National Decentralisation Policy.
Sam Kanyamibwa (1999). Important Bird Areas for Africa. Rwanda World Conservation Monitoring
Centre Cambridge.



