Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21048-RW
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 37.2 MILLION
(US$48 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A
RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE
FIRST PHASE
OF THE
RURAI SECTOR SUPPORT PROGRAM (APL)
March 1, 2001
Rural Development 2
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 3 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Rwanda Francs (RWF)
RWF 431.4897 = US$1
US$1 = SDR 1.29181
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB              African Development Bank
AMT              Appropriate Means of Rural Transport
ARMD             Agricultural and Rural Market Development Project
ATT              Arterial Trails and Tracks
BNR              Banque Nationale du Rwanda
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CCOAIB           Conseil d'Appui des Organisations d'Appui aux Initiatives de Base.
CDC              Commune Development Committees
CEPEX            Central Project and External Finance Bureau
CETSE            Commercial Enterprises and Technical Support Entities
CRDP             Community Reintegration and Development Project
DCA              Development Credit Agreement
DEM              Directorate of Extension and Marketing
DPM              Direction de la Politique Monetaire
DRSA             Direction Regionale des Services Agricoles
ERC              Economic Recovery Credit
EMES             Extension, Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
FASDO            Farmer Agricultural Services Delivery Organizations
FEWS             Food Security Early Warning System
FY               Fiscal Year
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDA              International Development Association
IFAD             International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFPRI            International Food Policy and Research Institute
ISAR              Institut des Sciences Agronomniques du Rwanda
LACI             Loan Administration Change Initiative
MED              Monitoring and Evaluation Division
MINAGRI          Ministry oftAgriculture, Animal Resources and Forestry
MINALOC          Ministry of Local Administration and Social Affairs
MINECOFIN        Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Coulitry Director:    Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:    Joseph Baah-Dwomonli
Task Team  Leader:    OusiTmaie Badiane



MININTTERE      Ministry of the Interior, Communal Development and Resettlement
NGO             Non-governmental organization
PA              Project Agreement
PAC             Program Advisory Committee
PASDO           Private Agricultural Services Delivery Organizations
PFP             Policy Framework Paper
PIM             Project Implementation Manual (also named as Project Implementation Plan)
PNAS            Programme National d'Actions Sociales
PP              Procurement Plan
PRA             Participatory Rural Appraisal
PRGE            Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP            Poverty Reduction Strategy
PSCU            Project Support and Coordinating Unit
PSD             Private Sector Support Project
RSSP            Rural Sector Support Project
RWF             Rwanda Francs
SFA             Subsidiary Financing Agreement
SIM             Syteme d'Informnation sur les Marches
SLO             Specialized Local Organizations
UBP             Union des Banques Populaires du Rwanda
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
USAID           United States Agency for International Development






RWANDA
RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                  Page
1. Programr purpose and program phasing                                               3
2. Project development objective                                                       4
3. Global objective                                                                    4
4. Key performance indicators                                                          5
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      8
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          9
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 11
4. Programrr description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                12
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                21
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     25
3. Benefits and target population                                                     25
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      26
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         33
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         33
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           35
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   36
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        36
E. Summary P'roject Analysis
I. Economic                                                                           38
2. Financial                                                                          39
3. Technical                                                                          39
4. Institutional                                                                      40
5. Environmental                                                                      41
6. Social                                                                             44
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 46



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      47
2. Critical risks                                                                       47
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       49
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             50
2. Other                                                                                50
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            51
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           51
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            52
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      66
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           79
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary             80
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary      93
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         94
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      104
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    106
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   107
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             108
Annex I 1: Environmental Assessment                                                       110
Annex 12: Letter of Rural Development Policy                                              119
MAP(S)
IBRD 25927R



RWANDA
RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTR2
Date: March 1, 2001                                Team Leader: Ousmane Badiane
Country Director: Emmanuel Mbi                     Sector Manager: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project ID: P064965                                Sector(s): AY - Other Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Poverty Reduction; Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Global Supplemental Il: P070700                    Team Leader: Ousmane Badiane
Sector Manager/Director: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Supplement Fully Blended? No                       Sector(s): VY - Other Environment
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan         Implementation Period           Borrower
________  _______________                                 (Bank    FY) ._._.
IDA             Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       US$ m         Date        Date
APL 1        48.00    90.6     5.00       53.00     03/29/2001   12/31/2005 Government of Rwanda
Loan/
Credit
APLo2        55.00    91.7     5.00       60.00     03/31/2006   12/31/2011 Govemment of Rwanda
Loan/
Credit
APL 3        50.00    90.9     5.00       55.00     03/31/2012   12/31/2017 Government of Rwanda
Loan/
Credit
Total       153.00            15.00      168.00
Project Financing Data
[1 ] Loan    pX] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ Guarantee       [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 48
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: (1.5%                                   Service charge: 0.75%



Financing Plan:    Source                                     Loca          Foreign            tal
BORROWER                                                         1.08            0.00           1.08
IDA                                                             27.87           20.13         48.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                                1.10            0.00           1.10
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                      3.59            1.41          5.00
Total:                                                          33.64           21.54         55.18
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, ANIMAL RESOURCES AND FORESTRY
(MINAGRI)
Address: Kigali, Rwanda
Contact Person: Alfred Mutebwa, Director, Planning and Agricultural Statistics Division, MINAGRI, Kigali
Tel: (250) 85053                Fax: (250) 85057                 Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUSSM):
:00000;2jFY02lg   2i2002 00u.2003.i2.l 2004400} j;2005
Annual   10.72        13.05      12.04      12.19
Cumulative    10.72      23.77      35.81       48.00
Project implementation period: 2001-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
CS ~L PAD F-.,- 2. d  -MD
-2-



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
1.1    Agricultural growth in Rwanda has slowed down significantly over the last two decades, leading to
a continuous increase in the level of poverty. The annual growth rate of aggregate production has dropped
to -2.0 percent by the early 1990s from 0.8 percent in the early 1980s. The civil war and genocide in 1994
have contributed to a sharp deterioration of the situation, having caused a significant decline in agricultural
production. Rwanda's population, 92 percent of which is rural, is expanding rapidly, resulting in
increasing pressure to raise agricultural output and employment to an expanding labor force. Accordingly,
the main purpose of the Rural Sector Support Program (RSP) is to help the Government of Rwanda
achieve its strategic goal of revitalizing the rural economy and thereby increasing rural incomes, reducing
poverty, and reinforcing national stability. The program is guided by the recognition that the most effective
way to reduce poverty, and thus achieve the stability goal, is to raise the productivity and expand the
employment of resources that the rural poor own or depend on for their livelihood, primarily land and
labor. The challenge of poverty reduction, therefore, goes beyond the improvement of overall sector
performance over a certain period or that of given crops or sub-sectors in a more permanent manner.
Significant poverty reduction is to be achieved through sustained and broad-based growth in the portions of
the economy where poor people tend to be employed. Consequently, the efforts under the proposed
program would have to extend beyond the agricultural sector to include support for off-farm productive
activities in the rural areas.
1.2    The proposed Rural Sector Support Program would seek to achieve the above objective through
transfer of adequate financial and technical resources to provide the technology, infrastructure, support
services, and institutional capacity that are required for faster growth in the rural economy. It would take
long-term efforts to effect any significant progress towards these objectives. For instance, Rwanda would
have to start almost from scratch to develop support systems for productive activities in rural areas.
Furthermore, the necessary transition from subsistence-based agriculture, in which the large majority of
Rwandese farmers are currently involved, to market-oriented production would require the adjustment of
production and consumption patterns as well as current technical practices. As productivity and output
would grow and farmers would move from household consumption to production of surpluses for the
market, distribution systems would unfold, inducing new production and consumption choices for both
agricultural and consumer goods, thereby creating productive opportunities for economic agents within and
outside of the agricultural sector. These institutional and technological changes represent evolutionary
processes, the pace and structure of which are not fully predictable, given that the dynamics of Rwanda's
rural sector, much like that of many other developing countries, are not well understood and documented.
Moreover, clear and proven models and approaches of intervention to effect the implied transitions are not
available. All these limit the possibility of detailed ex-ante planning and design of the program of
intervention. Hence, the strong need for a long-term orientation, flexibility and adjustability in terms of the
time frame and structure of the support to be provided.
1.3    Accordingly, the proposed support program would cover a time period of 14 years and would be
implemented in three main phases:
* Phase I: 2001-2005: The emphasis during this initial phase would be on building the institutional
and technical capacities that are needed to support the generation and adoption of efficient cropping
and post-harvest technologies and hence launch the intensification process.
* Phase II: 2006-2011: During the intermediary phase, the program would deepen and broaden its
- 3 -



support in order to accelerate the pace of intensification and commercialization of agricultural
production.
*  Phase III: 2012-2017: The final phase of the program would seek to utilize the stimulus resulting
from faster growth in agricultural production to promote the diversification of economic activities in
the rural areas and expand the productive employment of available resources.
1 .4    The proposed staggered approach would allow the program to expand its activities as experience is
accumulated, the understanding of the working of the different systems in the rural economy expands, and
the targeted beneficiaries develop new skills, adjust to new challenges, and exploit new opportunities. The
incremental approach reduces risk and raises the likelihood of successful outcomes, as subsequent phases
of the program are designed and implemented on the basis of lessons learned and results achieved from
preceding activities.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
2.1    The development objective of Phase I of the program is to equip farmers, other target private sector
operator groups, and the relevant government institutions with the basic institutional and technical
capacities that should lay the groundwork for subsequent productivity-raising interventions in the areas of:
(a) agricultural services delivery systems; (b) small-scale rural infrastructure development and
maintenance; (c) rehabilitation of marshland and hill-side farming; (d) promotion of traditional and
alternative export agriculture, and (e) diversification of economic activities in the off-farm sector of the
rural areas. Although capacity-strengthening will be the focus of the first phase, activities will be initiated
in each of the above five areas in order to support ongoing economic recovery strategies and provide the
opportunity for hands-on learning.
3. Global objective: (see Annex 1)
3.1    The primary objective of the related GEF operation of the RSP is the conservation and sustainable
use of natural resources through the integrated management of critical ecosystems, with emphasis on:
*   Wetlands/watershed management;
*   Dryland ecosystem management; and
*   Reducing pressure on the Protected Areas through community-based management of the buffer
zones (which presently only exist around Nyungwe Forest) and areas adjacent to the protected
areas (mountain ecosystems).
3.2    This objective would be accomplished through:
*   the development of an enabling environment for sustainable resource use. GEF resources
would initially focus on the conservation and wise use of wetland ecosystems. During the
implementation of the RSSP and the GEF-supported components, policy, regulatory and
institutional gaps and requirements for the conservation and sustainable management of other
critical ecosystems, particularly dryland and mountain ecosystems, would be identified;
*   development and implementation of community-based integrated management plans for critical
ecosystems (wetland, dryland and mountain ecosystems). The promotion and introduction of
better land husbandry techniques, including improved cropping and livestock systems, soil and
- 4 -



water conservation, and integrated plant nutrient systems will be important elements of the
management plans;
* creation of an Environment Information System (EIS) and a program for monitoring physical,
ecological, and socio-economic changes in critical ecosystems of Rwanda; and
*   capacity-building and institutional strengthening at Central, Prefecture, and Local levels in
integrated natural resources management.
4. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
4.1   Indicators of progress towards the achievement of the program's objectives would document the
effectiveness of program activities in reducing poverty through intensification and commercialization of
agricultural production and diversification of the rural economy. There are two groups of indicators: a
first group, that applies to the entire life of the program; and a second, that consists of complementary
indicators that are added as the program activities are expanded and intensified over its three phases. The
first set of indicators would include: (a) the change, compared to the baseline, in the average level of
household incomes; (b) the change in the percentage of population under the poverty line; (c) the change in
the average level of crop yields per hectare; and (d) and the change in the average returns per labor unit in
the project areas.
4.2    The additional set of indicators is presented in Table 1 below. For Phase 1, the indicators would
document the extent to which the program has succeeded in strengthening the institutional and technical
capacities of beneficiary groups and targeted central government services and local administrations. They
would include:  (a) the number of farmer organizations [(Farmer Agricultural Services Delivery
Organizations (FASDO)] that have been created and that operate satisfactorily; (b) the number of Private
Agribusiness Services Delivery Organizations (PASDO) that have been promoted; (c) the total area of
rehabilitated and adequately exploited farmed-marshlands and hillsides; (d) the number of production,
post-harvest, and marketing infrastructure units that have been created; (e) the total units and types of
Appropriate Means of Rural Transport (AMT) that are introduced and disseminated under the project; (f)
the numbers of production and post-harvest units that have been created; and (g) the quantities of exported
non-traditional export crops.
4.3    At the beginning of Phase 11, another sub-set of indicators would be added to capture the impact of
program activities on production performance. They would include the change, against the baseline, in: (a)
the quantities of modern inputs used per capita and per hectare; (b) the quantities and shares of marketed
crop outpult per household; (c) the level of average crop yields on rehabilitated farmed marshland and
hill-sides areas; (d) the unit costs per hectare of export crops targeted by the program; (e) the level of
output of export crops targeted by the program. A final sub-set of indicators would be added to Phase III
of the program and would document the success that has been achieved in diversifying productive activities
in the rural areas of Rwanda. They would include: (i) the change against the baseline of the number of
people employed in off-farmn activities; and (ii) the change in the level of incomes generated through
off-farm activities in the rural areas.
-5 -



Table 1: Program Performance Indicators
PERFORMANCE f                  TARGET INDICATOR VALUES                           MONITORING
INDICATORS I                                                                         AND
___________ 0      S55  00:                                       :EVALUATION
Phase I: 2001-2004      Phase II:           Phase III:
2005-2009          2010-2014
(a) Quarterly project
Create institutional,    Accelerate the    Promote the    progress reports;
technical, and    intensification and    diversification of
infrastructural    commercialization of economic activities in (b) Supervision
capacities that are   agricultural       rural areas and   reports;
needed to support the   production.         expand the
generation and                           productive      (c) Evaluation reports;
adoption of efficient                     employment of
cropping and                        available resources. (d) Reports based on
post-harvest                                           updates of the baseline
technologies.                                          rural household survey
at the end of Phases 1,
I1, and III.
1. Number of               500                1,000               1,000
supported farmer
organizations
(FASDOs)
2. Number of                80                  60                  40
supported Private
Agribusiness Services
Delivery
Organizations
(PASDOs)
3. The total area of    4,000 (ha)          8,000 (ha)          8,000 (ha)
rehabilitated farmed
marshlands
4. The total area of    2,000 (ha)          5,000 (ha)          5,000 (ha)
rehabilitated farmed
hillsides
5. The total units of       18                  20                  20
marketing facilities
that have been
constructed
6. Appropriate       Successfully pilot    Disseminated       Broadly adopted
Means of Rural            tested
Transport (IMT)
7. The increase in       [50 (%)]             100 (%)            200 (%)
the quantities of
modem inputs used
per capita and per
hectare
-6 -



8. The increase in         [50 (%)]               100 (%)              200 (%)
the quantities and
shares of marketed
crop output per
household
9. The increase in         [50 (%)]               100 (%)              200 (%)
the average crop
yields on farned
marshland / hillsides
10. The decrease in        [10 (%)I               25 (%)                50 (%)
the unit costs per
hectare of export
crops
11. The increase in        [25 (%)]               S0 (%)               25 (%)
quantities of coffee
and tea exports
12. The increase in        [100 (%)3             [50 (%)]               50 (%)
the exported
quantities of
alternative crops
13. The increase in        [10 (%)3              [20 (%)]               50 (%)
the number of people
employed in off-farm
activities
14. The increase in        [10 (0 )]             [20 (%)]               50 (%)
the incomes
generated through
off-farm activities
Note:   Square brackets indicate that the indicators would be computed for the corresponding phases but would not weigh
strongly in the evaluation of these phases. The reason is that the time lag in the response of the productive sectors to the
policies, incentives, and technical and institutional support that are provided under the program is expected to delay their full
impact until later stages in the life of the Program.
-7-



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA\R98-30               Date of latest CAS discussion: April 7, 1998
Progress Report: IDA\R99-135/1 dated June 29, 1999
1.1    The CAS goal supported by the project over the transition period is the revitalization of the rural
economy to increase rural incomes, reduce poverty, strengthen farming communities, and reinforce national
stability. Bank-focused themes relevant to the project include: (a) sustainable increases in agricultural
productivity, provision of social and economic infrastructure, and improved operation of rural markets; (b)
investment in human resource development and capacity building, and development of a skilled labor force;
(c) support policy and regulatory reforms in addition to selected infrastructure investments in order to
promote private sector trade and investment, and improve Rwanda's competitiveness; and (d) improve
donor coordination and resource mobilization.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
Ia. 1   According to the Ramsar Convention definition, wetlands of international importance are
wetlands which are important for the conservation of global biological diversity and for sustaining human
life through the ecological and hydrological functions they perform". The ecology, botany, zoology,
limnology and hydrology, and their significance as a habitat for migratory birds are important
considerations. Despite its small size, Rwanda is characterized by a large and diverse variety of habitats
and species. Some 2,150 species of plant life are thought to exist and, while the number of endemics is not
known, it is believed to be high. Many of the continent's rare wildlife species also occur in the country
among which are 16 species of primates, including the mountain gorilla (Gorilla gorilla beringei), small
populations of elephants and black rhino, and a large number of birds. Two of Rwanda's most biologically
significant habitats are the montane forests and wetlands. Most of the country's remaining forests are
located between altitudes of 1700 to 3000 meters on the divide between the Nile and the Congo basins. One
extensive forest is located within the Volcanoes National Park. This Park, in combination with adjacent
forests in Uganda and Congo, contain approximately one-half of the world's total remaining population of
mountain gorillas. Rwanda's other Protected Areas are the Akagera National Park and Nyungwe Forest
Reserve. Nyungwe Forest is vital for the protection of a number of endangered species, including the
chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes schweinfurthi), the black and white colobes (Colobus angolensis
ruwenzorii), the guenon (Cercopithecus spp.), the leopard (Panthera pardus). the serval (Leptailurus
serval) and some 13 species of endangered orchids.
I a.2   At present, no wetlands outside the Protected Areas are formally protected as reserves.
Approximately 60,000 ha of wetlands are located within the Akagera National Park, and some small
wetland areas within Nyungwe Forest. A study carried out, for the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Resources and Forests, by SOGREAH Ingenieurs Conseils in 1989-1992, to develop a Master Plan for the
management of the Nyabarongo and Akanyaru Rivers (Etude du Plan Directeur d'Amenagement et de Mise
en Valeur des Vallees de la Nyabarongo et de l'Akanyaru, carried out by SOGREAH 1989-1992)
identified four zones (six sites) of global significance for priority protection because of their richness in
flora, fauna and fish biodiversity, important ecological functions such as water regulation and drainage,
importance as a habitat for fish spawning and migratory birds (Rwanda is on the African-Eurasian flyway
for migratory waterbirds), and/or as an area of exceptional natural beauty.  Because of the civil
disturbances in 1994, these recommendations have yet to be implemented.
- 8 -



1 a.3   The formulation of a National Wetlands Policy (with GEF resources) would be an important step
in the conservation and sustainable utilization of Rwanda's wetlands. A policy would:
* provide a broad national framework for the sustainable management of wetland resources;
* reflect a consensus for coordinated action by the various stakeholders;
* serve as a tool for action; and
* ensure government commitment at the political level because it is adopted by Cabinet and
Parliament.
la.4   GEF iFunds would play a catalytic role in linking sectoral ministries responsible for different
aspects of natural resources management, developing an enabling policy and regulatory environment,
promoting broad-based stakeholder participation, strengthening human resource and institutional
capacities, promoting an integrated ecosystem approach to the management of natural resources, and
financing those actitivies that would provide global benefits. GEF would furthermore provide a critical link
between the RSP, ADB Master Plan, and other donor initiatives. Through activities that are oriented
towards promoting the sustainable management of upland watersheds, conservation and sustainable use of
the wetlands, alleviating land and water degradation and, conserving biodiversity, the project will
contribute to the protection of critical ecosystems.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Macroeconomic and Sectoral Strategic Options
2.1    The Government of Rwanda, with the assistance of the World Bank and the International Monetary
Fund, has cornpleted a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) in October 1999, outlining its objectives for the
medium-term and laying out the framework for an adjustment program which is being supported by the
Bank's ongoing Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), and the Fund's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF). One of the main components of the ERC is the revitalization of the agricultural and rural
economy. Furthermore, the Government has recently completed an interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
(PRSP), which will guide future Bank and Fund intervention in the country. The rural development
component oiF the PRSP confirms the Government's strategic choice of revitalizing the rural economy
through intensification and commercialization of agricultural production and diversification of economic
activities in the rural areas. It also confirms its commitment to create and maintain an enabling policy
environment for the development of a market-oriented agricultural system through reforms in the
institutional, regulatory, and incentives framework as well as its strategy to promote export competitiveness
through further liberalization of the trade, exchange, and investment regimes.
The Rural Development Problem in Rwanda
2.2    The rural development problem in Rwanda has been described in great details in the 1998 Bank
report on Agricultural Intensification in Rwanda. According to the report, the combination of rapid
population growth with limited availability of agricultural land has resulted in the following set of problems
in Rwanda's rural sector: (a) increasing labor intensity and declining labor productivity in the agricultural
sector; (b) strong subsistence orientation of agricultural production, reinforced by weak commodity and
labor markets; (c) the resulting pressure on local off-farn employment and wages; and (d) declining
incomes and a fragile food security situation. These problems reinforce each other as limited market
orientation reduces the incentives for technology innovation, which is necessary to raise labor productivity
and incomes. Using the results from two major household-level studies carried out in the late eighties by
the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) and Michigan State University (MSU), the report
- 9-



shows that the relative lack of market orientation among Rwandese farmers is due as much to production
constraints as it is linked to constraints on the demand side. These constraints emanate from: (i)
production conditions which encourage household consumption over market transaction, given the low
opportunity cost of labor and the fact that most food crops can be grown in many parts of the country; (ii)
a production structure which includes very few cash crops that are grown over wide areas and, therefore,
fails to stimulate a broad supply of marketing services or foster the integration of smallholders into the
market process; (iii) a low rate of urbanization, which means that there are few significant deficit areas to
generate the excess demand to stimulate supplies from potential surplus areas; and (iv) insecure access to
markets, which undermines trading as a reliable measure to cope with food insecurity and encourages a
tendency to autarchy as a rationale response.
The Strategic Objectives and Choices for Accelerated Rural Growth
2.3    The Bank report also suggests that the supply-side measures that build the core of the government
strategy, such as raising the average farm size, decreasing the person-to-land ratio, or promoting access to
fertilizer, would not by themselves lead to sustained increases in the rate of intensification, even though
they are an important part of the solution. The level of investment in technical innovation that is necessary
for sustained intensification and productivity increases depends on the rate of commercialization, i.e., the
pace at which additional output can be absorbed through local and foreign markets to yield returns that are
high enough to induce continued investment in better technologies. Hence, it is impossible to achieve such
high rates of growth without greater market participation by Rwandan smallholder farmers. The strategic
choices for Rwanda's agricultural sector should, therefore, be guided by the need to: (a) reduce the
incentives among smallholders for autarchy by encouraging production for the market and reducing the risk
of relying on the market to satisfy food consumption needs; (b) alleviate the domestic demand constraints
associated with the current production structure and trading systems; and (c) raise the rate of adoption of
improved inputs.
2.4    The challenge to implement a market-based rural development strategy in the context of an
essentially subsistence-oriented agricultural sector is considerable. However, it is evident that increased
commercialization of agricultural production and greater export orientation are the best ways to achieve
sufficiently high growth rates, not only in agriculture, but also in the rest of the rural sector and the overall
economy, and, thereby, achieve sustained poverty alleviation in Rwanda. The Bank's 1998 Poverty
Assessment Report estimates the per capita growth rate that would be necessary to bring poverty down to
its level of the mid-eighties by the year 2012 at 5 percent. With a growth rate of 7 percent, the level of
poverty would be cut by about half. There is ample evidence in the development literature, which indicates
that the maximum achievable long-term rate of growth under subsistence agriculture is between I percent
and 2 percent. As a comparison, the rate of growth of the index of agricultural production in Rwanda was
0.8 percent between 1975 and 1984, falling to -2.2 percent between 1985 and 1989 and -6.7 between 1990
and 1996. Increased market orientation is, therefore, seen by the Government of Rwanda as the central
element of its rural growth and poverty alleviation strategy.
- 10 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1    The analysis of the rural development problem in Rwanda suggests that the entry points of the
strategy to foster broad-based growth in Rwanda's rural sector over the next 10-15 years should be: (a)
expansion of existing industrial crops (coffee and tea); (b) promotion of alternative high-value smallholder
crops; and (c) intensification of existing food crop systems. The above should be accompanied by the
following subsidiary short-term objectives (within 5 years): (i) to restore competitiveness in the production
and trading systems in the coffee and tea sectors; and (ii) to expand domestic and foreign outlets for high
demand elasticity crops as well as existing potentially tradable food crops, such as rice, horticulture, and
floriculture. In the medium- to long-run, non-farm productive sectors should be promoted to exploit the
stimulus effect arising from a revitalized and faster growing agriculture sector.
3.2    The Ministry of Agriculture has recently completed extensive work on the formulation of its
agricultural strategy.  The strategy reflects a clear shift from  the past narrow  approach of food
self-sufficiency towards greater market-orientation, underpinned by intensification in input use,
diversification and specialization in agricultural production. In general, the agricultural strategy includes
the following major components: (a) investment in the rehabilitation of productive infrastructure; (b)
rebuilding of the institutional structure of agricultural extension and research; (c) complete restructuring of
the input provision services; (d) support to farmer groups to become stronger partners in the generation and
dissemination of cropping technologies and in improving the operation of input distribution and output
marketing systems; (e) promotion of regional specialization in production; (f) rehabilitation of traditional
export crops and diversification of exports; (g) restoration and conservation of soil fertility; and (h)
promotion of peri-urban agriculture.
3.3    Because of the tremendous population pressure, there is hardly any undeveloped land outside the
Protected Areas and wetlands. The rural population has had no choice but to cultivate increasingly larger
areas of these wetlands, which has been done in a haphazard manner with little regard for ecological
balance and has caused adverse environmental impacts. There have also been numerous reports about
changes in micro-climates of some of the watersheds after the natural vegetation has been cleared. Even
the large wetland areas, thought to be of international significance because of the important ecological role
they play in water regulation and as important habitats and sources of biodiversity, are under threat. These
areas, although not formally protected as reserves, were considered to be somewhat impenetrable because
of their size and inaccessibility. Recent events, however, have led to encroachment into the fringes of these
wetlands and, in some cases, incursions into larger areas that were previously considered inaccessible. If
these developments continue at their current pace and unregulated manner, in addition to the tremendous
loss of biodiversity, they pose a serious threat to national and international water resources.
Issues Being Addressed under the Ongoing Agricultural and Rural Market Development
Project
3.4    The Agricultural and Rural Market Development Project (ARMDP), which became effective on
December 30, 1999, was prepared to address the constraints related to the deficiencies in local input
distribution and output marketing systems, including the access to credit for modem farm inputs.
ARMDP's main objective is to contribute to the revitalization of Rwanda's agricultural and rural economy
by successfully identifying policies and institutional mechanisms to:  (a) promote efficient, private
sector-based local agricultural input distribution and output marketing systems in order to: (b) raise
modem farm input use among farmers. It does this by testing alternative approaches to: (i) facilitate
access by farmers to credit for modem farm inputs; (ii) provide technical advisory services to farmers on
the use of modem farm inputs; (iii) encourage the emergence of a sustainable modem input import and
- 1 1 -



distribution system; and (iv) encourage investments by private traders in marketing services in rural areas.
The project is organized in two major components, each of which is made up of sub-components
regrouping mutually reinforcing sets of activities. The first component focuses on the demonstration of
effective and replicable mechanisms to: a) significantly and sustainably raise modem farm input use
among farmers; and b) expand and strengthen the nascent private sector-based input import and
distribution systems. The second component seeks to: c) provide an incentive framework as well as
technical advisory services that are conducive to greater market orientation among small-holders; d)
encourage private sector investment in marketing services; and e) provide the technical and institutional
support to raise the efficiency and reduce unit costs in rural marketing systems.
Issues to be Addressed under the Proposed Rural Sector Support Program
3.5    The above project (ARMDP) is a pilot activity and deals primarily with the market-related
constraints of the rural development problem. The existence of efficiently operating input distribution and
output marketing systems is a critical precondition for the solution of the technological and sustainability
issues that are associated with the government's long-term objectives of intensification, commercialization,
and diversification. ARMDP became effective more than a year ago and will have been active for about
two years by the time the implementation of the currently proposed project begins. It is anticipated that it
will have produced initial impacts on the quality of local market operations as well as provided workable
solutions as to how to eliminate the remaining deficiencies in this area. Moreover, ARMDP deals
predominantly with food crops. The proposed Rural Sector Support Program (RSP) would: (a) expand
ARMDP's successful activities with respect to the removal of the remaining market-related constraints; and
(b) extend its interventions to include traditional and alternative export crops. RSP would also address
other dimensions of the rural development equations that were not being targeted under ARMDP, that is:
(c) the development of demand responsive and sustainable agricultural services systems in order to
sufficiently generate and effectively disseminate adequate cropping and post-harvest technologies; (d) the
rehabilitation of marshland and hill-side areas that are currently under farming in order to fully exploit the
productivity potential and ensure sustainability of fanning practices in these areas; (e) remove the
bottlenecks in local transport systems, which in the medium terms are expected to pose significant
constraints to the expansion of output and increase in the intensification of agricultural production; and
finally (f) foster the development of non-farm productive activities in the rural areas.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
Overview of Overall Program
4.1    The proposed overall program would consist of three consecutive phases to be implemented over a
period of 14 years. The initial phase would go from Year I to Year 4 and is described in greater detail in
Section C. Phase I would focus primarily on building the institutional and technical capacities that are
needed to support the generation and adoption of efficient agricultural production and post-harvest
technologies. The strengthening of these capacities would lay the groundwork for subsequent program
activities. The institutional and technical support that is provided during this phase would be coupled with
initial investment activities to provide the opportunity for hands-on learning and experimentation on the
side of the target beneficiary groups and institutions. It would, therefore, include financial assistance
through matching grants to promote investment in agricultural production and other agribusiness activities.
Based on the results of Phase 1, the second phase of the program, from Year 5 to Year 9, would extend and
deepen the institutional and technical support and raise the investment activities in order to accelerate the
pace of intensification and commercialization of agricultural production. Once the pace of agricultural
growth starts accelerating, the third and final phase of the program, which would go from Year 10 to Year
- 12 -



14, would implement activities to promote the diversification of economic activities in the rural areas and
expand the productive employment of available resources.
4.2    The initial phase of the program would concentrate on strengthening the institutional and technical
capacities of the primary target groups and institutions that will participate in the implementation of
program activities. These include: (a) farmer groups, (b) private sector operators that intervene in
agribusiness and other areas of rural development; (c) private R&D institutions; (d) local administrations
and community groups; and (e) the lead research and extension institutions. The objective of this phase is
to lay the necessary groundwork for the introduction of expanded activities in subsequent stages of the
program to: (i) establish effective and sustainable agricultural services delivery systems; and (ii) develop
practical infrastructure improvement and maintenance arrangements. These two sets of activities would
build the core of the program to which targeted sub-sector-specific interventions would be added to: (iii)
improve and sustain the efficiency of production in currently farmed marshlands and hill-side areas; (iv)
raise the competitiveness of the export crop sector; and (v) stimulate employment and income generation in
the off-farm sector. The entire Phase I of the program would be composed of seven components, including
a program support and coordination component with an integrated monitoring and evaluation unit.
4.3    Phase One would include the following components, with the following main objectives:
Rehabilitation of farmed Marshland and Hillside Areas: The objective under this component would
be to empower: (i) beneficiary farmers to efficiently manage marshland/hill-side cropping and livestock
activities and promote the adoption of improved soil, water and fertility conservation techniques; and
(ii) private operators to intervene in land and water infrastructure construction and maintenance;
Integrated Management of Critical Ecosystems: The Program's objective under this component
would be to strengthen the capacity of local communities to effectively manage critical ecosystems.
This component would be a GEF-funded activity to be prepared and implemented by MINITERE;
Promotion of Commercial and Export Agriculture This component would seek to develop export
crop agriculture through facilitation of access to investment capital and strengthening of capacities of
farmers and exporters in order to raise the productivity and competitiveness of Rwanda's export
sectors;
Support to Agricultural Services Delivery Systems: The Program's objective under this component
is to strengthen the capacities of agricultural research and extension systems in order to generate and
extend improved technologies to farmers and enhance the delivery of services; given the very weak
capacities in the research systems, the first phase would include the: (i) rebuilding of ISAR's research
and analytical capacities; (ii) training of scientists; and (iii) building the capacities of lead research and
extension services to involve farmers and private operators in the generation and dissemination of
cropping and post-harvest technologies;
Small-scale Infrastructure Development: This component's objective is to strengthen the capacities
of: (i) local communities to prepare and supervise small-scale infrastructure sub-projects; (ii) private
sector operators to construct and maintain such infrastructure; (iii) farmners and other private sector
operators to acquire transport equipment and post-harvest infrastructure; and (iv) water management
infrastructure to improve agricultural productivity.
- 13 -



Promotion of Off-farm Productive Activities in Rural Areas: The activities under this component
should lead to higher levels of off-farm employment and incomes in the program areas, in particular,
and in rural areas, in general. During the first phase of the program, the objective would be to develop
strategies and implement pilot activities during the first phase, which can be scaled up in subsequent
phases to generate higher levels of off-farm employment and incomes in the program areas, in
particular, and in rural areas, in general;
Program  Support and  Coordination:   Given the decentralized and participatory mode of
implementation that is proposed for the Program, the main objective under this component would be to:
(i) ensure effective monitoring and evaluation of program activities throughout the implementation of
the program; and (ii) ensure effective coordination between, and support to, the various implementing
agencies and beneficiary groups given the decentralized and participatory mode of implementation that
is proposed for the Program.
Performance Trigger for Subsequent Loans
4.4    The Rural Sector Support Program is designed to cover a time period of 14 years and to be
implemented in three main phases. The transitions from one phase to the next will be determnined based on
the performance of the program during each phase. The performance can be represented by a set of
indicators which will be monitored and evaluated during the course of the program. These evolutionary
processes are expected to allow the program to expand its activities as experience is accumulated, the
understanding of the working of the different systems in the rural economy expands, and the targeted
beneficiaries develop new skills, adjust to new changes, and exploit new opportunities.
Assessment Criteria and Trigger Indicators
4.5    The assessment criteria for transition to the subsequent credits and measurable triggers would be
as follow.
4.6    Rehabilitation of Farmed Marshland and Hill-side Areas. The overall performance criteria
under this component is the effectiveness in: (i) establishing ownership and achieving full participation in
project implementation on the part of local administrations; (ii) building trust between the latter and
beneficiary groups around project activities; and (iii) strengthening farmer capacities to efficiently exploit
the rehabilitated areas. It is expected that the program implementation would demonstrate by the end of
Phase I and maintain throughout Phase II:
(a)     effective commitment on the part of local administrations to work with the Program
Coordination and Management Unit to implement project activities; and
(b)     adequate capacity of beneficiary farmers to maintain and manage water and soil
management infrastructure and adopt new technologies to raise and sustain cropping
efficiency on marshlands and hill-side areas.
Consequently, the triggers for subsequent credits under this component would be:
(i)     the total area of rehabilitated farmed marshlands reaches 4,000 ha and 8,000 ha at the end
of phases I and II, respectively;
(ii)    the total area of rehabilitated hill-side areas reaches 2,000 ha and 5,000 ha at the end of
- 14 -



phases I and II, respectively; and
(iii)   the average crop yields on rehabilitated marshland/hillsides are 100 percent higher than
the baseline at the end of Phase I.
4.7   Integrated Management of Critical Ecosystems (GEF Component). The RSP provides an
opportunity for restoring some of the key functions of wetlands and the associated catchment areas. The
catchment areas not only replenish water to the wetlands but also serve as a repository for renewable
natural resources and sanctuary for biodiversity, including some of the rare and endangered species. This
calls for catchment area/ecosystem approach to ensure that all the key factors which are likely to influence
production are included in the project implementation process. Such a process would also ensure that the
key stakeholders are involved in the implementation process.  Critical ecosystem can be defined in two
ways. The overall performance criteria under this component is the effectiveness in: (i) maintaining the
critical ecosystems which support other production systems; (ii) improving the buffering capacity of the
critical ecosystems, such as watersheds, so as to ensure steady water flows throughout the year. This will
in turn guarantee continued productivity of the rehabilitated hillsides and the marshlands; and (iii)
maintaining those ecosystems that support part of the lifecycle of endangered or globally threatened species
of flora and fauna.  It is expected that the program  implementation under this component would
demonstrate the following:
(a)    restored capacity of the wetlands and hillsides for production while enhancing other
ecological and environmental benefits;
(b)     negative effects on transboundary water resources minimized;
(c)    bio-diversity conservation in both natural and modified environments enhanced; and
(d)    increased capacity and commitment of the relevant institutions to effectively monitor the
state of the critical ecosystem.
The specific indicators to measure the above and thus trigger for subsequent credits are that:
(i)    the percentage of the catchment area which is set aside or designated as buffer zones;
(ii)    the stability of water flows improved by X percent and maintained at Y percent higher
than the baseline;
(iii)    species diversity and richness X percent higher than the baseline by the end of phases I
and II; and
(iv)    the number of people who practice sustainable resource use are X percent higher that the
baseline in phase 1.
The above component would be implemented by MINITERE and MINAGRI through a GEF grant. The
RSP would serve as a baseline for the GEF operation. The above activities and indicators would be
finalized by MINITERE, who would work with MINAGRI to complete the preparation of the operation by
the time RSP becomes effective. The exact indicator values will be specified at that stage.
- 15 -



4.8    Promotion of Commercial and Export Agriculture The overall performance criteria under this
component is the effectiveness of the financial and technical support that is provided in: (i) filling the gap
created by the withdrawal of OCIR-THE and OCIR-CAFE; and (ii) encouraging the production of
alternative export crops. The support would be demonstrated during Phase I and would continue to
demonstrate during Phase II:
(a)     adequate financial and technical results by Commercial Enterprises and Technical
Support Entities(CETSEs); and
(b)     capacity of export crop farmers to adopt improved cropping practices and achieve better
output results.
The specific indicators to measure the above and thus the triggers for subsequent credits under this
component are that:
(i)     crop incomes of farmers assisted by CETSEs are 20 percent and 50 percent higher than
the baseline by the end of phases I and II, respectively.
(ii)    the unit cost per hectare of export crops among beneficiary farmers are 1 0 percent and 25
percent lower than the baseline by the end of phases I and II, respectively; and
(iii)   the total output of export crops in the project areas is 25 percent and 50 percent higher
than the baseline by the end of phases I and II, respectively.
4.9    Support to Agricultural Services Delivery Systems. The overall performance criteria under this
component is whether demand-responsive agricultural research and extension systems have been
successfully established. To that effect, the Program would demonstrate by the end of Phase I and sustain
throughout Phase II:
(a)     adequate capacities of lead agricultural research and extension services to meaningfully
involve farmers and private operators in the generation and dissemination of farming and
post-harvest technologies;
(b)     adequate capacity of farmer organizations and private sector operators to efficiently
participate in the delivery of agricultural services; and
(c)     satisfaction of beneficiary farmers with the performance of FASDOs and PASDOs.
The following indicators would be used for verification and would constitute the triggers for
subsequent credits under this component:
(i)     the number of FASDOs supported under the project reaches 1,000 and 3,000 at the end
of phases I and II, respectively; and
(ii)    the number of PASDOs supported under the project reaches 80 and 60 at the end of
phases I and II, respectively.
- 16 -



4.10   Small-Scale Rural Infrastructure Development. The overall performance criteria under this
component is the effectiveness of the institutional and financial support that is provided in raising the
quality of post-harvest and transport infrastructure and equipment among beneficiary communities. The
performance criteria at the end of Phase I and throughout Phase II are, accordingly, the continued
demonstration of:
(a)     adequate capacity of Local Administrations (LAs) to successfully plan and supervise the
construction and maintainance of transport infrastructure; and
(b)     effective utilization of matching grant funds by farmer organizations to acquire
Appropriate Means of Rural Transport (AMTs).
The corresponding indicators to be used as triggers for subsequent credits under the component
are, therefore, the following:
(i)     the total number of constructed marketing facilities reaches 18 and 20 at the end of
phases I and ll, respectively; and
(ii)    Appropriate Means of Rural Transport (AMT) have been successfully introduced under
phase I and disseminated under phase II.
4.11   Program Monitoring and Evaluation. The overall performance criteria under this component is
the effectiveness of the activity monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. The transition to subsequent
credits would be considered on the basis of:
(a)     the timeliness and quality of evaluation reports; and
(b)     the maintenance of a well documented M&E data base.
The associated triggers for subsequent credits under this component are the following:
(i)     adequate frequency of evaluation throughout phases I and II; and
(ii)    availability of up-to-date output and outcome indicators for all project activities at the end
of phases I and II.
- 17-



Performance Triggers for Subsequent Loans
Table 2: Performance Triggers for Phases II and HI
Assessmet Citeria                  Triggeri Indicat3ors             Means0; o9f Vri*tioefq0l0
1. Rehabilitation of Farmed
Marshland and Hill-side Areas
Effectiveness in:                i) The total area of rehabilitated    a) Updated Baseline Rural Sector
1) Establishing ownership and    farmed marshlands reaches 4,000  Survey at the end of Phases I and
achieving full participation in  ha and 8,000 ha at the end of     II
project implementa- tion on the    Phases I and II, respectively;
part of local administrations;                                     b) Impact study at the end of
ii) The total area of rehabilitated   Phases I and II
2) Building trust between the    hillside areas reaches 2,000 ha and
latter and beneficiary groups    5,000 ha at the end of Phases I    c) Evaluation reports
around project activities; and   and II, respectively; and
3) Strengthening farmer           iii) The average crop yields on
capacities to efficiently exploit the farmed marshland/hillsides are
rehabilitated areas.              100% higher than the baseline at
the end of Phase II.
2. Integrated Management of
Critical Ecosystems
1) Increased capacity of critical  i) The percentage of rehabilitated  a) Updated baseline survey of
ecosystems to support production  wetlands which are designated as  critical ecosystems
while enhancing other ecological   buffer zones;
and environmental benefits;                                        b) Impact studies at the end of
ii) The stability of water flows  Phase I
2) Increased capacity and         improved by x%oI and maintained
commitment of the relevant        at y% higher that the baseline;  c) Evaluation reports
institutions and local communities
to effectively monitor the state of  iii) Species diversity and richness
the critical ecosystem.           x% higher that the baseline by the
end of Phases I and II;
I/ This component is to be implemented under
the GEF operation which is currently being
finalized by MINITERE in collaboration with  iii) Number of people who
MINAGRJ. The indicator values will be  practice sustainable resource use
specified after completion of the preparation
of the operation.                X% higher that the baselme m
Phase I.
- 18 -



3. Promotion of Commercial and
Export Agriculture
i) Crop incomes of farmers    a) Updated Baseline Rural Sector
1) The financial and technical    assisted by CETSEs are are 50%   Survey at the end of Phases I and
support effectively: (i) fills the gap higher than the baseline by the end II
created by the withdrawal of  of Phase II;
OCIR-THE and OCIR-CAFE;                                      b) Impact study at the end of
and (ii) encourages the production ii) The total output of export crops Phases I and II
of alternative export crops.  in the project areas is 50% higher
than the baseline by the end of    c) Evaluation reports
Phase II.
4. Support to Agricultural
Services Delivery Systems
1) Establishment of           i) Number of Farmer Agricultural a) Updated Baseline Rural Sector
demand-responsive agricultural   Services Delivery Organizations   Survey at the end of Phases I and
research and extension systems.  (FASDOs) reaches 1,500 and    II
1,000 at the end of Phases I and
II, respectively; and         b) Impact study at the end of
Phases I and II
ii) Number of PASDOs supported
under the project reaches 80 and   c) Evaluation reports
60 at the end of Phases I and II,
respectively.
5. Small-Scale Rural
Infrastructure Development
1) Effectiveness of institutional   i) The total number of constructed a) Updated Baseline Rural Sector
and financial support to raise the  marketing facilities reaches 18 and Survey at the end of Phases I and
quality of post-harvest and   20 in Phases I and II, respectively; II
transport infrastructure and  and
equipment.                                                   b) Impact study at the end of
ii) Alternative Appropriate Means Phases I and II
of Rural Transport (AMT) have
been succesfully pilot-tested  c) Evaluation reports
during Phase I and disseminated
during Phase II.
- 19 -



6. Promotion of Off-farm
Productive Activities in Rural
Areas
i) The number of people employed a) Updated Baseline Rural Sector
1) Readiness of beneficiary CDCs in off-farm activities is y% higher Survey at the end of Phases I and
to implement off-farn sector  than the baseline at the end of    II
development strategies.       Phase II;
b) Impact study at the end of
ii) The income generated through  Phases I and II
off-farm activities are y% higher
than the baseline at the end of    c) Evaluation reports
Phase II.
7. Program Monitoring and
Evaluation
1) Effectiveness of adopted   i) Existence of a well documented, a) Updated Baseline Rural Sector
monitoring and evaluation     up-to-date, and operational    Survey at the end of Phases I and
mechanisms.                   database of output and outcome   II
indicators;
b) Impact study at the end of
ii) Publication of all monitoring   Phases I and II
and evaluation reports as specified
in the Project Implementation  c) Evaluation reports
Manual (PIM).
-20 -



C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project comlponents (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1.1    Rehabilitation of Farmed Marshland and Hill-side Areas.  The specific objective of this
component would be to establish effective mechanisms to: (a) facilitate the adoption by beneficiary farmers
of efficient and sustainable technologies and practices to profitably manage marshland and hill-side crops;
and (b) encourage and develop the skills of private operators to intervene in land and water infrastructure
construction and maintenance. Currently, about 50 percent of the 165,000 ha marshland in Rwanda are
being farmed. Of these, only 5,000 ha have had any type of improved infrastructure. Figures from
MINAGRI indicate that the infrastructure on 4,000 ha out of the 5,000 ha is in serious need of
rehabilitation. The objective under this part of the program would be to rehabilitate and develop the
infrastructure on 25 percent of the currently farmed marshland, about 20,000 ha, over the 14-year period.
The component would include five sets of activities:
*   financing of small-scale drainage and irrigation infrastructure on farmed marshlands;
* fina,ncing of R&D and infrastructure for soil and natural resources conservation on marshlands
and hill-sides;
*   advisory services on cropping and water management technologies;
*   training of farmer groups and other target private sector operators in construction,
management, and maintenance of land and water conservation infrastructure;
*   institutional support to producer organizations and community groups; and
*   soil fertility restoration measures.
1.2   Integrated Management of Critical Ecosystems.  The Program  would, under its various
components, introduce better land husbandry, including appropriate land use, crop-livestock practices,
improved integrated plant nutrient techniques and make required inputs more accessible to stakeholders.
Since soil fertility problems and land resources degradation have been identified as major reasons for
encroachment into the Protected Areas (PAs) and Forest Reserves (FRs), increased access to inputs and the
introduction of improved soil and water management measures are expected to result in reduced
encroachment. The project will also promote off-farm productive activities in rural areas, which could
alleviate pressure on the land, particularly in critical habitats and areas adjacent to the PAs and FRs. In
addition to the above, the specific objective that is targeted under the current component is to promote the
adoption of improved soil, water and fertility conservation techniques by beneficiary farmers and
strengthen the capacities of local communities to effectively manage critical ecosystems. The component
would include the following set of activities:
* development of an enabling environment for sustainable resource use: policy framework,
regulations, institutional support;
*   development and implementation of community-based integrated management plans for critical
ecosystems (wetlands, drylands, and mountain areas);
*   creation of an Environmental Information System (EIS);
* capacity building and institutional strengthening to support a decentralized integrated
management of natural resources.
The component, would be further developed by MINITERE in collaboration with MINAGRI into a parallel
GEF operation that would be supported by the RSP Program as its baseline operation. The preparation of
- 21 -



the GEF activity would be completed by the time RSP becomes effective.
1.3    Promotion of Commercial and Export Agriculture. This component would seek to empower
traditional export crop farmers to take over the management of all commercial and technical activities that
are currently the responsibility of the two parastatals in the tea and coffee sectors, respectively, OCIR-The
and OCIR-Cafe. The private operators who would eventually acquire the currently state-owned, but soon
to be privatized, factories in the two sub-sectors, are not expected to render the same services without
compromising the commercial independence of private farmners and, hence, future profitability of tea and
coffee production. In addition to tea and coffee, there are ongoing efforts by private operators to develop
new export crops, primarily in the horticulture sector. The efforts to promote commercialization of
agriculture would also target crops that are traded domestically and in regional markets. Under the current
component, support would be provided to farmers that are willing to invest in the production of these new
crops. The support would consist primarily of technical support to farmers on cropping and post-harvest
technologies and facilitation of access to resources for investment in processing and commercial activities.
The planned activities under RSP would focus on:
*   provision of advisory services on production and post-harvest technologies to farmers and
other private sector operators;
*   financing of post-harvest R&D and infrastructure;
*   financing of technical assistance and grants to strengthen the capacities of farmer
organizations; and
*   facilitation of access to financing of productive technologies; and
*   financing of technical assistance and capital investment to establish farmer-owned Commercial
Enterprises and Technical Support Entities (CETSE).
1.4    Support to Agricultural Services Delivery Svstems.  The capacities of current research and
extension institutions to generate and disseminate agricultural technologies are quite weak and need to be
strengthened substantially.   The capacity strengthening would be carried out while taking into
consideration: (a) the government's option for adaptive research; (b) the need to decentralize the system of
services delivery; and (c) the necessity for considerably greater involvement of beneficiaries in the design
and dissemination of farming technologies. Technology generation through adaptive research requires a
minimum level of qualified researchers. There is, accordingly, a need for a critical mass of adequately
trained scientists, covering a sufficiently broad range of disciplines and capable of constituting a sound
interface with International Agricultural Research Centers and Sub-Regional and Regional networks. This
would call for a restructuring of the personnel of the agricultural services institutions with a "rightsizing"
objective. A rapid external evaluation of ISAR has been carried out by appraisal and will be expanded to
other lead R&D institutions and updated regularly during project implementation. The rapid evaluations
would determine the necessary training and re-deployment of existing staff or the recruitment of new staff
to enable the institutions to adequately meet their responsibilities.
Against this background, the program, under the current component, would seek to: (i) restructure and
build the capacities of the lead institutions to acquire internally or externally and adapt relevant
technologies; (ii) strengthen the capacities within the current extension services system to integrate farmer
organizations and private sector operators in the design and implementation of technology dissemination
policies; (iii) empower farmer associations and reinforce the skills of private sector operators involved in
rural development in order to enable both groups to effectively participate in the delivery of research and
extension services. To achieve these objectives, the following activities would be carried out under the
current component:
- 22 -



*   financial and technical assistance to strengthen the capacities of private and restructured lead
public R&D institutions to borrow, adapt, and disseminate improved cropping, conservation,
and post-harvest technologies;
*   financial support and training of farmer organizations on techniques of participatory research
and extension services delivery; and
*   technical assistance to private operators willing to invest in services delivery activities.
1.5    Small-scale Rural Infrastructure Development. Reducing the unit cost of moving goods across
space and over time is as important to the objectives of commercializing and increasing the competitiveness
of Rwanda's agriculture as is the reduction of production costs. Although they do not constitute yet the
most serious obstacle to agricultural output expansion and intensification in Rwanda, it would not be long
before the qua]lity of local transport systems would become a major constraint to efforts of accelerating
growth in the agricultural sector. Hence, the first objective of the current phase would be to upgrade and
expand small-scale transport infrastructure in the rural areas. In addition to poor infrastructure, the rarity
of adequate transport equipment would also significantly limit the potential to stimulate agricultural
production as well as other economic activities in rural areas. Finally, moving crops over time can be as
important as transporting them across space. Current estimates indicate that as much as 25 percent to 30
percent of harvested quantities are lost due to inadequate post-harvest technologies.  Therefore, the
component's second objective would be to facilitate the access to adapted post-harvest infrastructure and
Appropriate Means of Rural Transport (AMT). Given its local specificity, the necessary development and
improvement of transport infrastructure would have to be planned and implemented at the local level.
Furthermore, it would be important to ensure that the AMTs and post-harvest infrastructure that are
introduced can be serviced locally in a technically satisfactory manner. Consequently, the third objective
would be to create the capacities among local communities and in the private sector to construct and/or
maintain the transport equipment and infrastructure in question. Four activities are planned under this
component:
* institutional and financial assistance to support the local administrations to plan, implement
and/or supervise the conservation and transport infrastructure development and maintenance
activities;
3   technical assistance to private operators willing to invest in conservation, post-harvest, and
transport infrastructure construction and maintenance activities;
*   financial assistance to farmer groups for the acquisition of post-harvest infrastructure and
AMTs; and
*   technical assistance to private operators for the construction and/or maintenance of AMTs.
1.6    Promotion of Off-farm Productive Activities in Rural Areas. The objectives behind the promotion
of off-farm productive activities are threefold: (a) the creation of additional employment and incomes and
thus a direct contribution to the poverty reduction objective; (b) the expansion of the effective demand for
food and other agricultural goods and, hence, the stimulation of production; and (c) greater responsiveness
of the supply of locally produced off-farm goods. The latter objective is important in order to avoid a
situation in which the increased demand for these goods, that would result from higher agricultural
productivity and incomes, would be translated into higher prices, which, in turn, not only would reduce the
real value of added agricultural incomes but also ultimately lead to higher agricultural wages. Both would
have negative implications in terms of slowing down the pace of intensification and commercialization of
agriculture. The activities through which these objectives would be realized are:
*   preparation and piloting of local off-farm development strategies;
*   financing of R&D for selected off-farm production activities;
- 23 -



*   training in enterprise development and management; and
*   provision of seed-funding and facilitation of access to rural investment credit.
1.7    Program SupDort and Coordination. The component's objective would be to achieve effective
implementation and coordination of all program activities. Given the local nature of many of its proposed
interventions, the various phases of the program would be implemented in a decentralized way in order to
ensure relevance and sustainability. The support to be provided under this component would hence include
the necessary technical and institutional support to beneficiary groups and local communities. Close
monitoring and regular evaluation of program activities are of critical importance for any project, but more
so for one that is based on decentralized implementation.  Four sets of activities are planned this
component:
*   establish a Project Support and Coordination Unit, including a Monitoring and Evaluation
Division;
*   design and implement a mechanism to effectively coordinate the program activities
* design and implement a mechanism to effectively monitor and evaluate the program activities;
* carry out a Baseline Rural Sector Survey (BSSR) in the first year and to be updated by the end
of year 4 of Phase One;
* carry out impact studies at local and beneficiary levels.
1.8    Indicative Project Costs (Phase 1)
Indicative      ~~Bank           IGEF 
Compone it:  Xt.t           _  Sector    0 4Cost   % of    financing     nk    finaning    GEF
1. Rehabilitation and       Irrigation &           16.19      29.0     14.62      30.5      0.00      0.0
Development of Marshlands    Drainage
and Hill-sides
2. Integrated Management of   Other Environment     5.00       8.9      0.00       0.0       5.00    100.0
Critical Ecosystems
3. Promotion of Agricultural   Agro-lndustry &     10.68      19.1      10.53     21.9       0.00     0.0
Exports                     Marketing
4. Support to Agricultural  Agricultural            9.66      17.3      9.59      20.0       0.00     0.0
Services Delivery Systems   Extension
5. Small-Scale Rural        Rural Roads            10.10      18.1      9.81      20.4       0.00     0.0
Infrastructure
6. Promotion of off-farm    Small Scale             0.34       0.6      0.34       0.7       0.00     0.0
productive activities in rural    Enterprise
areas
7. Program Support and      Unidentified            3.91       7.0      3.11       6.5       0.00     0.0
Coordination Unit
Global Components
0.00       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.00
Total Project Costs                      55.88     100.0    48.00      100.0       5.00   100.0
Total Financing Required                       55.88     100.0    48.00        0.0      5.00    100.0
- 24 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
2.1    There, is only one major policy or institutional reform issue that is of critical importance to the
success of the proposed program. It relates to the creation of a transparent legal framework for access to
and utilization of farmland, in general, and marshlands, in particular. A draft land law has been under
preparation for sometime. Its finalization and adoption to provide the legal protection and incentives for
long-term investment in marshland farming is in progress. Existing land legislation includes a leasehold
policy but the length of individual leases can vary with respect to farmed land. Consequently, the evidence
of leases to beneficiaries for periods sufficiently long enough to allow them to efficiently and sustainably
carry out subprojects activities will be a criteria for subproject eligibility under the component on
rehabilitation of farmed marshlands and hill-side areas. Furthermore, the adoption of the land law under
revision to include provisions that would ensure farmer access to and use of rehabilitated farmland through
transferable leases of at least 20 , before the end of the first Phase (2005) will be a trigger condition for
Phase 11 (2006-201 1) of the Program.
3. Benefits and target population:
3.1    The primary goal of the program is to raise productivity and accelerate growth in the agricultural
sector. In the long run, faster growth in agriculture would yield significant multiplier effects whlich,
cumulatively, would not only reduce poverty in the rural areas but would also have considerable positive
ramifications at the national and macroeconomic levels. In the short- to medium-run, the main target
populations and institutions would derive the following benefits:
3   Fiarmers in the project communes would benefit from improved agricultural support services,
which would give them greater access to better cropping and post-harvest practices. The
resulting higher productivity and incomes would provide the basis for further investments in
productivity enhancing technologies, thereby fostering the process of growth, the accumulation
of wealth, and the reduction of poverty among rural population, which constitute the largest
group among the country's poor.
3   P'rivate Entrepreneurs would benefit from the technical and financial support to better manage
and expand their activities. They would also benefit from higher productivity and incomes in
the agricultural sector, which would raise demand for the goods that they produce. This group
would, therefore, derive benefits both from the supply and the demand sides.
*   Consumers, which include the targeted farmers and private entrepreneurs, would benefit from
the increases in farm productivity, which would reduce the level or slow down the pace of
growth of food prices. Given the share of food costs in household expenditures, both in rural
and urban areas, higher farm productivity growth and the associated price effects would have
considerable income effects for the majority of the Rwandese population.
*   Local Communities would benefit from the improvement of local infrastructure. They would
also benefit from the diversification of the local economy and the creation of new employment
opportunities.
*   7argeted Institutions, which include the lead research and extension institutions, private R&D
institutions, central, prefectural and district-level administrations would benefit directly from
the technical support and other capacity-building activities that would be carried out under the
- 25 -



project.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period
4.1    The Program would be implemented as a 14-year APL, including an initial phase of expectedly
four years and two subsequent phases of 5 years each. The ultimate length of individual phases would
depend on the progress made towards achieving the respective outcomes and meeting the stipulated
triggers. Subsequent phases would be designed in line with the program goals, taking into consideration, as
necessary, adjustments that would be dictated by the outcomes from the preceding phase(s) as documented
by the evaluation that is carried out at the end of each phase.
Implementation and Coordination Principles
4.2    Two main options made by the Rwandese Government would guide the implementation of the
proposed program:
(a)     Decentralization.  With the Presidential Decree 37/01 in 1998 and the subsequent
Ministerial Directive 02/0704/1 in 1999, the Government of Rwanda has launched a
process to create the legal framework for political and administrative decentralization. A
policy paper is currently under completion which, once adopted by Government, would
provide the guidelines for the implementation of the decentralization policy. The Ministry
of Local Administration has been created in 1998 and significant measures have been
taken to restructure the local administrations and initiate a process of consultations with
local communities.
(b)    Adaptative Research and Participatory Extension Systems.  Given the limitation of
resources and the need to rapidly develop improved cropping technologies, Rwanda has
opted for an adaptative approach to technology generation.  Instead of developing
technologies from scratch, the research system would seek to effectively exploit the stock
of available know how in the regional and international research systems. Wherever
possible, it will acquire and adapt existing technologies to solve the technical constraints
facing Rwandese farmers. Furthermore, in order to ensure the adequacy and speed up the
diffusion of new technologies, the research and extension systems would be integrated and
opened to effective participation from beneficiary farmers.
4.3    Among others, the current decentralization policy paper foresees the transfer of policy making
competence to local governments in the following areas: (i) agriculture, veterinary, forestry, and all other
extension services; (ii) local trade; (iii) small-scale industries; (iv) land title, registration, and resettlement;
(v) tourism and environmental protection; (vi) cooperatives and associations; and (vii) local roads.
Furthermore, the Community Reintegration and Development Project (CRDP) has been piloting a
decentralized approach to designing and implementing development activities. The project is due to close
less than a year after the expected effectiveness of the proposed Program. Its mid-term review is to take
place in March 2001. The project has been implementing activities that constitute a subset of the activities
that are proposed under the planned Program. Moreover, it has been quite successfully developing
participatory implementation arrangements. It is, therefore, logical to: (i) seize the opportunity provided
by the proposed Program to complement CRDP's activities in the communes where it is already active; (ii)
expand its activities to new communes, while (iii) using the same implementation arrangements that have
-26 -



been already successfully piloted.  These arrangements would ensure the following implementation
principles:
(a)     definition, choice, management, and monitoring of public infrastructure activities and
ecosystem management plans by local administrations;
(b)    full participation of beneficiary farmers in the planning, implementation, and evaluation
of: (i) research and extension services; (ii) marshland and hill-side rehabilitation
activities; and (iii) the management of the physical infrastructure associated thereto;
(c)     execution of public works by local private sector contractors, artisans, and beneficiary
groups;
(d)    transparency and accountability at all levels; and
(e)     gradual mainstreaming of support and coordination activities at the level of the respective
implementing ministries and government agencies.
Program Coordination and Management
4.4    The implementation arrangements would follow the structure of decentralization and reflect the
option for participatory research and extension systems. Local administrations at the prefecture and
district levels would collaborate closely with local beneficiary groups to plan and implement farmed
marshland and hill-side rehabilitation as well as rural infrastructure development and improvement
activities. Together they would prepare the respective sub-projects and apply for funding. Similarly,
activities to support the provision of agricultural services would be implemented whenever possible, and
called for, in a tri-partite format that would bring together the lead institution (research and extension),
beneficiary farmer groups, and private R&D institutions, including research institutions and SLOs that
intervene in the area of rural development. In both cases, sub-projects would be designed and implemented
such as to ensure transparency, accountability, replicability, and sustainability.
Executing Agencies
4.5    The Program AdvisoryCommittee. The oversight and orientation of Program activities would be
the responsibility of a Program Advisory Committee (PAC) under the presidency of the Minister of
Agriculture, Animal Resources, and Forestry. In addition to MINAGRI, its members would include at
least representatives from the Ministries of: (i) Finance and Planning; (ii) Local Administration and Social
Affairs; (iii) Land, Human Resettlement, and Environment; (iv) Public Works, Transportation, and
Communications; and (v) Commerce and Industry. Farmer organizations would also be represented in the
PAC, as would the private agribusiness sector. The Project Coordinator would serve as PAC's Secretary
4.6    The Program  Support and Coordination Unit. A Program Support and Coordination Unit
(PSCU), which would be established within MINAGRI, would serve as the technical arm of the Program
Steering Committee.  The PSCU, led by the Project Coordinator, would be responsible for overall
management and coordination of Program activities, including the facilitation of support to implementing
local agencies and beneficiary groups. In particular, it would be responsible for: (i) the coordination of the
preparation and implementation of the different project components; (ii) the consolidation of annual work
programs and budgets; (iii) the establishment of a decentralized monitoring and evaluation system,
including the creation of a Monitoring and Evaluation Division (MED) to implement M&E activities in
- 27 -



collaboration with local administrations and beneficiary groups; and (iv) financial and administrative
management of project activities. The PSCU staff would be recruited in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for the recruitment of consultants. In addition to the Project Coordinator (PC) and the usual
support staff, the PSCU team would include a Chief Financial Officer (CFO), a Project Accountant (PA),
and a Procurement Officer (PO). The MED staff would include a Monitoring and Evaluation Coordinator
(MEC), an Information Technology Specialist/Statistician (ITS). PSCU will also include a technical
division comprising an agronomist/natural resources specialist, agricultural economist, and a rural
engineer.
4.7    Given the technical characteristics of some of the project activities and the need to ensure future
mainstreaming of support and coordination functions into the activities of ministries and other
implementing agencies, PSCU would collaborate closely with relevant technical departments outside of
MINAGRI. The format of collaboration and coordination is presented in the diagram below. The terms of
reference for individual participating agencies/ministerial departments will be described in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM). It is proposed that PSCU coordinate the implementation of Program
activities with the relevant technical directorates of other ministries and agencies as follows:
Component I -
Rehabilitation of Farmed Marshland and Hill-side Areas - with Directorate of Rural
Engineering and Directorate of Agriculture of MINAGRI:
Component 2 -
Integrated Management of Critical Ecosystems - with Ministry of Land, Human
Resettlement, and Environment (MINITERE);
Component 3 -
Promotion of Commercial and Export Agriculture - with Directorate of Agriculture,
Directorate of Livestock of MINAGRI and Directorate of Commerce and Directorate of
Industry (MIINECOM);
Component 4 -
Support to Agricultural Services Delivery Systems - with ISAR and the Directorate of
Marketing and Extension of MINAGRI and ISAR;
Component 5 -
Small-scale Infrastructure Development - with Directorate of Rural Engineering of
MINAGRI and with local administrations;
Component 6-
Promotion of Off-farm Productive Activities in Rural Areas - with Directorate of
Agriculture, Directorate of Liverstock of MINAGRI, local administrations and Directorate
of Commerce and Directorate of Industry (MINECOM);
Component 7-
Program Monitoring and Evaluation - with Directorate of Planning and Agricultural
Statistics of MINAGRI, and with CEPEX (MINECOFIN).
4.8    Local Administrations. Local administrations would have planning and oversight responsibilities
- 28 -



at the local level, primarily for the implementation of public infrastructure subprojects under the
small-scale rural infrastructure component.  Participating local administrations would designate RSP
coordinators who would serve as liaison between the administrations, PSCU, beneficiaries, the private
sector, and other implementing agencies. While a limited number of CDCs are already operational and are
receiving support from CRDP or other projects in several communes, there are many CDCs that require
support to become effective partners. PSCU would work closely with the Ministry of Local Administration
and Social Affairs (MINALOC) to provide the necessary support to CDCs. The expected responsibilities
of CDCs under individual project components are listed below. Detailed TORs will be included in the
PIM. CDCs vvould work together with beneficiary groups, PSCU, and other implementing agencies to:
Component 1:
participate in the:  (i) planning of marshland and hillside rehabilitation activities; (ii)
procurement of rehabilitation work; and (iii) development of strategies for long-term utilization
and management of rehabilitated areas;
Component 2:
(i) prepare management and zoning plans to provide for proper land use in both the hillsides
and marshlands; (ii) prepare, adopt, disseminate, and enforce guidelines for sound
environmental management; and (iii) develop and enforce environmental standards and an
environmental code of conduct to be followed by the contractors and sub contractors
imrplementing the sub-projects;
Component 3:
plan, implement, and supervise any public infrastructure work to promote commercial and
export agriculture;
Component 4:
carry necessary activities to support the operation of agricultural services delivery systems and
facilitate the collaboration between lead public research and extension institutions, beneficiary
farmers, and the private sector, including SLOs;
Component 5:
(i) participate in the planning, implementation, and supervision of marketing and transport
infrastructure development and maintenance activities; and (ii) sub-contract with private sector
operators to carry out public work related to marketing and transport infrastructure;
Component 6:
(i) prepare, in collaboration with other relevant local administrations, local off-farm
development strategies; and (ii) pilot test and scale up off-farm sector promotion activities;
Component 7:
(i) set up a local monitoring and evaluation system that is linked to the PSCU's M&E system,
(ii) prepare regular evaluation report; and (iii) develop a communication and information
s,ystem to promote transparency and participation in the implementation of project activities.
- 29 -



Implementation Vehicles
4.9    The proposed decentralized format of implementation requires that appropriate instruments be
found to channel financial resources to implementing local agencies and beneficiaries. For that purpose,
three types of funding facilities would be set up to provide competitive funding for activities implemented
directly by local administrations and beneficiary groups, including farmers and other private sector
operators. The clusters of activities under individual components that can be funded through the three
Facilities are described in Table I of Annex 2. The procedures and eligibility criteria for each of these
Facilities are detailed in the PIM. The three facilities are: Local Infrastructure Facility (LIF); Rural
Investment Facility (RIF); and Rural Technology Facility (RTF).
Local Infrastructure Facility (LIF). The LIF would be the mechanism to transfer financial resources
to local administrations and other local beneficiaries to finance: (i) soil and water resources
conservation infrastructure on marshlands and hill-sides; (ii) transport infrastructure development and
maintenance activities; and (iii) construction of post-harvest and other marketing and export cost-
reducing infrastructure.
Rural Investment Facility (RIF). The RIF would provide financial incentives through investment cost
subsidy to qualified private sector operators, including farmer groups, willing to invest in activities
with substantial economic or environmental externalities.  For instance, investment by private
entrepreneurs in value-adding activities in the processing and conservation sectors would generate
collective benefits in terms of alleviating the demand constraint facing the agricultural sector and
providing incentives for the intensification of crop and livestock production activities, a major objective
of the government's rural development strategy. The RIF would finance sub-projects in the following
activity areas: (i) the operation of farmer-owned Commercial Enterprises and Technical Support
Entities (CETSE); (ii) processing, conservation, and trading of crop, livestock, and forestry products;
(iii) transport infrastructure construction and maintenance activities; (iv) acquisition of appropriate
(adapted) means of rural transport (AMT) by farmers to be tested under pilot activities; (v) investment
by private operators in the construction and/or maintenance of AMTs and transport infrastructure; (vi)
investment by private operators in agricultural services delivery activities, and (vii) selected pilot
off-farm productive activities.
Rural Technology Facility (RTF). The RTF would be the main vehicle to establish and support
participatory agricultural services delivery systems. It would provide matching grants to: (a) building
the institutional, commercial, and technical capacities of farmer groups through the establishement of
farmer-owned Commercial Enterprises and Technical Support Entities (CETSE); and (b) strengthen
the capacities of agricultural research and extension systems in order to generate and extend improved
technologies to farmers and enhance the delivery of services. Given the very weak capacities in the
research systems, the first phase would include the: (i) rebuilding of ISAR's research and analytical
capacities; (ii) training of scientists; and (iii) building the capacities of lead research and extension
services to involve farmers and private operators in the generation and dissemination of cropping,
animal husbandry, and post-harvest and dairy technologies, in addition to: (iv) institutional support
and grants to farmer groups to procure and participate in research and extension services; (v) matching
grants to private operators to invest in services delivery activities; and (vi) R&D on selected pilot
off-farm productive activities.
30 -



Accounting, ]Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements
4.10   PSCU would be responsible for financial management of project resources, including establishment
of an adequate accounting system, internal control procedures, preparation and submission of periodic
financial statements and ensuring that the project's annual financial statements are audited in conformity
with IDA requirements. PSCU would also monitor all disbursements to ensure that all expenditures are
eligible and incurred for the purposes intended under the project, including those through LIF, RIF, and
RTF. PSCU will also set up appropriate procedures for flow of funds to participating CDCs and for
CDCs to account for project funds, including submission of quarterly and annual reports on the progress of
implementation of their respective subprojects.
4.11   The F'SCU staff would include a Chief Financial Officer who will have the overall responsibility
for the financial functions indicated above, and an Assistant Accountant. While the establishment of a
Financial Management System, acceptable to IDA, will be a condition of effectiveness, the recruitment of
the CFO will be funded under PPF and it is expected that he/she will join the PSCU by the time of project
Negotiations. Early recruitment of the CFO is emphasized to allow the CFO time to familiarize him/herself
with project environment and operations intended under various components as the team goes through the
project planning process. It should also give the CFO time to: (i) familiarize him/herself with Bank's
current disbursement procedures as well as Bank's new reporting procedures under FINMI (ex-LACI); (ii)
initiate the process of establishing financial, accounting and internal control procedures for the Program,
which should be in place by the time of project effectiveness; (iii) write up a simple manual to describe the
flow of project funds, minimum intemal control procedures and, in consultation with the Project
Coordinator, establish thresholds and approvals required for various levels of project expenditures; (iv)
survey accounting softwares available (including by visits to other IDA-financed projects in Rwanda) and
identify one that would be most appropriate for the Program; and (v) assess if consultants would be
necessary for any of the above tasks and, if so, make specific proposals for funding such assistance under
PPF. It is envisaged that the CFO will remain in close contact with IDA and to ensure that all
arrangements for accounting and financial management made by the time of project effectiveness are
acceptable to IDA and conform to OP/BP 10.02.
4.12   Under the overall responsibility of the CFO, the project will be required to submit quarterly Project
Monitoring Reports (PMRs) as indicated in the Bank's Project Financial Management Manual of February
1999. However, it is almost certain that the project (and the CFO, in particular) will need very close
guidance in this task and it is unlikely that the project will be able to produce immediately all the 12 reports
required under the new FINMI (ex-LACI) procedures. Emphasis in the initial months will hence be on the
preparation of the two key financial reports (Sources and Uses of Funds and Uses of Funds by Project
Activity). Depending upon the competence and abilities of the CFO and other staff, the project should be
able to generate the complete PMRs within 18 months after project effectiveness.
4.13   The annual financial statement of the project, including expenditures of all project components,
will be audited by an independent external firm of professional auditors and under terms of reference
acceptable to ][DA. In addition to the opinion on project financial statements, the auditors will be required
to provide separate opinions on the SOEs and the management and utilization of the Special Accounts and
the Decentralized Advance Accounts at provincial levels. In line with general audit practice, the auditors
will also issue a management report with practical recommendations for any improvements that may appear
necessary in the accounting and project internal control system.
- 31 -



Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting
4.14   The proposed APL approach and the decentralized implementation of program activities, both
would require a strong Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Component. It is proposed to establish within
PSCU a Monitoring and Evaluation Division (MED), a sub-unit to monitor activity outcomes and evaluate
project impact. The M&E tasks of the sub-unit would also include training of and support to other
implementing agencies at the central as well as local levels to establish and implement their own internal
M&E systems. The M&E modalities at the different levels would be defined in a Program Monitoring
Guide (PMG) and an Impact Evaluation Guide (IEG) that would be prepared before project effectiveness.
As part of the impact evaluation activities, a baseline rural sector survey (BRSS) will be carried out at the
start of project implementation to provide a basis against which the various program indicators would be
measured. The BRSS would include three separate sets of structured surveys on: (i) farm households, (ii)
off-farm sectors; and (iii) beneficiary communes. These surveys would be implemented under PSCU
supervision and in collaboration with MINAGRI services.
4.15   The PSCU's MED would implement a systematic and detailed monitoring and reporting system
focusing on both the outputs and outcomes of the project. The system should allow an effective evaluation
of: (a) the effectiveness of the project's delivery mechanisms and procedures; and (b) the impact of project
activities on the basis of the stated objectives, the baseline data base, and the input, output, and impact
indicators that are identified in the Project Design Summary (Annex 1) as well as the performance triggers.
The key tasks under the monitoring arrangements would include, besides the regular monitoring of project
activities: (i) updates in year four of the project of the baseline surveys of the farm household and off-farm
sectors, and of the beneficiary communes; (ii) analysis of the survey data through qualified and independent
research entities (universities, research centers, consulting firms); and (iii) collection of additional
information as necessary to document the progress status of project activities. The progress towards
project outcomes would be evaluated during its execution and at project completion. A project mid-term
review would be carried out by Government to determine, based on the results of M&E as described above,
the extent to which the project is performing vis-a-vis its development objectives. At the end of year four,
an impact study would be carried out to assess whether the trigger indicators have been met and the
program activities be extended into a second phase.
- 32 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
1.1    Two alternative approaches to design and implement the proposed program have been considered:
(a)    The first alternative would have consisted in a series of smaller and separate sub-sectoral
operations, in parallel or in series. These would be smaller in size and more manageable. On the
other hand, the interrelated nature of the constraints to intensification, commercialization, and
diversification requires an approach that exploits to the maximum the reinforcing complementarity
of the activities to be undertaken in the various sub-sectors. The option of separate operations
would not allow for a full exploitation of the synergies between these operations. The overall
program would, however, not only cost more, but the overall achieved impact per dollar spent on
the program would be much less. Under the adopted approach, constraints related to technology,
infrastructure, and services delivery are addressed in parallel, exploiting the existing synergies and
reinforcing the achieved outcomes from the respective sets of activities.
(b)    The second alternative would have consisted in setting up a centrally implemented program
which would: (i) support central government services to carry out sets of standardized land and
transport infrastructure improvement sub-projects; and (ii) rebuild the current national research
and extension systems. Such an approach would have the advantage of faster implementation,
easier monitoring, and simpler financial control. However, it would render program activities less
responsive to the real needs of beneficiaries, thereby reducing their ultimate impact and
jeopardizing their sustainability. By opting for a decentralized format, coupled with a strong
coordination and monitoring component, the proposed program would ensure ownership and thus
set the conditions for efficient implementation through beneficiary groups and institutions as well
as the sustainability of project activities beyond the life of the program.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                   (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Support to OCIR cafe and acceleration (1) Cinchona Project (Cr.       S             U
of small-holder planting programs in   656-RW)
the project area, in addition to
strengthening extension services and
improving intemal and extemal
marketing arrangements.
Development of areas opened up by    (2) Bugesera East,               U             U
tsetse eradication.                Gisaka/Migongo Mixed
Farming and Rural
Development (Cr. 668-RW)
- 33 -



Build social infrastructure and enhance (3) Mutara Agricultural and  S             U
rural institutions.               Livestock Development - Phase
II (Cr. 937-RW)
Increased supply of fuel-wood,    (4) Integrated Forestry and        S             S
conservation of national forests,  Livestock Development (Cr.
establishment of a long-term program   1039-RW)
for forestry development
Support to OCIR CAFE and to       (5) Lake Kivu Coffee               U             S
food-crop and coffee extension services Improvement and Foodcrop
(Cr. 1126-RW)
Support to rural development in the    (6) Bugesera and Gisaka       U             S
project area through improved services Migongo - Phase II (Cr.
and infrastructure                 1283-RW)
Efficiency of operation and       (7) First Water Supply (Cr.        S             S
effectiveness of institutional and  1345-RW)
financial arrangement in the rural water
supply sub-sector
Long-term development program for   (8) Agricultural Research (Cr.   U             U
agricultural research system       1546-RW)
Test of low cost agricultural services  (9) Gitarama Agricultural    S             U
delivery models in the Gitarama   Production and MINAGRI
prefecture and support to planning,    Institutional Development (Cr.
monitoring, and evaluation capacity of 1669-RW)
the Ministry of Agriculture
Management of the environmental and  (10) Second Integrated Forestry  U            U
economic effects of the destruction of  (Cr. 1811 -RW)
natural forests
Quality of water operations in rural    (11) Second Water Supply (Cr.  U           U
areas and establishment of a water  1783-RW)
rehabilitation and maintenance program
Achieving higher agricultural      (12) Agricultural Services (Cr.  HU             HU
productivity and farrn output.     2026-RW)
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 34 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
3.1    The evaluation of the following IDA projects in Rwanda has produced valuable lessons that have
been taken into consideration in the design of the proposed program:
*   One key lesson from the Second Integrated Forestry Project (CR. 1811-RW) is that full
recognition needs to be given to the opportunities for beneficiaries and the private sector to
participate in the design and implementation of income generating activities. In the case of the
above project, the lack of participation has reduced the effective benefit to rural population
from the project and subsequently led to the destruction of forest resources it sought to protect.
jThe design of the proposed program has, in contrast, taken into account, very early in the
process, stakeholders' views on project objectives and how they are to be achieved.
Representatives of local communes were fully involved in the identification of issues
concerning them and the environment in which they live, thus strengthening local ownership
and reducing risk of project failure.
* Another important lesson that is derived from the Second Water Supply Project (CR.
]l 783-RW) is that operations in post-conflict situations need to be kept simple and that special
attention should be given to institutional and policy reforms. The relatively complex design of
the project, which involved a multiplicity of donors, encouraged burden sharing, resulting in a
broad-based multi-donor effort. However, tangible effects were not experienced by final
beneficiaries because of difficulties to coordinate donor funding and intervention.
*   A series of other valuable lessons can be drawn from the Lake Kivu Coffee Improvement and
Foodcrop Project (Cr. 1126-RW), the Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1546-RW), and
Gitarama Agricultural Production and MINAGRI Institutional Development Project (Cr.
:1669-RW). Most of these lessons are relevant to the program component on agricultural
services delivery systems. They include the importance of: (i) clearly defining the interface
between the research and extension services systems prior to project start-up and canying out
evaluations of the capacity of research organizations during preparation; (ii) ensuring
demand-responsiveness of extension services and thereby adoption of extended technologies;
(iii) maintaining an adequate level of research activities through support to recurrent funding in
order to strengthen research services; (iv) adequately planning research and training activities,
linked to a human resources development plan and a long-term development strategy of the
research system, keeping in mind that large increases in research and support staff do not
result in increases in research efficiency or productivity; (v) taking full advantage of the
technologies generated by regional and international research organizations and concentrating
on testing and adapting them to local conditions; and (vi) solving the problem of market outlets
prior to making decisions on the generation and extension of improved production techniques.
* ][n general, projects in Rwanda and elsewhere underscore the need to pay greater attention to
capacity building, particularly among lead public institutions.  In Rwanda, the role of
government in the promotion of rural development initiatives, in particular the provision of
public goods such as agricultural services and rural infrastructure, remain essential.
Furthermore, because of the local characteristic of such goods, the successful implementation
Of any project activities in these areas would require strong institutional support to beneficiary
groups, the private sector, and local administrations.
- 35 -



*   A final set of important lessons is drawn from two ongoing pilot projects: the Community
Reintegration and Development Project (CRDP) and the Agricultural and Rural Market
Development Project (ARMDP). The emerging evidence from CRDP activities indicates that
local communities, when provided with the necessary support, can rapidly develop the
capacities to effectively design and implement community-based subprojects. In particular, the
project provides valuable lessons with respect to community-based planning and management
of local infrastructure. Moreover, participating CDCs have proven that local administrations
can acquire the necessary capacity to handle their fiduciary responsibilities and properly follow
procurement procedures. The mechanisms that have been put in place and have worked under
CRDP would be used under the present program.
*   There are two main lessons from the ARMDP project. The first is with respect to the
promotion of private-sector based systems of advisory services for small-holder farmers, as
complement to existing public extension services. The project uses sub-contracting to exploit
the capacities of specialized local organizations (SLOs) that are currently active in the areas of
rural development and natural resources management and provide technical and institutional
support to small-holder farmers. That fornat will be followed in promoting demand-driven
agricultural services systems, which would ensure effective collaboration between public R&D
institutions, private operators, and farmer organizations in generating and extending farming
technologies. The other lesson relates to the project's effort to encourage commercial banks
and private operators to invest in a key sector of the agricultural economy: the importation and
distribution of modem inputs. The project has been able to attract new entrepreneurs into the
sector and to create the conditions for local banks to provide financing for these activities. Its
formula would be expanded to encourage banks and private entrepreneurs to invest in a
broader range of agribusiness activities.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
4.1    The Borrower has at this stage demonstrated considerable ownership. It has initiated project
preparation by commissioning several studies through local consultants using resources provided from a
PHRD grant. In addition, it has provided budgetary resources to hire several international consultants to
help the project preparation team at MINAGRI to put together proposals for consideration for the World
Bank team. Furthermore, it has organized an identification workshop, regrouping all potential beneficiary
groups, in which the Minister of Agricultural has personally participated very actively. The Bank and
MINAGRI preparation teams worked closely with the unit at the Ministry of Finance that is in charge of
coordinating the preparation and implementation of projects (CEPEX). Representatives from CEPEX have
joined the identification, pre-appraisal, and appraisal missions and have attended the identification
workshop. This is not the first time that the Government has shown real ownership with respect to Bank
programs. For instance, it has voluntarily tripled the Government contribution that was requested up-front
during the preparation of the ongoing project on Agricultural and Rural Market Development, hired the
project team, acquired the financial management software and equipment, and paid for training of the
project staff in order to launch project activities several months before credit effectiveness. A similar level
of ownership has been displayed with respect to the currently proposed program.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
5.1   IDA has a strong comparative advantage in providing adequate funding and ensuring commitment
for a sufficiently long time. Adequate funding and long-term commitment in turn are critical for the
learning processes and experiments that are necessary to empower beneficiary groups and local
communities to effectively take ownership and ensure sustainability. Furthermore, IDA is bringing
- 36 -



substantial international experience with respect to community-based development activities and support to
agricultural services. Moreover, the ongoing IDA project on Agricultural and Rural Market Development
is using an approach that systematically involves specialized local organizations in the implementation of
its activities and thereby developing local capacities for planning and execution of development projects
and the proviision of technical advisory services. The proposed program would provide the opportunity to
broaden that experience.
5.2    Rwanda is at the beginning of a process of administrative and political decentralization which
would benefit strongly from IDA's substantial experience in this area elsewhere in Africa as well as outside
of the continent. The proposed decentralized implementation of the program activities would contribute to
strengthening the capacities of local administrations to plan and implement infrastructure improvement and
other economaic development strategies. The financial support to local administrations and communities
under the program would also provide the opportunity to strengthen financial management capacities of
local administrations as well as promote the establishment of accountability and transparency
arrangements.
- 37 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
Comparative advantage (DRC)
1.1    There are two critical issues that needed to be looked into very carefully: (a) the long-term
viability/profitability of farming on rehabilitated marshlands and hill-sides; and (b) the competitiveness of
priority crops, as defined by the Government, particularly maize and rice. The issue in the latter case is not
whether Rwanda has or does not have currently a comparative advantage in maize and rice. Given the
long-terrn orientation of the program and the hitherto limited cultivation of the two crops, the analysis
focused rather on three interrelated questions:  (i) what are the principal factors that determine the
competitiveness of these crops; (ii) in case they can be grown competitively, how the level of
competitiveness can be sustained; and, (iii) alternatively, if they are not currently competitive, what needs
to be done to ensure their competitiveness.
Economic Viability (see Annex 4)
1.2    The financial and economic viability analysis focused primarily on the rehabilitation of farmed
marshlands and hill-side areas. It was based on six different types of rehabilitation model/cropping
techniques, two for hill-side farming and four for marshland farming. Results show that the financial and
economic indicators are on the high side. Returns per family-day of labor have usually doubled or tripled
in the models concenied compared with the reference situation. They range from RWF 1,140 in the
Traditional (TT) marshland to RWF 2,790 on the hillside with a cattle unit at the eighth (cruising) year of
the project. This is far above the RWF 300 going wage for unskilled agricultural labor. The financial
attractiveness of the 6 farm models is confirmed by the IRR which varies from 30 percent in the case of
hillside farming to 116 percent in the Traditional (TT) marshland. Net Present Values (NPV) for their part
range from RWF 1,359,400 in hillside crop farming to RWF 9,052,600 in the marshland with waterworks
Type A (drainage and pedal pumps).  Benefit cost ratios average 1.9.  Furthermore, switching
values/sensitivity analysis show that financial revenues at farm level should fall an average of 40 percent or
total costs (investment plus recurrent) increase by 87 percent to reduce the NPV to zero.  Net Present
Values for the economic analysis range from RWF 1,011,000 for the hillside farm with a cattle unit to
RWF 2,795,000 for the marshland vegetable farm with just a simple drain. Corresponding IRRs vary from
34 to 184, while benefit costs ratios for the 6 farms average 2.5. Likewise, switching values are high and
further underscore the attractiveness of the investments.
Long-term Competitiveness of Priority Crops (see Annex 4)
1.3    The estimated DRC coefficients to assess the competitiveness of agricultural commodities suggest
that Rwanda enjoys a strong comparative advantage in maize, rice, sorghum and beans when they are
produced for consumption in markets close to the production zones. For maize, sorghum and beans,
Rwanda's comparative advantage extend well beyond the production zones and reaches Kigali, which is the
most important urban consumption center of the country. In contrast to the results of maize, dry beans and
sorghum, those of rice show that this commodity loses its competitive edge when it is marketed from the
- 38 -



production zones to Kigali. Several factors converge to hinder the competitiveness of rice in this important
urban market: (i) high processing costs, due to high overhead costs, ill-adapted milling equipment leading
to significant overcapacity and frequent equipment breakdown; (ii) low quality of milled rice; (iii) very low
on-farmn productivity levels; and (iv) poor water management. By removing most if not all of the above
constraints, the project would significanlty boost productivity in the rice sector. Moreover, the sensitivity
results show a considerable improvement in competitiveness with modest increases in rice prices and
changes in the exchange rate.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
2.1    Two issues are to be considered here: (i) the financial viability of the project activities; and (ii) the
fiscal impact of the operation, both at central and local government levels.
Financial Viability
2.2    The results of the financial analysis are discussed above with that of the economic analysis.
Detailed results are presented in Annex 4.
Fiscal Impact:
2.3    The fiscal impact sums up the changes in expenditure and revenue that central and local
government would incur through the implementation of the project. It is difficult to estimate the exact
fiscal impact, ex ante, due to the demand-driven approach in the choice of investment activities. The likely
direction of changes with respect to fiscal revenue and expenditure is discussed below.
2.4    Central Government. The cost to the central government would amount to the transfers to local
governments and private sector beneficiaries, including farmners, from the IDA credit. Given its primary
focus on productive sectors, the project would raise economic activities, productivity, and incomes. The
expected expansion of output in the agricultural, exports, and off-farm sectors would not only raise taxable
incomes of currently tax-paying entities in these sectors. It would also expand the tax base by bringing into
the formal economy actors that have been operating outside of it and by pulling into the production process
resources that have hetherto been idle. These cumulated changes would yield sufficient revenues in the
long run to sustain project activities beyond the life time of the Program.
2.5    Local Government. Local governments would receive incremental revenues equivalent to the
transfers associated with the implementation of small-scale rural infrastructure, marshland/hill-side
rehabilitation, and ecosystem management sub-projects. The incremental expenditure at their level would
correspond to their respective contributions to the financing of these activities. Initially, local government
would contribute no less than 5 percent in cash to the total cost of infrastructure construction and
maintenance, plus another 15 percent in terms of material and in-kind. In the second and third phases of
the program, the contributions by local government would be raised gradually to ensure sustainability
beyond the life of the Program. The increase in productivity and expansion of local employment and
incomes would provide the necessary revenues to meet these long-term costs.
3. Technical:
3.1    The key technical issues that needed to be looked into before program implementation revolved
around the irrigation and drainage technologies in marshland areas. The other technical issues, particularly
those related to small-scale rural infrastructure improvement, would be assessed as beneficiaries make
- 39 -



investment choices and plan individual sub-projects, which would be subject to prior evaluation and
approval through the project management and coordination process.
3.2    A technical assessment of marshland and hill-side rehabilitation activities has been carried out.
The study specifies alternative hill-side rehabilitation techniques with respective unit costs, advantages, and
shortfalls. The marshland part of the study includes: (i) an inventory of potential marshland areas for
rehabilitation; (ii) typology of rehabilitation techniques; (iii) alternative irrigation techniques; (iv) the
capacity of government agencies and local communities to supervise rehabilitation activities as well as (v)
agronomic aspects of marshland and hill-side agriculture. The pedological and hydrological aspects that
are in specific individual marshlands and hill-side areas would be evaluated at the time of selection of
rehabilitation sites by local beneficiaries.
4. Institutional:
4.1    There are three main institutional challenges resulting from the need for: (i) effective coordination
of the decentralized process of implementing project activities; (ii) management of sub-projects by local
communities; and (iii) the currently weak capacity of MINAGRI and ISAR to implement the research and
extension activities. The coordination mechanism, including TORs for the main implementing agencies and
the beneficiaries, will be described in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). During implementation
and supervision, particular attention would be devoted to the coordination aspect.  Regarding the
management of sub-projects by local communities, the emerging evidence from the CRDP pilot activities
indicate that local communities, with the necessary support, can rapidly develop the capacities to effectively
manage these activities. For instance, all participating CDCs under the CRDP are now functional and fully
in charge of project management on the ground. On the research and extension services side, a rapid
assessment of ISAR's capacities has been carried out during appraisal. Moreveer, the institute is currently
preparing a strategic program that would be completed before implementation of this project. The results
of the assessment and the strategic program would guide the capacity building effort under the project. In
addition, the project would use sub-contracting to exploit the large capacities of local specialized
organizations (SLO) and encourage other private operators that are active in the rural sector to complement
MINAGRI's extension efforts. A recent institutional assessment of these organizations indicate that they
are better equipped on average than the government agencies. Many of them have 10-20 years experience
of development work. The ongoing pilot project (Rural and Agricultural Market Development Project) is
currently being implemented in close collaboration with these organizations. It is expected to provide
useful and replicable lessons by the time the current project becomes effective.
4.1 Executing agencies:
4.1.1  The implementation of the project activities calls for close collaboration between different
government agencies and between central and local government institutions (see Section 4.1). The Project
Implementation Manual will clarify the relationships between individual executing agencies with an
objective of ensuring effective coordination and monitoring of program activities. The modalities of
collaboration would be specified in the PIM.
4.2 Project management:
4.2.1  In order to ensure effective management of the project activities right at the start, the Project
Coordinator and the CFO have been hired before negotiations and well ahead of effectiveness, so that they
can familiarize themselves with the requirements and processes of managing and coordinating project
activities before implementation. In addition, all key members of PSCU would be recruited in line with
Bank guidelines in order to ensure the quality of staff. The required capacities of the project management
- 40 -



team to successfully coordinate and monitor program activities and effectively collaborate with local
administrations, beneficiary groups, and other implementing agencies will guide the design of the modalities
of coordination and monitoring, which will be specified in the PIM.
4.3 Procurement issues:
4.3.1  The main issue here is how to design and implement a community-based procurement system that
is simple enough to be mastered by local beneficiary groups, yet effective enough to ensure proper
utilization of the program resources. As indicated earlier, the current project would scale up the pilot
CRDP pilot project and hence would use the same procurement arrangements which have proven to be
effective. According to a recent aide memoire, the CDCs have proven their ability to handle their fiduciary
responsibilities and properly follow the procurement procedures. The same training and other capacity
strengthening mechanisms that were used under CRDP to empower local communities would be used to
support new beneficiary communes under the proposed Program. To coordinate these activities, PSCU
would recruit a procurement specialist.
4.4 Financial management issues:
4.4.1  From the financial management point of view, the main issue would be to establish a financial
management system that is compliant with OP/BP 10.02 by effectiveness. The approach that is proposed
to establishing such a system is described in C.4.2 above. The issue of community-based financial
management emerges here as well. The proposed approach would be the same as in the case of
procurement. The mechanisms that have been put in place and have worked under CRDP would be used
under the present program.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
5.1.1  The EA team concluded that in the absence of a project, the current process of degradation on the
farmed wetlands will continue due to continued loss of vegetation, accelerated erosion, and poor drainage
systems. This in turn would result in reduced water retention capacity, leading to more frequent and
damaging floods and loss of biodiversity.  Other adverse environmental impacts associated with a
no-project option are: (i) non-sustainable land use practices on hillsides, and increased pressure on
adjacent wetlands and other marginal systems due to declining soil fertility; (ii) likely increase in nutrient
loading and eutrophication due to uncontrolled use of fertilizers and pesticides; and (iii) deteriorating water
quality. Consequently, the EA concluded that the no-project option will be costly in both economic, social,
and environmental terms. The implementation of the project may generate, however, its own negative
environmental impacts. As is apparent from its components, the project aims at promoting broad-based
economic growth and reducing poverty by providing a strong support to the activities in which the poor
tend to be employed, that is, agriculture and related activities. Since land scarcity is a major constraint in
Rwanda, expanding agricultural production through intensification, infrastructure development, and the use
of chemical inputs is likely to put a relatively high pressure on the natural resource base.
5.1.2  During the first phase, the project will support agricultural activities in about 4,000 ha of wetlands.
Although these are already farmed marshlands, noticeable negative environmental impacts could result
from the intensive exploitation if appropriate measures are not taken.  In particular, unsustainable
exploitation (e.g., uncontrolled removal of remaining vegetative cover, intensive pesticides use,
inappropriate drainage systems) of these fragile ecosystems could impair their hydrologic and edaphic
characteristics, and possibly result in their drying up.  This could affect their productive functions
- 41 -



(agriculture, fisheries, wood, and other products of interest to rural livelihoods), and reduce or eliminate
key ecological functions (flood abatement, water erosion control, sediment stabilization and water
purification). Unsustainable exploitation could also be detrimental to the flora and fauna species inhabiting
the wetlands and their surroundings. The rehabilitation of farmed lands would certainly lead to more
people being involved in irrigated agriculture. This could increase the incidence of waterbome diseases
such as malaria and bilharzia.  Finally, insufficient attention to the cumulative impacts of the
rehabilitation/development of some types of rural infrastructure, such as feeder roads and arterial trail
tracks, could affect negatively the environment (localized erosion, for example).
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
5.2.1  In compliance with OP 4.01, an environmental assessment of the project has been conducted. The
report recommends a number a measures to be implemented in order to mitigate the potential adverse
environmental impacts that could result from the project implementation. Regarding wetland exploitation,
an important safeguard is the fact that the project will include wetlands that are already farmed. Wetlands
that are non-exploited at this stage will not be put under farming. As recommended by the EA, even for
those wetlands under exploitation before the project, a well targeted environmental assessment study will be
undertaken prior to intervention on each one of them. In addition, an assessment of the biodiversity of
wetlands will be conducted (GEF component) in order to guide the selected development of these
ecosystems, and their restoration, as needed. The EA has prepared an environmental screening tool (for all
types of investments) that will be integrated in the review of the funding requests emanating from
communities and specialized organizations. The project will add the cost of environmental impact
mitigation to the total financing made available to communities applying for investment funding.
Environmental indicators will be included in the monitoring and evaluation system of the project.
5.2.2  In order to mitigate the potential environmental impact of increased use of pesticides, the project
has prepared an extensive integrated pest management (1PM) plan that will train some 2,000 to 2,500
farmers following the "farmer field approach". This plan describes the methods to be used to reduce the
adverse effect related to pesticide use, and provides an implementation manual for users. It would
significantly reduce the quantity of pesticides used (compared to without IMP scenario). Sensitization of
local communities, testing of biological control methods for malaria and bilharzia vectors as well as the
re-enforcement of the material means of local clinics will be used to reduce the prevalence of these two
most common waterbome diseases among wetland farmers. Capacity building constitute an important
component of the environmental management plan. In order to help conduct effective environmental
assessment studies and implement mitigation measures, the project will support capacity building at both
the central, regional (prefecture), and community levels. Given the relatively low technical capacity in the
key institutions involved in the implementation of the project, the Project Preparation Fund (PPF) will
finance an intensive training program intended to develop the skills of a core staff to be involved in the
implementation of the planned activities. Environmental modules, in particular environmental assessment,
are an integral part of this training program. This will be supplemented by longer training sessions during
project implementation. The cost of the environmental mitigation, monitoring (including targeted studies),
and training (central, regional, and local levels) amounts to US$750,000. These resources would be
mobilized from the GEF and RSP resources, according to the cfivision of responsibility between MINAGRI
and MINITERE.
5.2.3  The project will be implemented in a decentralized manner in which the Community Development
Committees (CDCs) will play the key role. The project coordination will be assured by a small unit from
MINAGRI (MINITERE will coordinate the implementation of the GEF component), but sub-projects will
be implemented directly by local communities. The experience of the on-going Community Reintegration
- 42 -



and Development Project (CRDP) shows that when provided with the necessary support, communities are
highly efficient and successful in designing and implementing development initiatives, and overseeing
contractual arrangements for service delivery. This project will continue using the community development
approach developed by CRDP. In addition, the project will use sub-contracting to exploit the capacities of
local specialized organizations that seem to be better equipped than many government agencies. The
on-going Rural and Agricultural Market Development pilot project is relying on many of these
organizations for its operations.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: November 27, 2000
Based on the results of the environmental assessment and the review by AFTEI, the environmental
category for the proposed project has been determined as Category B.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Environmental Management Plan
5.4.1  The EA has proposed mitigation measures for effective management of the marshlands and
hillsides rehabilitation as well as the implementation of small-scale rural infrastructure investments with
cost estimations. The mitigation measures also include a Pest Management Strategy and Plan which will
be implemented under the current project. These measures as well as the environment monitoring and
evaluation plan are detailed in the PIM. The proposed measures, together with the social mitigation
measures would be the centerpiece of the local Environmental and Social Management Plans (ESMP) that
would be prepared by the CDCs in the individual beneficiary communities.  The measures and
environmental aspects are also fully integrated in the criteria for sub-project eligibility in order to ensure
compliance by implementing beneficiary groups and partner agencies.
Stakeholders Consultations
5.4.2 The EA team has traveled extensively in Rwanda to consult with farmers, local administrations,
and local organizations that are active in the rural areas during the preparation of the environmental
assessment. The EA was carried out in close collaboration with the technical services of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry, and Animal Resources and in consultation with the Ministries of Local
Administration and Social Affairs, Energy, Water and Natural Resources, and Land, Human Resettlement,
and Environment. The consultations have also included the major donor institutions and international
organizations that are based in Kigali.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment' Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
5.5.1  A mechanism to monitor the environmental impact of project activities would be developed under
the project's monitoring and evaluation component and on the basis of the likely adverse environmental
impacts that have been identified in the EA as well as the guidelines contained therein for the screening and
review of sub-projects. The PSCU's Monitoring and Evaluation Division would carry out the impact
monitoring activities in collaboration with MINETERRE and local administrations and beneficiary groups
-43 -



within the framework of local Environmental Management Plans (EMP).
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
6.1.1   A social assessment has been carried out, which identified in general a series of social factors
affecting the design and implementation of the project. Social factors identified in the SA include:
*   a strong tradition of self-help groups, community organizations and farmers' associations, and
a strong willingness to contribute to project activities;
*   the civil war and its aftermath, resulting in a large number of vulnerable groups, such as,
orphans, youth-headed households, landless, widows and elders without assistance, disabled,
and HIV/AIDS affected people;
* for the women, the poor and other vulnerable groups, access to markets and credit are the main
bottlenecks for the proposed crop intensification and commercialization.
6.1.2  It is, nonetheless, not clear yet either from the social assessment report or from the findings of the
field visits undertaken so far, to what degree the Bank's social safeguard policies would be triggered, if
any, and what are the mitigating measures to be developed.  Consequently, project site-specific
communities need assessment in the early phases of the project that would be carried out to provide more
information on the target areas' poverty profiles and the project's potential social impacts. Subsequently,
social guidelines would be developed, which, together with the environmental guidelines, would be included
in the local ESMPs to be used in the screening and monitoring of sub-project activities during
implementation. To assure quality at entry, gender issues would be mainstreamed in the project through the
participation of women representatives in local and prefectural committees and through the planned
involvement of women's organizations in project activities.
6.1.3  Due to the crucial role of women in Rwanda's agriculture, the project envisages training in
agricultural techniques adapted to women's daily task schedules. The assessment has identified that
women involved in off-farm activities or marketing of farm products would need support in the following
areas:  technical production, appropriate technologies, credit acquisition, management of women's
organizations. The training would also incorporate non-farming topics, such as, health and nutrition and
practices on prevention of AIDS, waterborne diseases, malaria, and childcare. Training activities would be
conducted in collaboration with MIGEPROFE. SLOs may be the most appropriate channel for this
technical assistance. A number of these organizations, that are active in the areas of rural development and
natural resources management, have been identified during the preparation and are currently participating
in the implementation of the pilot project on Agricultural and Rural Market Development Project
(ARMDP).
6.1.4   Access to funding through commercial credit, matching grants, and revolving loan mechanisms for
the rural poor would lay the groundwork for strengthening sustainable economic activities for farmers and
lending institutions. The availability of funding would also enhance opportunities for profitable off-farm
activities.
- 44 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
6.2.1  In line with the GOR decentralization strategy, the local population would be incorporated in all
phases of the project. By using the same implementation arrangements as under the CRDP, the project
would enable local communities and beneficiaries to fully participate in the choice, design, and
implementation of sub-projects. Specific capacity-building needs would be identified in close collaboration
with local cornmunities and beneficiary groups. Indigenous systems of self-help, resource mobilization and
organization would be incorporated in individual sub-project preparation, implementation, and monitoring
arrangements. This would be critical in ensuring that the poorest member of the target community are not
priced out from the project. Prior to the implementation of project activities, target populations would
benefit from information sharing and consultation with PSCU and their respective CDCs on the choice of
activities and the type and level of required participation (cash, in kind contribution, and/or labor) as well
as future risks and benefits resulting from project activities. For infrastructure sub-projects (marshland and
hill-side rehabilitation, small-scale public rural infrastructure, and integrated ecosystem management),
farmers and other beneficiary groups would be informed about the costs involved in building (their
individual or communal contribution) and maintaining said infrastructure.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
6.3.1  SLOs would have a significant role to play in training and follow up technical support to project
activities.  In developing collaborative arrangements, priority would be given to SLOs with strong
background and proven track record in marshland development, training in management and marketing, and
processing and storage of products. The SLOs would be expected to mainstream most training and
participatory self-evaluation activities into the farmers organizations operations, ensuring in this way
sustainability and ownership. For the same reason, beneficiary groups and associations would be closely
involved in designing and implementing project training activities.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
6.4.1   Given the weak capacity of the technical institutions involved, training and other capacity
strengthening activities would be a priority. The technicians would need to be sensitized to client-oriented
approaches in dealing with rural target groups in a socially sensitive context. The project proposes to
mitigate institutional constraints by implementing the following:
* site-specific and communal planning process would be developed through local committees in
order to increase community cohesion and to strengthen communal decision-making;
*   community members and technical service agents would be trained in participatory methods of
project design, implementation, and monitoring.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
6.5.1   A participatory monitoring and evaluation system would be developed before effectiveness and
beneficiaries trained in M&E processes through the project and in collaboration with qualified SLOs during
implementation.
-45 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Pol000f 0Q   0i,                           Appll%ab     *W 7 7it'ty
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
7.2.1  A pest management plan has already been drafted under the ongoing Agricultural and Rural
Market Development Project and is to be discussed with government for implementation before
effectiveness of the proposed program. Furthermore, as indicated earlier, an environmental assessment has
been carried out to ensure that program activities are compliant with the safeguard policies on environment.
Finally, although not applicable to this project, the objectives of OP 4.37 have been used as guidelines in
preparing the marshland rehabilitation component of the proposed program.
-46 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The program would be prepared keeping the following factors in mind, as being critical to ensuring
sustainability: (i) demand-responsiveness of program activities; (ii) simplicity of the design of sub-project;
(iii) replicability of project activities; (iv) participatory and decentralized implementation; (v) capacity
building through experimenting and learning by doing.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk-                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
(i) The evidence of leases to beneficiaries  S        (i) The adoption of legal provision that would
for a period sufficiently long enough to              ensure farmer access to and use of rehabilitated
allow them to efficiently and sustainably             farmland through transferable leases of at least
carry out subprojects activities will be a            20 years would constitute a condition of
criteria for subproject eligibility under the         effectiveness for the project.
component on rehabilitation of farmed
marshlands and hill-side areas.
(ii) The government's privatization is      M         (ii) If the privatization program has not been
successful, leading to a withdrawal of the            completed by project effectiveness, the first task
current parastatals from the management               under the export promotion component would be
of the coffee and tea sectors and takeover            to work with government to define the future
of factories by private entrepreneurs.                relationship between farmer organizations and
the privatized factories before new activities are
carried out under the present component of the
proposed program.
(iii) The ongoing pilot project (ARMDP)     N         (iii) The project is progressing satisfactorily and
provides workable solutions with respect              according to plan. Its medium-term review and
to the promotion of private-sector based               second year annual evaluation would provide
systems of advisory services for                      lessons to fine-tune, if necessary, the approach
small-holder farmers.                                 which is being considered for the current
program.
(iv) The pilot project (CRDP) provides      N         (iv) CRDP has been under implementation for a
workable solutions with respect to                    few years now. As part of the program
community-based planning and                          preparation, its modalities would be analyzed
management of economic infrastructure.                and any necessary adjustment reflected in the
design of the infrastructure improvement
activities under the program.
-47 -



(v) Low cost technologies exist on-shelf     N          (v) ISAR and other R&D institutions in Rwanda
or can be introduced at reasonable costs               have developed low technology process and
to promote off-farm productive activities.             equipment that will be inventoried and adapted,
if necessary, for their dissemination under the
program.
From Components to Outputs
(i) The relationship between farmers and     S         (i) Program would establish a consultative
local administrations with respect to                  framework that would allow for transparency
access and use of marshlands is                        and accountability with respect to the planning
transparent and builds trust around                     and implementation of program activities. The
project activities.                                    PSCU would regularly monitor the relationships
between the different beneficiary groups and
work with them and the government to solve any
problems that might emerge.
(ii) The level of unit cost of production is  N        (ii) The environment for production and trading
the most important determninant of export              would be monitored regularly in order to address
competitiveness.                                       in a timely manner any changes that would
undermine the competitiveness of the target
sector.
(iii) The private sector will find enough    M         (iii) The incentive environment would be
incentives and resources to participate                monitored to enable the project coordination and
significantly in agricultural services                 management team to work with government,
delivery.                                              local administrations, and beneficiaries to
remove any policy or institutional distortions
that would affect the willingness of the private
sector to invest in agricultural services.
(iv) Farmers and other private sector        S         (iv) Prospective studies would be carried out to
operators are willing to adopt new AMT                  identify the AMT technology in which there is
technologies.                                          enough interest among potential private
investors and end users.
(v) The regulatory framework for             N          (v)The internal trading law that has been
marketing and the movement of goods                    adopted recently by parliament has been cleared
across local markets remains adequate.                 of all the measures that would disrupt the
operation of local markets and thus affect the
project's outcome. It does not, however,
eliminate the possibility of future measures that
may conflict with the project objectives.
Changes in this area would be monitored and
necessary adjustment brought about through
dialogue with GOR.
-48 -



(vi) There are enough entrepreneurs             M          (vi) The response of private entrepreneurs to the
willing to invest in off-farm productive                   incentives offered by the program would be
activities in the rural areas.                             monitored in order to undertake any necessary
adjustment and / or design information and
education campaigns to motivate private
investment.
(vii) There is sufficient idle labor which      N          (vii) Should any critical skill category prove to
has the necessary skills and which can be                  be deficient, the project would link up with local
employed in off-farm activities,                           training institutions to upgrade the skills of
concerned beneficiary groups.
(viii) The Program Coordination and             M          (viii) The Unit would use subcontracting with
Monitoring Unit will have adequate                         qualified local organizations to augment its
human resources and sound financial                        capacities to implement project activities that
management and monitoring systems.                         cannot be undertaken at the local level by
beneficiaries. The performance of the financial
management and monitoring systems would be
assessed regularly through close supervision and
any necessary measures taken to ensure
effectiveness.
Overall Risk Rating                             M          In addition to very close supervision,
particularly during the first two years of the
project, a strong M&E team will be established
within the Project Support and Coordination
Unit (PSCU). This combination would ensure
close monitoring of eventual project risks as
well as timely reaction to address these risks.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
- 49 -



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)   Initial payment of the equivalent of $50,000 by Government into the Project Account opened at
BNR for the project's counterpart funds;
(b)    Establishment of a Project Support and Coordination Unit (PSCU) within MINAGRI and
recruitment of staff having qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA;
(c)    Adoption by Government of a Project Implementation Manual (PIM) that is satisfactory to
IDA;
(d)    Signing of a Subsidiary Financing Agreement (SFA) between BNR and Government under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA;
(e)    Appointment of a Project Auditor under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA;
(f)    Establishment of an adequate Financial Management System (FMS) that is satisfactory to IDA
and which ensures proper monitoring and execution of project activities; and
(g)    The furnishing to IDA of a satisfactory Procurement Plan (PP) for the first year of the Project.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
- 50 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
D I 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
g 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
(a) Subsidiary Financing Agreement (SFA) between BNR and Government; and
(b) Adequate Financial Management System (FMS) established.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
I 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
OP/BP 10.02 requires that the cost of the annual audit be financed from the operating cost category. The
Task Team has,, at the Borrower's request, agreed that these costs be disbursed from the consultants'
services category.
Ousma  Badiiane                / Josejh Baah-Dwomoh                 Emmanuel Mbi
Tiam Lieader                      Sector Manager                    Country Director
- 51 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
RWANDA: RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Hierarchy of Objcie IYdic.. ...                        MnlQn &0 Evaluaton ....    Critical oAssuomptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Revitalization of the rural  1) Average household incomes I)Reports based on updates of i) Government pursues
economy to increase rural    among beneficiary farmers are the baseline rural household   policies of political and
incomes, reduce poverty, and  20%, 50 %, and 100 %     survey at the end of phases I,  macroeconomic stability and
reinforce national stability.   higher than the baseline by the II, and ITI;        sustains the liberalization of
end of phase I, II, and III,                           the domestic economy.
respectively;
2) The share of population    2) Reports based on updates of
under the poverty line among  the 1998 Poverty Assessment
beneficiary farmers are 15%, at the end of phases 1, II, and
20 %, and 50 % lower than   IIl.
the baseline by the end of
phase I, II, and III,
respectively.
- 52 -



Hkrchy of PbJ.ptWs    .           _              .  M!t          ftaiu2 ton 4R!al Assumptions
Program Purpose:          End-of-Program Indicators:  Progmm reports:           (from Purpose to Goal)
Raise the productivity and    1) Average crop yields per   1-2) Reports based on updates ii) The main constraints to
increase the employment of   hectare among beneficiary    of the baseline rural  productivity growth are of
resources that the rural poor  farmers are 50%, 100 %, and  household survey at the end of technological and financial
own or depend on for their   200 % higher than the   phases I, II, and III.     nature.
livelihood, primarily land and baseline by the end of phase l;
labor, through increased  11, and III, respectively;
transfer of financial and
technical resources.      2) Average returns per labor
unit among beneficiary
farmers are 20%, 50 %, and
100 % higher than the
baseline by the end of phase 1;
II, and 111, respectively.
Program Phasing:          See Table I of Section A   See Table I of Section A   iii) The Agricultural and
Rural Market Development
PHASE 1: 2001-2005                                                              Project (ARMDP) provides
workable solutions with
Create the institutional,                                                       respect to: (a) the development
technical, and infrastructural                                                  of input distribution and local
capacities that are needed to                                                   output marketing systems; and
support the generation and                                                      (b) the facilitation of farmer
adoption of efficient cropping                                                  access to credit for modern
and post-harvest technologies.                                                  inputs;
PHASE 11: 2006-2011                                                             iv) The Community
Reintegration and
Accelerate the intensification                                                  Development Project (CRDP)
and commercialization of                                                        provides workable solutions
agricultural production                                                         with respect to
community-based planning
PHASE III: 2012-2017                                                            and management of economic
infrastructure;
Promote the diversification of
economic activities in rural                                                    v) Performance triggers for
areas and expand the                                                            subsequent loans are met at
productive employment of                                                        the end of Phase One (see
available resources.                                                            Table 2 of Section B).
53 -



i4t~~~~~rar~~~~h $  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~              !      Et'ti ni            a           o
GEF Operational Program:
Broad national framework   Consensus for coordinated
for sustainable management action among stakeholders is
of natural resources is in    achieved.
place.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                Indicators:
Farmers, other target private  1) Marshland / hill-side and  a) Quarterly project progress  The ongoing pilot project
sector operator groups, and   export crop farmers have  reports;                (ARMDP) provides workable
the relevant government   adopted new and improved                              solutions with respect to the
institutions have acquired the  cropping technologies,  b) Supervision reports;  provision of advisory services
basic institutional and   including IPM;                                        to small-holder farmers.
technical capacities that are                        c) Evaluation reports
needed for: (i) the       2) The quantities of fertilizers
development of more effective used per capita and per
service delivery and      hectare among beneficiary
infrastructure maintenance   farmers are 50% higher than
systems; and (ii) the efficient  the baseline;
management of export crop
and marshland/hill-side area  3) The quantities and shares
farming.                  of marketed crop output per
household among beneficiary
farmers are 50% higher than
the baseline.
- 54 -



Hi0rcry of Obijmtives           Indifats           VOWno    & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Global Objective:
Conservation and          Adequate policy,          a) Quarterly project progress
sustainable use of natural   institutional, and regulatory  reports;
resources through integrated framework for sustainable
managment of critical     resource is is in place.  b)Supervision reports;
ecosystenms.                                        c) Evaluation reports
- 55 -



Key00:   Petfrmanei     
H1ierarchyO ofObjectives           lndicatos rMontring &6 AEvaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each            Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Rehabilitation of Farmed
Marshland and Hillside
Areas
Effective mechanisms to     1) At least 500 FASDOs have a) Quarterly project progress  i) The prevailing legal and
empower: (i) beneficiary   been trained in the          reports;                   regulatory framework is
farmers to efficiently manage  management of marshland                              conducive to increased farmer
marshland / hillside crops;    and hillside crops;      b) Supervision reports;    investment in land and water
and (ii) private operators to                                                      infrastructure.
intervene in land and water   2) The total area of      c) Evaluation reports
infrastructure construction    rehabilitated farmed
maintenance have been      marshlands and hillsides have
established.               reached 4,000 ha and 2,000
ha, respectively.
2. Integrated Management
of Critical Ecosystems
Improved soil, water and    1) National Strategy and   a) Quarterly project progress
fertility conservation     Action Plan for conservation  reports;
techniques have been adopted  and sustainable use of
by beneficiary farmers.    wetlands are ready and under b) Supervision reports;
implementation;
The capacity of local                                   c) Evaluation reports
communities to manage      2) Ramsar Convention by
critical ecosystems have been  GOR;
strengthened.
3) The shares of participating
CDCs that have developed and
started implementation of
I/ This component is to be  management plans for critical
irmplemented under the GEF
operation which is currently being
finalized by MINI TERE in   reach x% and y%,
collaboration with MINA GRI  respectively; I/
4) The Environmental
Information and database are
operational.
- 56 -



3. Promotion of Commercial
and Export Agriculture
The capacities of export crop
farmers to manage their     1) At least 12 farner-owned  a) Quarterly project progress  ii) The government's
commercial and technical   Commercial Enterprises and  reports;                     privatization is successful,
activities have been       Technical Support Entities                               leading to a withdrawal of the
strengthened.              (CETSEs) have been set up;   b) Supervision reports;     current parastatals from the
management of the coffee and
2) The established CETSEs   c) Evaluation reports      tea sectors and take over of
operate satisfactorily;                                 factories by private
entrepreneurs.
3) The unit costs per hectare
of export crops among
beneficiary farmers are 10%
lower than the baseline;
4) The total output of export
crops among beneficiary
farmers is 25% higher than
the baseline.
5) The quantities of tea and
coffee exports are at least 25%
higher than the baseline;
6) The quantities of exported
alternative crops are at least
100% higher than the
baseline.
- 57 -



4. Support to Agricultural
Services Delivery Systems
The capacities of lead public
institutions, farmer         I) The lead research and     a) Quarterly project progress  iii) The ongoing pilot project
associations, and specialized   extension institutions have    reports;                (ARMDP) provides workable
local organizations (SLOs)    been restructured and                                    solutions with respect to the
have been sufficiently       strengthened;                b) Supervision reports;      promotion of private-sector
strengthened to participate in          I                                              based systems of advisory
the delivery of research and    2) At least 500 farmer    c) Evaluation reports.       services for small-holder
extension services.          organizations [Agricultural                               farmers.
Services Delivery
Organizations (FASDOs)]
have been trained to
participate in services
delivery;
3) At least 80 Private
Agribusiness Services
Delivery Organizations
(PASDOs) have been trained
to participate in services
delivery;
4) At least 80% of FASDO
member farmers have adopted
improved farming practices,
including IPM.
- 58 -



5. Small-scale Infrastructure
Development
Capacities of local
communities and private    I) At least 100 local       a) Quarterly project progress  iv) The ongoing pilot (CRDP)
sector operators to construct  community organizations have reports;               provides workable solutions
and maintain transport and    been trained in the                                  with respect to
post-harvest equipment and   maintenance and management b) Supervision reports;    community-based planning
infrastructure have been   of local infrastructure;                                and management of economic
strengthened.                                          c) Evaluation reports.      infrastructure.
2) At least 50 private sector
operators have been trained in
the construction and
maintenance of post-harvest
and transport infrastructure
and equipment;
3) At least 18 marketing
facilities have been
constructed;
4) Alternative Appropriate
Means of Rural Transport
(AMT) have been pilot tested
and disseminated during
phase 1.
6. Promotion of off-farm
productlve activities in rural
areas
Higher levels of off-farm  1) Off-farm Sector Strategies a) Quarterly project progress  v) Low cost technologies exist
employment and incomes have and Development Plans      reports;                    on-shelf or can be introduced
been achieved.             (OSDP) have been prepared                               at reasonable costs to promote
and successfully tested in 5    b) Supervision reports;  off-farm productive activities;
Prefectures by local
administrations;           c) Evaluation reports.
- 59-



7. Program Support and
Coordination
Effective implementation,    1) Baseline Rural Sector  a) Quarterly project progress
coordination, and monitoring  Survey (BRSS) implemented  reports;
of program activities.     in Year One;
b) Supervision reports;
2) Baseline indicator data
base available by end of Year c) Evaluation reports
One;
3) Program Monitoring Guide
(PMG) and Impact Evaluation
Guide (IEG) available by
middle of Year One;
4) Adequate level of quality
of monitoring and evaluation
activities achieved by the end
of Year One;
5) Timeliness and quality of
project and financial
management reporting
maintained throughout project
life;
6) Effectiveness in
coordinating the activities of
various executing agencies
and beneficiary communities
maintained throughout project
life.
- 60 -



Key Performance
I Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components i       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1. Rehabilitation of farmed   US$79.00 M
Marshland and Hill-side areas (Phase 1. US$13.97 M)
I.I Financing of small-scale                          a) Quarterly project progress  a) Quarterly project progress
drainage and irrigation                               reports;                   reports;
infrastructure on farmed
marshlands;                                           b) Supervision reports;    b) Supervision reports;
1.2 Financing of soil and                             c) Evaluation reports.     c) Evaluation reports.
natural resources
conservation R&D and
infrastructure on marshlands
and hill-sides;
1. 3 Advisory services on
cropping and water
management technologies;
1.4 Training offarmer groups
and other target private sector
operators in construction,
management, and
maintenance of lancd and
water conservation
infrastructure;
1.5 Institutional support to
producer organizations and
community groups.
- 61 -



2. Integrated Management of US$15.00 M
Critical Ecosystems         (Phase 1 US$5. 00 M)
2.]1 Development of an                                  a) Quarterly project progress
enabling environment for                                reports;
sustainable resource use:
policy framework, regulations,                          b) Supervision reports;
institutional support.
2.2 Development and                                     c) Evaluation reports
implementation of
community-based integrated
management plans for critical
econosystems (wetlands,
drylands, and mountain
areas).
2.3 Creation of an
Envrionmental Information
System (EIS).
2.4 Capacity building and
institutional strengthening to
support a decentralized
integrated management of
natural resources.
3. Promotion of Commercial US$13.00 M
and Export Agriculture     (Phase I. US$10.53M)
3.1 Provision ofadvisory                               a) Quarterly project progress  ii) The level of unit cost of
ost-harvest technologies to                            reports;                     production is the most
post-harvest technologies to                                     important determinant of
farmers and other private                               b) Supervision reports;     export competitiveness.
sector operators;
3.2 Financing ofpost-harvest                            c) Evaluation reports.
R&D and infrastructure;
3.3 Financing of technical
assistance and grants to
strengthen the capacities of
export crop farmer
organizations;
3.4 Financing of technical
assistance and capital
investment to establish
farmer-owned Ccommercial
Enterprises and technical
Support Entities (CETSEs).
-62 -



4. Support to Agricultural   US$13.00 M
Services Delivery Systems    (Phase 1: US$9.59 M)
4.1 Financial and technical                            a) Quarterly project progress  iii) The private sector will
assistance to private and                               reports;                   find enough incentives and
restructured leadpublic R&D                                                        resources to participate
institutions to carry out                              b) Supervision reports;     significantly in agricultural
adaptative research on                                                              services delivery.
cropping, conservation, and                             c) Evaluation reports
post-harvest technol'ogies;
4.2 Financial support and
training offarmer
organizations on techniques o
participatory research and
extension services delivery;
4.3 Technical assistance to
private operators willing to
invest in services delivery
activities.
5. Small-Scale Rutal       US$22.00 M
Infrastructure Development   (Phase I: US$9.81 M)
5.1 Institutional ancdfinancial                         a) Quarterly project progress  iv) Farmers and other private
assistance support to                                  reports;                    sector operators are willing to
Community Development                                                               adopt new AMT technologies;
Committees (CDCs) to                                   b) Supervision reports;
implement conservation and                                                         v) The regulatory framework
transport infrastructure                               c) Evaluation reports.       for marketing and the
development and maintenance                                                         movement of goods across
activities;                                                                        local markets remains
adequate.
5.2 Technical assistance to
private operators willing to
invest in post-harvest,
conservation, and transport
infrastructure construction
and maintenance activities;
5.3 Financial assistance to
farmer groups for the
acquisition of post-harvest
infrastructure and
Appropriate Means of Rural
Transport (AMT);
5.4 Technical assistance to
private operators for the
construction and/or
maintenance of AMTs.
- 63 -



6. Promotion of Off-farm   US$ 10.00 M
Productive Activities in Rural (Phase 1. US$0.34 M)
Areas
6.1 Technical support to                               a) Quarterly project progress  vi) There are enough
Prefectures' ETCs and                                  reports;                    entrepreneurs willing to invest
Commune's CDCs to prepare                                                          in off-farm productive
and pilot-test local off-farm                           b) Supervision reports;     activities in the rural areas;
development strategies;
6.2 Financing of R&D for                                c) Evaluation reports       vii) There is sufficient idle
selected Finarm odufon                                                              labor which has the necessary
selected off-farm production                                                skills and which can be
activities;                                                                         employed in off-farm
activities.
6.3 Training in enterprise
development and
management,
6.4 Provision of seed-funding
andfacilitation of access to
investment credit.
7. Program Support and     US$4.0 M
Coordination                (Phase I: US$ 3. 77 M)
7.1 Establish a Project                                a) Quarterly project progress
Coordination Unit.                                     reports;
7.2 Design and implement a                             b) Supervision reports;
mechanism to effectively
coordinate the program                                 c) Evaluation reports
activities.
7.3 Carry out and regularly
update the Baseline Rural
Sector Survey.
7.4 Design and implement a
mechanism to effectively
monitor and evaluate the
program activities.
7.5 Carry out impact studies
at local and beneficiary
levels.
- 64 -



- 65 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
RWANDA: RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
1.    The main purpose of the Rural Sector Support Program (RSP) is to significantly contribute to the
efforts of the Government of Rwanda to achieve its strategic goal of revitalizing the rural economy and
thereby increasing rural incomes, reducing poverty, and reinforcing national stability. The proposed
program and its mixture of interrelated and mutually reinforcing sets of activities are guided by the
recognition that the most effective way to reduce poverty, and thus achieve the stability goal is to: (i) raise
the productivity and (ii) expand the employment of resources that the rural poor own or depend on for their
livelihood, primarily land and labor. The challenge of poverty reduction, therefore, goes beyond the
improvement of overall agricultural sector performance over a certain period or that of given crops or
sub-sectors in a more permanent manner. Significant poverty reduction can be achieved only through
sustained and broad-based growth in the portions of the economy where poor people tend to be employed.
Consequently, the efforts under the proposed program would have to extend beyond the agricultural sector
to include support for off-farm productive activities in the rural areas. Agricultural intensification and
diversification in this context is seen as the centerpiece of a growth process which is carried by the linkages
between agriculture and the rest of the rural economy.
2.     The above objective is to be achieved through the transfer of adequate financial and technical
resources to local communities and economic operators in the rural areas to provide the technology,
infrastructure, support services, and institutional capacity that are required for faster growth in the rural
economy. These resources would induce the necessary adjustments in production and consumption patterns
as well as in current technical practices that should pave the way to increased intensification and greater
commercialization of the agricultural sector. Rwanda's potential for long-term rural growth is real, but
looking at the level of agricultural technologies, the capacity of public and private R&D institutions, the
quality of commercial infrastructure in rural areas, and the level of development of the off-farm sector, one
realizes that it would take long-term efforts to effect any significant progress towards the objectives of
revitalizing the rural economy. The proposed program, by seeking to mobilize the synergies and linkages
between critical productive sectors and promoting rural technologies and building local infrastructure,
should pave the way for long-term growth in the rural economy. It is expected that the technological,
institutional, infrastructural, and financial support that would be provided through the program would
stimulate productivity and output growth. Farmers would be induced to gradually move from producing
for household consumption, as they currently predominantly do, to producing surpluses for the growing
domestic market. Local distribution systems would respond and expand, providing new and expanded
production and consumption opportunities for both agricultural and non-agricultural goods, thereby
creating productive opportunities for economic agents within and outside of the agricultural sector. The
outlined institutional and technological changes are imbedded in an evolutionary process, the pace and
structure of which are not always fully predictable, not in any case in the current context of Rwanda's rural
sector, the dynamics of which are not well understood and documented. Consequently, there are no clear
and proven models and approaches of intervention to effect the implied transitions. All this limits the
possibility of detailed ex-ante planning and design of the program of intervention.
3.     Against this background, the proposed program has opted for an approach that reflects the strong
need for long-term orientation, flexibility, and adjustability in terms of the time frame and structure of its
operations. It would be implemented in three phases covering a total of 14 years. The first phase, which
would go from 2001 to 2005, would focus on building the institutional and technical capacities that are
needed to support the generation and adoption of efficient cropping and post-harvest technologies and set
the stage for an acceleration of the pace of rural growth. The subsequent intermediary phase from 2006 to
-66 -



2011 would deepen and broaden the program activities in order to accelerate the process of intensification
and commercialization of agricultural production. Finally, the third and last phase from 2012 to2017
would build on the stimulus resulting from faster growth in agricultural production to promote the
diversification of economic activities in the rural areas and expand the productive employment of available
resources.  The proposed staggered approach would allow the prograrn to expand its activities as
experience is accumulated, the understanding of the working of the different systems in the rural economy
expands, and the targeted beneficiaries develop new skills, adjust to new challenges, and exploit new
opportunities. The incremental approach reduces risk and raises the likelihood of successful outcomes, as
subsequent phases of the program are designed and implemented on the basis of lessons learned and results
achieved from preceding activities.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$13.97 million
Rehabilitation of Farmed Marshland and Hill-side Areas - US$13.97 million in Phase I (US$79
million overall)
4.    Farmed marshland account for 12 percent of cultivated areas in Rwanda and are part of a
production and ecological system that includes neighboring hill-sides. Only about 5 percent of farmed
marshlands or 5,000 ha have ever been developed adequately to allow for improved fanning practices. Of
these, only 20 percent still have a somewhat decent infrastructure. Consequently, priority would be given
during the current first phase of the program to the rehabilitation of the remaining 4,000 ha, excluding
about 1,500 ha that are being rehabilitated under two IFAD-funded projects. In addition, MINAGRI has
another 7,000 ha that have been improved marginally and are, therefore, still being farmed quite
inefficiently. Technical assessment of most of the areas of about 9,500 ha has already been carried out and
development plans prepared, following the inventory of marshland and watershed areas in 1993. A data
bank has been set up, which contains detailed technical data sheets for most of these areas, including
geographic location, population characteristics, size, hydrology, agro-climatology, pedology, lithology, and
land use patterns.
5.    The objective of the present component would be to establish effective mechanisms to: (a)
facilitate the adoption by beneficiary farmers of efficient and sustainable technologies and practices to
profitably manage marshland and hill-side crops; and (b) encourage and develop the skills of private
operators to intervene in land and water infrastructure construction and maintenance. Farmed marshlands
account for about 50 percent of the 165,000 ha marshland in Rwanda. The target under the current
component would be to rehabilitate and develop the infrastructure on 25 percent of the currently farmed
marshland, about 20,000 ha, over the 14-year period. These objectives would be achieved through the
following activities:  (i) financing of small-scale drainage and irrigation infrastructure on farmed
marshlands; (ii) financing of soil and natural resources conservation R&D and infrastructure on
marshlands and hill-sides; (iii) advisory services on cropping and water management technologies; (iv)
training of farmer groups and other target private sector operators in construction, management, and
maintenance of land and water conservation infrastructure; and (v) institutional support to producer
organizations and community groups.
6.    In the technical assessment that has been carried out during the preparation of the current project,
marshland areas have been classified into 5 different types according to the type of small-scale irrigation
work that needs to be carried out. The type of work that would be carried out in a given marshland would
depend on: (i) the potential to profitably utilize the new infrastructure, which is linked to: (ii) the
institutional and technical capacity of beneficiary farmers to grow high value crops; and (iii) their
- 67 -



willingness and ability to invest in infrastructure maintenance.
Type I (Traditional). This would involve simple infrastructure that is adequate for continued
traditional exploitation of marshlands, consisting primarily of calibration works on a central canal to
improve outflow of excess water;
Type 2 (Improved). Type 2 would include complementary work, normally as part of a multi-stage
program to be implemented gradually, which would allow for better management and distribution of
irrigation water. The infrastructure would include lateral canals on a traditional type marshland;
Type 3 (Repair). This would consist primarily in limited repair and reactivation of existing but
damaged irrigation and drainage infrastructure, without adding new infrastructure;
Type 4 (Rehabilitation). This type of work would include extensive repair of entire irrigation and
drainage systems that have deteriorated significantly over time;
Type 5 (Modernization). The final type would involve more elaborate irrigation and drainage
infrastructure, including the construction of water harvesting and storage infrastructure to allow for better
water distribution and multi-cropping.
7.     Rehabilitation work on farmed hill-side areas would include two basic interventions: (i) progressive
terracing, and (ii) radical terracing. The former would be considered only on slopes of less than 12 percent.
Despite its relatively lower cost, the technical assessment has pointed out a number of disadvantages
associated with progressive terracing, which should limit the extent to which the technique would be used.
Radical terracing, on the other hand, would be used on slopes that are between 12 percent and 55 percent.
Although it is more costly, this technique yields results more quickly and is more sustainable. Moreover,
its impact on productivity is far superior. Results obtained under ongoing projects indicate a doubling of
yields already during the first year of the establishment of radical terraces. The rehabilitation of farmed
hill-sides areas would take place in connection with the rehabilitation of neighboring marshlands. It is
expected that 30 ha of hill-side areas would be rehabilitated for every 50 ha of marshlands, yielding a total
of 12,000 ha of hill-side areas for the 20,000 ha of marshlands by the end of the 14-year program. For the
first phase, with an expected total area of rehabilitated marshlands between 4,000 ha and 6,000 ha, the size
of rehabilitated hillside areas would range between 2,400 ha and 3,600 ha.
Project Component 2 - US$5.00 million
1.2. Integrated Management of Critical Ecosystems. US$S5 million in Phase I (US$15 million overall).
8.     The primary objective of the proposed GEF activity, for which the RSP would serve as a baseline
operation, is the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources through the integrated management
of critical ecosystems, with emphasis on: (a) wetlands/watershed management; (b) dryland ecosystem
management; and (c) reducing pressure on the Protected Areas through community-based management of
the buffer zones (which presently only exist around Nyungwe Forest) and areas adjacent to the protected
areas (mountain ecosystems). This component would be developed further into a parallel GEF operation to
be finalized by MINITERE in collaboration with MINAGRI. Its objective would be accomplished through
three main clusters of activities:
(i)    Creation of an enabling environment for sustainable resource use. GEF resources would initially
focus on the conservation and wise use of wetland ecosystems. During the implementation of the
GEF-supported components, policy, regulatory and institutional gaps and requirements for the
- 68 -



conservation and sustainable management of other critical ecosystems, particularly dryland and
mountain ecosystems, would be identified. The activities under this sub-component would include.
development of a comprehensive National Wetlands Policy; preparation of a National Strategy
and Action Plan for the conservation and sustainable use of wetlands; assessment of' the
biodiversity of critical wetlands and identification of wetlands of global significance and priority
areas/hotspots for specific intervention; ratification by the Government of Rwanda of the Ramsar
Convention; anld technical assistance and training;
(ii)   Development and implementation of community-based integrated management plans for critical
ecosystems (wetland, dryland and mountain ecosystems). While the policy and institutional
framework will be strengthened under the above sub-component, the development of integrated
management plans for specific valley-bottoms and watersheds, working at field level in close
collaboration with the local communities. would be the focus of this component. Depending on the
results of the GEF PDF Block B, other critical ecosystems may be included as pilot activities. The
proposed approach would be consistent with OP 12, which facilitates prioritization and sequencing
of needed policy reforms and investment and other interventions. The project would also promote
inter-sectoral and patrticipatory approaches to natural resources management and planning on an
ecosystem scale. The GEF resources would cover the incremental costs associated with controlling
land clegradation and incorporating biodiversity conservation (including agricultural biodiversity)
objectives into the overall project's activities. The introduction of improved management and
conser-vation practices in upland watersheds would provide multiple benefits, including the
protection of inland, transboundary and international water resources, conservation of biological
diversity, soil and water conservation as well as increase (soil) carbon sequestration. The specific
activities under the present sub-component would include: incorporation of conservation and
sustainable management criteria in current land use, agricultural and environmental policies:
demarcalion canCd r ehabilitation of degraded critical habitats and ecosystems of global
signij,icance; introduction of pilot activities testing sustainable resource management technologies
to protect biodiversitv and arrest land and water degradation; formulation of community-based
management plans for critical habitats and adjacent areas, preparation of integrated plans to be
implemeneted at f/arm aond commrnunity levels for sustainable land management. soil fertility
management, waler consernation and management, and erosion control; preparation of one or
more watershed-based integrated mnaniagement plan(s) (development-cum-conservation); and
identificationi of appropriate incentive measures to stimulate and maintain local and community
participation  and inteerest.
(iii)  Creation of an Environment Information System (EIS) and a program for monitoring physical,
ecolog,ical, and socio-economic changes in critical ecosystems of Rwanda. The specific target under
this sub-component would be to develop an integrated environmental database and infonrnation
systern (EIS) which would facilitate the assembling and flow of information and data within
Rwarda and internationally. The EIS would enable the creation, analysis, dissemination, and
application of environmental data and information relating to natural resource management to meet
the needs of decision-makers at national, regional and local levels, and for the benefit of a wide
range of users. A reliable database would be used to support more informed and effective
management decisions on a wide range of issues, such as sustainable agricultural production
systems, wetlands conservation and management, biodiversity conservation, rangeland management,
foreslt management, soil and water conservation planning, monitoring ecological changes and trends,
ecosystem planning and management, among others. Potential users include ministries concerned
with agricultural development, environmental and natural resources management, regional and local
decision-makers, universities, research institutions, NGOs, donor community, and the general
- 69 -



public. Individual activities under the sub-component would include: creation of a standardized,
integrated, environmental information system and database; development of a program to
monitor the changing condition of the natural environment, including physical, ecological and
socio-economic changes in critical ecosystems of Rwanda; design of a clearing-house mechanism
to facilitate information exchange and partnerships among the different stakeholders, including
links to the Clearing-house Mechanism ((O:M.') of thcr UN Convention on Biological Diversity
(CBD).
(iv)  capacity-building and institutional strengthening at central, Prefecture, and local levels in integrated
natural resources management. Since 1997, the Government of Rwanda has been in the process of
decentralizing its public sector agencies, including those charged with environmental and natural
resources conservation and use. GEF resources under the current sub-component would be used to
target the GEF-funded components of the project, and fill gaps in technical expertise and training.
Since the training and capacity-building activities of the RSP are still being elaborated, those that
will be financed with GEF funds will be identified during the PDF Block B phase and will be closely
coordinated with the RSP. Identification of the specific target audience will be dependent on the
selection of RSP project sites.   Linkages and collaborative training and environmental
awareness-raising activities would also be developed with the UNDP GEF Protected Areas project.
The specific activities to be carried out are the following: participatory mechanisms for the
sustainable use and management of natural resources; capacity-building and institutional support
at the national, Prefecture, and  local levels; and    environmental and  biodiversity
awareness-raising/education at all levels.
Project Component 3 - US$ 10.53 million
1.3. Promotion of Commercial and Export Agriculture. US$10.53 million in Phase I (US$13 million
overall)
9.     The main objective under this component would be to raise competitiveness and expand output in
the export sectors. The two main export sectors of Rwanda, coffee and tea, are currently going through
important institutional changes. Both sectors are producing and exporting well below their potential. In
addition, there are several private entrepreneurs who are trying to develop alternative export crops. The
program would seek to reinvigorate the tea and coffee sectors and foster growth in the emerging export
sub-sectors.  This would be achieved through progress on three fronts:  (i) higher productivity in
production; (ii) lower unit cost and higher quality in the processing sectors; and (iii) greater access to
export markets. With the ongoing reforms in the tea and coffee sectors, traditional export crop farners
would face the challenge of taking over the management of all commercial and technical activities that are
currently the responsibility of the two parastatals in the tea and coffee sectors, respectively, OCIR-The and
OCIR-Caf. One cannot expect the private operators in these sectors to render the same services without
compromising the commercial independence of private farmers and hence future profitability of tea and
coffee production. Furthermore, both farmers and exporters are still learning the skills and techniques of
producing and marketing the new export crops. The support that would be provided under the current
component would allow farmers to: (i) raise productivity in the traditional export sectors; and (ii) acquire
the necessary commercial and technical capacities to produce and market the new crops.
10.    USAID is to undertake complementary activities to support the private operators willing to invest
in the export of both the traditional and alternative export crops. The support to exporters would focus on
the following areas: (i) market research and customer identification; (ii) access to pre-export finance; (iii)
product development and quality and processing R&D; and (iv) business partnerships. Consequently, the
planned support under the current project would consist primarily of technical advice to farmers on
- 70 -



cropping and post-harvest technologies and facilitation of access to resources for investment in technical
infrastructure and commercial activities. That support would include: (i) provision ofadvisory services on
production and post-harvest technologies to farmers and other private sector operators; (ii) financing of
post-harvest R&D and infrastructure; (iii) technical advisory services and matching-grants to strengthen the
capacities of export crop farmer organizations; and (iv) financing of technical assistance and capital
investment to establish farmer-owned Commercial Enterprises and Technical Support Entities (CETSEs).
Project Component 4 - US$9.59 million
1.4. Support to Agricultural Services Delivery Systems. US$9.59 million in Phase I (US$13 million
overall).
11.   In addition to infrastructure and a wide range of support services, there is an inescapable need to
support agricultural research for guaranteeing an adequate provision of agricultural technology and to
promote/sustain growth in the agricultural sector. The capacities of current research and extension
institutions to generate and disseminate agricultural technologies are quite weak and need to be
strengthened substantially. The proposed program would do this in line with: (a) the govemment's option
for adaptive research; (b) the need to decentralize the system of services delivery; and (c) the necessity for
considerably greater involvement of beneficiaries in the design and dissemination of farming technologies.
The support should lead to a system that would: (i) be responsive to the needs of a wider range of clients;
(ii) take into consideration the role that the private sector can play in providing support and added value to
agricultural and livestock production; (iii) be more institutionally and financially sustainable in the
medium- to long-run, and (iii) utilize regional and international collaboration more effectively.
12.    Technology generation through adaptive research requires a minimum  level of qualified
researchers. There is, accordingly, a need for a critical mass of adequately trained scientists, covering a
sufficiently broad range of disciplines and capable of constituting a sound interface with International
Agricultural Research Centers and Sub-Regional and Regional networks. The proposed project would,
accordingly, place emphasis on rebuilding the human, institutional and financial capacity of the national
research system. It would also facilitate the transformation of the agricultural services delivery system
into an open technology generation and transfer system which would link more efficiently research and
extension and effectively exploit existing and potential national, regional and international sources of
technology. Such a system would also mobilize extension agents as well as private sector operators,
including SLOs, private R&D institutions, agribusiness companies, and farmers organizations to
experiment or produce innovative farming technology systems. A rapid assessment of the research
capacities has been carried out during appraisal and will be expanded to include a full external evaluation
of ISAR's programs, management, and personnel. The assessment would also include an evaluation of the
capacities of private sector operators to intervene in the context of the proposed participatory and
demand-driven technology generation and dissemination system. This assessment would provide the needed
elements for decision making on a targeted capacity building program and training/specialization or
redeployment of existing staff or recruitment of new staff.
13.    For the sake of long-term sustainability, the project would experiment with altemative mechanisms
of cost recovery through partnerships between research/extension service providers and farmers
organizations.  It would also provide adequate resources to strengthen the capacities of farmers
organizations to operate as credible partners to research and extension services providers. The project
would test and adapt the Farmers Fields Schools (FFS), the methodology that is being supported by FAO in
South and South-East Asia and more recently in Africa. The methodology would create, progressively, an
environment where farmers are empowered through field-based participatory research and technology
evaluation.  It is also particularly suitable for the introduction of Integrated Production and Pest
- 71 -



Management (IPPM), which is expected to yield significant economic benefits for farmers while conserving
the agricultural resource base and protecting the environment. The specific activities that would be carried
out under the current component would include the following: (i) financial and technical assistance to
strengthen the capacities of private and restructured lead public R&D institutions to borrow, adapt, and
disseminate improved cropping, conservation, and post-harvest technologies; (ii) financial support and
training of farmer organizations on techniques of participatory research and extension services delivery;
and (iii) technical assistance to private operators willing to invest in services delivery activities.
Project Component 5 - US$9.81 million
1.5. Small-scale Rural Infrastructure Development. US$9.81 million in Phase I (US$13 million
overall)
14.    Reducing the unit cost of moving goods across space and over time is as important to the
objectives of commercializing and increasing the competitiveness of Rwanda's agriculture as is the
reduction of production costs. Although they do not constitute yet the most serious obstacle to agricultural
output expansion and intensification in Rwanda, it would not be long before the quality of local transport
systems would become a major constraint to efforts of accelerating growth in the agricultural sector.
Hence, the first objective of the current phase would be to upgrade and expand small-scale transport
infrastructure in the rural areas. Rwanda has a total network of 12,000 km of roads, about half of which
(6,650 km) consist of communal roads. With the recent reform of the ministry of public works, the
Govemment of Rwanda is moving towards decentralization of road maintenance work, coupled with
sub-contracting to the private sector. Accordingly, the new Directorate of Roads (DR) does not carry out
construction or maintenance any more but focuses on planning, supervision, and control of infrastructure
works. Similarly, procurement for road construction and maintenance has been transferred to local
administrations. A Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) has been created to finance the maintenance of the
national road network. The maintenance of communal roads, on the other hand, is the responsibility of
local administrations.  Under the current component, the project would work with DR to provide
institutional, technical, and financial support to CDCs to plan and implement small road improvement and
maintenance sub-projects. DR's role would be limited to the control of norms and guidelines and the
provision of institutional support for quality control and supervision as well as training, all of which should
be based on the demand by CDCs.
15.   In addition to poor infrastructure, the potential to stimulate agricultural production as well as other
economic activities in rural areas and thereby achieving the goal of revitalizing the rural economy is also
being undermined by the rarity of adequate transport equipment in the farming sector. That potential is
further being constrained by the significantly high cost of transferring agricultural products from one
season to the next. From the point of view of the intensification objective, the cost of moving goods over
time can be as important as that of transporting them across space. Current estimates indicate that as much
as 25 percent to 30 percent of harvested quantities are lost due to inadequate post-harvest technologies.
Therefore, the component's second objective would be to facilitate both the access to adapted post harvest
infrastructure as well as Appropriate Means of Rural Transport (AMTs). Given its local specificity, the
necessary development and improvement of transport infrastructure would have to be planned and
implemented at the local level. Furthermore, it would be important to ensure that the AMTs and
post-harvest infrastructure that are introduced can be serviced locally in a technically satisfactory manner.
Consequently, the third objective would be to create the capacities among local communities and in the
private sector to construct and/or maintain the transport equipment and infrastructure in question. The
activities to achieve the above outcome would be the following: (i) institutional and financial assistance to
support the Community Development Committees (CDCs) to plan and implement the conservation and
transport infrastructure development and maintenance activities; (ii) technical assistance to private
- 72 -



operators willing to invest in conservation, post-harvest, and transport infrastructure construction and
maintenance activities; (iii) financial assistance to farmer groups for the acquisition of post-harvest
infrastructure and AMTs; (iv) technical assistance to private operators for the construction and/or
maintenance of AMTs.
Project Component 6 - US$0.34 million
1.6. Promotion of Off-farm Productive Activities in Rural Areas. US$0.34 million in Phase I (US$10
million overall)
16.    A strategy to revitalize the rural economy and reduce poverty in rural areas and the rest of the
economy would have to exploit to the maximum the synergy and linkages between agriculture and other
productive sectors in rural areas. The main sub-sectors are food processing and beverages carpentry and
sculptured products; basketry; ceramic arts and pottery, including bricks and tiles; and metal works, forge,
and jewelry. A recent survey by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry indicates that off-farm activities
employ about 13 percent of Rwanda's population and account for 5 percent of GDP. Furthermore, exports
from that sector have grown threefold between 1995 and 1998. Faster growth in these sub-sectors would
fuel demand for food and other agricultural products, thereby raising the incentives for output expansion
and injecting additional resources into the sector that would raise the capacity of farmers to invest in
productivity-raising technologies.
17.    The above interrelationships are not trivial and should receive maximum attention in the design and
implementation of the program activities. Not only are they crucial to sustain growth in the agricultural
sector, they also ensure that income growth and poverty reduction are shared broadly in the rural areas.
Accordingly, the objectives that would be pursued under the current component would be the following: (a)
the creation of additional employment and incomes and thus a direct contribution to the poverty reduction
objective; (b) the expansion of the effective demand for food and other agricultural goods and, hence, the
stimulation of production; and (c) greater responsiveness of the supply of locally produced off-farm goods.
The latter objective is important in order to avoid a situation in which the increased demand for these goods
that would result from higher agricultural productivity and incomes would be translated into higher prices,
which, in turn, would not only reduce the real value of added agricultural incomes but would also
ultimately lead to higher agricultural wages. Both would have negative implications in terms of slowing
down the pace of intensification and commercialization of agriculture. The activities through which these
objectives would be realized are: (i) preparation and piloting of local off-farm development strategies; (ii)
financing of R&D for selected off-farm production activities; (iii) training in enterprise development and
management; and (iv) provision of seed-funding and facilitation of access to investment credit.
Project Component 7 - US$3.77 million
1.7. Program Support and Coordination. US$3.77 million in Phase I (US$4.0 million overall}
19.    Given the local nature of many of its proposed interventions, the various phases of the program
would be implemented in a decentralized way in order to ensure relevance and sustainability. The
decentralized format of the project's implementation as well as the necessary involvement of several
government agencies require that great attention be given to the need for effective implementation and
coordination of all program activities. Fortunately, the project would benefit greatly from the lessons
learned and the arrangements that have been successfully tested under CRDP. A Program Support and
Coordination Unit (PSCU) would be set up within MINAGRI to serve as the technical arm of the Program
Advisory Committee (PAC) that would be chaired by MIN4AGRI and would include representatives from
the Ministry of Finance and other technical ministries as well as representatives of local administrations,
the private sector, and farmer associations. In addition to the overall management of program activities,
- 73 -



the PSCU would provide and/or coordinate the necessary technical and institutional support to beneficiary
groups and local communities to effectively implement and monitor their respective sub-projects. The three
sets of activities that are planned to this effect would include: (i) establishment of a Project Support and
Coordination Unit, including a Monitoring and Evaluation Division; (ii) design and implementation of a
mechanism to effectively coordinate the program activities; and (iii) design and implementation of a
mechanism to effectively monitor and evaluate the program activities, including a Baseline Rural Sector
Survey (BSSR) in the first year and to be updated by the end of Year 4 of the first phase.
20.    Close monitoring and regular evaluation of program activities are of critical importance for any
project but more so for one that is based on decentralized implementation. Accordingly, a separate
component would be devoted to these tasks. A special sub-unit would be set up within PSCU, the
Monitoring and Evaluation Division (MED), which would coordinate the overall M&E activities and
provide the necessary support to executing agencies and beneficiary groups to carry out the necessary
M&E activities at their respective levels.  The following activities are planned to ensure effective
monitoring and evaluation of program activities: (i) carry out and regularly update the Baseline Rural
Sector Survey; (ii) design and implement a mechanism to effectively monitor and evaluate the program
activities, both centrally and at the level of individual executing agencies and beneficiary groups; and (iii)
carry out impact studies at local and beneficiary levels. Detailed procedures for M&E are described in the
Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and would be complemented with a Program Monitoring Guide that
would be completed before effectiveness.
Proposed Mechanisms to Finance Community-driven Subprojects
21.    The proposed decentralization of the project's implementation for the sake of ownership and
sustainablity requires that appropriate instruments be found to channel financial resources to the various
beneficiaries, including farmers, private and public R&D institutions, private entrepreneurs, and local
communities to implement sub-projects under several of the project's components. For that purpose, it is
proposed to establish three types of funding facilities that would provide competitive grants to finance
sub-projects that would be prepared and implemented by beneficiary groups and partner agencies (BPA).
Partner Agencies are: (i) any government institution, (ii) private sector operator, or (iii) Specialized Local
Organization (SLO), that is technically qualified to assist local beneficiaries in the preparation,
implementation, and supervision of sub-projects. The proposed Facilities are: a Local Infrastructure
Facitlity (LIF); a Rural Investment Facility (RIF); and a Rural Technology Facility (RTF). The facilities
are operational mechanisms to finance specific clusters of activities across individual program components
that can be implemented more efficiently by beneficiary groups and partner agencies (BPA). For instance,
in order to implement certain activities under the export promotion component as well as the rural
infrastructure development and agricultural services components, BPA would have to undertake specific
investments which will require them to mobilize the necessary funding. Through the Rural Investment
Facility (RIF), financial assistance would be provided through matching grants and investment cost subsidy
to eligible beneficiaries who will prepare and submit sub-projects under any of the above components to the
Facility. Detailed sub-project cycles and the eligibility criteria for each of these facilities are presented in
the PIM.
22.    The Local Infrastructure Facility (LIF)would provide matching grants to beneficiaries to
undertake infrastructure sub-projects under the different program components. These sub-projects would
involved public goods such as roads and bridges or commercial goods of collective use, which have
significant external positive effects, such as market infrastructure. Eligible local administrations and
community-based groups (CBG) would prepare and submit sub-project proposals to PSCU, which upon
its approval, provide funding to these beneficiaries to implement the approved sub-projects. Given the
- 74 -



limited capacities of certain beneficiary groups, PSCU would work with technical ministries, in particular
through their local branches, to provide the necessary institutional and technical support. Beneficiaries
could also directly or through PSCU contract the services of private sector operators and/or specialized
local organizations (SLOs) to implement the sub-projects. Activities to be financed by the Facility would
include: (i) soil and water resources conservation infrastructure on farmed marshlands and hill-sides; (ii)
transport infrastructure development and maintenance activities; and (iii) post-harvest and other export and
marketing cost-reducing infrastructure. Simplified application procedures and approval criteria will be
presented in a Beneficiary Group Manual (LIF-BGM), which would be translated in Kinyarwanda and
made available before project effectiveness. The total IDA resources allocated to the LIF would be $9.17
M. It is assumed that the great majority of sub-projects would cost less than $75,000. IDA approval
would be required for individual sub-projects which cost more than $75,000.
23.    The Rural Investment Facility (RlF)would provide financial incentives through investment cost
subsidy to qualified private sector operators, including farmer groups, willing to invest in activities with
substantial economic or environmental externalities. For instance, investment by private entrepreneurs in
value-adding activities in the processing and conservation sectors would generate collective benefits in
terms of alleviating the demand constraint facing the agricultural sector and providing incentives for the
intensification of crop and livestock production activities, a major objective of the government's rural
development strategy. The RIF would finance sub-projects in the following activity areas: (i) the operation
of farmer-owned Commercial Enterprises and Technical Support Entities (CETSEs); (ii) processing,
conservation, and trading of crop, livestock, and forestry products; (iii) transport infrastructure
construction and maintenance activities; (iv) acquisition of Appropriate (adapted) Means of Rural
Transport (AMT) by crop, livestock and forestry farmers to be tested under pilot activities; (v) investment
by private operators in the construction and/or maintenance of AMTs and transport infrastructure; (vi)
investment by private operators in agricultural services delivery activities; and (vii) selected pilot off-farm
productive activities.
24.   IDA r esources allocated to the RIF would amount to $8.07 M. These resources would be used to
provide financial assistance and incentives through investment cost subsidy to private operators, including
farmner groups, that are willing to invest in eligible agriculture-related activities. The resources would be
channeled through the banking sector to ensure that it goes to enterpreneurs who would be helped thereby
to qualify for and obtain loans from commercial banks. The RIF would operate in the following way: once
a commercial bank has agreed to provide a loan to an eligible beneficiary to finance an eligible agribusiness
undertaking, the Facility would provide: (i) up to 40 percent of the loan for a total loan amount not
exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000; and (ii) up to 20 percent or US$100,000, whichever is less, for a
loan amount above the equivalent of US$100,000. The RIF portion of the loan would be given under the
same conditions as the commercial bank portion. Whenever the entrepreneurs make a payment, the RIF
portion of the payment is used to further reduce the commercial bank's portion of the loan principal, after
deduction of commissions for the lending bank and BNR to cover their administrative costs for managing
and supervising the RIF portion of the loan. The commission of the lending bank would be based on: (i)
the interest rate margin that is applied by the financing bank; or (ii) any other commission agreed upon by
BNR, the government, and the lending bank, and specified in the participating agreements to be signed
between BNR and the commercial banks. The payment to BNR would be based on a rate to be applied on
the outstanding balance of each subloan and which is equal to: a) the weighted twelve-month average of
the applicable, money market rate or the average inflation rate over the preceding calendar year, whichever
is lower; or b) such other reference rate as may be determined by agreement between the Borrower and
BNR and satisfactory to the Association, plus a fee not to exceed one percent (1%). The one percent (1%)
fee goes to BNR and the remainder goes to government.
- 75 -



25.    The RIF would have the following benefits for the commercial bank: (i) it reduces its risk by
covering a part of the loan; (ii) gives it access to additional resources; and (iii) ensures repayment of part of
its loan principal. The benefits for the enterpreneurs include: (i) facilitation of access to bank financing;
and (ii) subsidization of their investment cost in the amount of the RIF portion of the loan and the saved
interest payments over time. The advantage of this mechanism is that the commercial bank has to collect
the payment on the RIF portion of the loan in the first place before it can be used to pay down its loan
principal. This does not only eliminate any moral hazard but also provides an incentive for the commercial
bank to screen its clients and ensure repayment of the RIF portion. Similarly, the enterpreneurs cannot
enjoy the reduction in their loan principal unless they repay the RIF portion. Due to the fact that the
subsidy is applied to their principal and not available to them directly, it does not interfere with their
incentive to manage efficiently and generate profit to repay the loans.
26.    A Special Account would be opened at BNR to receive resources to finance the RIF activities. The
account would be managed by BNR, which would make payments to the accounts of the financing
commercial banks to reimburse the latter for the amounts equivalent to the RIF portions of the loans given
to eligible investment projects. Once a payment is made by a client, BNR would authorize the lending
commercial bank to apply to corresponding amount against its portion of the loan principal. BNR would
sign a participation agreement, satisfactory to IDA, with each participating bank and which would lay out
the procedures for the operation of the Facility. In addition to the eligibility criteria that are specified in the
PIM, sub-projects must satisfy application procedures and approval criteria of the lending commercial
banks to receiving RIF funding.
27.    The Rural Technology Facility (RTF)  would be the main vehicle to establish and support
participatory agricultural services delivery systems. It would provide matching grants to: (a) build the
institutional, commercial, and technical capacities of farmer groups; and (b) strengthen the capacities of
agricultural research and extension systems in order to generate and extend improved technologies to
farmers and enhance the delivery of services. Given the very weak capacities in the research systems, the
first phase would include the: (i) rebuilding of ISAR's research and analytical capacities; (ii) training of
scientists, and (iii) building the capacities of lead research and extension services to involve fanners and
private operators in the generation and dissemination of cropping, animal husbandry, and post-harvest and
dairy technologies, in addition to: (iv) institutional support and grants to farmer groups to procure and
participate in research and extension services; (v) matching grants to private operators to invest in services
delivery activities; and (vi) R&D for selected pilot off-farm productive activities.
28.   ISAR is currently preparing a strategic plan to be adopted before project implementation. The
Plan would provide the basis for support through the RTF. Up to 20 percent or $1.6 mill of total RTF
resources of $8.25 M would be earmarked to rebuild minimum capacities at ISAR. Given the government'
s decision to privatize and liberalize the tea and coffee sectors, the support to farmer groups would include
funding for the establishment of CETSE by qualified farmer groups, which would: (i) fill the void left by
the withdrawal of OCIR-THE and OCIR-CAFE and provide commercial and technical support to farmers
in the tea and coffee sectors; (ii) extend that concept to other, non-traditional export crop sectors; and (iii)
accelerate the commercialization of priority crops, such as rice and maize. Up to 30 percent of the
Facilities resources or $2.4 M would be used for that purpose. The remaining $4.0 M would provide
competitive matching-grants to finance eligible sub-projects. Once its capacities have been strengthened,
ISAR would have to compete for funding from the Facility by preparing and submitting sub-projects.
Elgible RTF beneficiaries would include public and private sector R&D institutions, private sector
operators, and farmer groups. These groups can submit sub-projects individually or jointly. Sub-projects
that involve fanner participation would be given preference. Simplified application procedures and
approval criteria will be presented in a Beneficiary Group Manual (RTF-BGM), which would be translated
in Kinyarwanda and made available before project effectiveness.
- 76 -



Table 1: Project Activities to be funded through the LIF, RIF, AND RTF
Compneit I    Cmponent 3    Component 4    Component S            Component 6
Facilities    Rehabilitation of  Promotion of   Support to      Smallscale      Promotion of
Farmed      Commercial and   Agricultural         Rural          Off-farm
Marshlandand        Export          Services     Infrastructure     Productive
Hillside Areas    Agriculture   Delivery Systems  Development    Activities in
Rural Areas
Local           Soil and water   Construction and                Transport        Construction and
Infrastructure   resources      maintenance of                    infrastructure    maintenance of
Facility (LIF)    conservation  marketing/export                 development and post-harvest
infrastructure    cost-reducing                  maintenance      infrastructure
infrastructure                  activities
Rural           Operation of    Operation of     Investment in    Transport       Selected pilot
Investment      farmer-owned    farmer-owned    services delivery  infrastructure    off-farm
Facility (RIF)   Commercial     CETSEs           activities by   construction and  productive
Enterprises and                  private operators maintenance   activities
Technical                                        activities
Support
Entities(CETSEs)                                 Acquisition of
Investment in                    post-harvest and
Investment in    processing,                     dairy
processing,     conservation, and                infrastructure
conservation, and trading of crop,
trading of crop,  livestock, and                 Acquisition by
livestock, and    forestry products              farmers of AMT
forestry products                                to be tested under
pilot activities
Investment by
private operators
in the
construction
and/or
maintenance of
AMT and
transport
infrastructure
- 77 -



Rural           Establishement of Establishement of Rebuilding of                  R&D for selected
Technology      farmer-owned    farmer-owned    ISAR's research                    off-farm
Facility (RTF)   CETSEs          CETSEs           and analytical                   production
capacities,                      activities
including training
Participatory
research by
private and lead
public R&D
institutions
Procurement of
research and
extension services
through farmer
organizations
Agricultural
services delivery
activities by
private operators
- 78 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
RWANDA: RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Local         Foreign         Total
Project Cost-By Component                     US $million    US $million    US $milfion
1. Rehabilitation of Farmed Marshland and Hillside Areas          7.98           5.08           13.06
2. Integrated Management of Critical Ecosystems                   2.54            1.63           4.17
3. Promotion of Commercial and Export Agriculture                  5.84           3.74           9.58
4. Support to Agricultural Services Delivery Systems              5.32            3.40           8.72
5. Small-scale Rural Infrastructure Development                   5.45            3.46           8.91
6. Promotion of Off-farm Productive Activities in Rural Areas     0.18            0.12           0.30
7. Program Monitoring, Support and Coordination                   2.03            1.31           3.34
Total Baseline Cost                                              29.34           18.74          48.08
Physical Contingencies                                           0.82           0.43            1.25
Price Contingencies                                              3.48           2.37            5.85
Total Project Costs                  33.64          21.54          55.18
Total Financing Required                   33.64          21.54           55.18
Local     Foreign       Total
Pro;ject Cast By Category                       US          US          us
_____________________________________________$___                $million   $milJion    $million
(]) Grants (LIF and RTF)                                          10.09        7.32       17.41
(2) Subloans (RIF)                                                 4.20        3.86        8.07
(3) Civil works                                                    9.04        5.64       14.68
(4) Goods                                                          0.35        0.36        0.71
(5) Consultants' services, Studies, Surveys, Training and Audits   3.82        2.66        6.48
(6) Operating costs                                                1.17        0.00        1.17
(7) Refunding of Project Preparation Advance                       0.27        0.29        0.56
(8) Beneficiary                                                    1.10        0.00        1.10
(9) Global Environmental Facility (GEF)                            3.59        1.41        5.00
Total Project Costs   33.64       21.54       55.18
Total Financing Required    33.64       21.54       55.18
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0.57 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 49.61 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 96.75%
of total project cost net of taxes.
- 79 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
RWANDA: RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present value of Flows                      Flisal Impact
Economic    Fina =al Analyis1
Benefits:               Frw 49,394        Frw 56,874
US$127            US$146
Costs:                  Frw 24,600        Frw 24,600
US$63             US$63
Net Benefits:           Frw 24,794        Frw 32,274
US$64             US$83
IRR:                           100                47
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
I .   The results of the financial and economic analysis are based on the main component of the project,
Rehabilitation of Farmed Marshlands and Hillsides Areas, which consumes about one third of the planned
resources. The analysis focuses on this component, because it is the only one that is implemented with
direct implication by the Project Support and Coordination Unit. Other components are planned to be
designed and implemented on a demand-driven basis. Their exact nature is, therefore, not identifiable
enough beforehand, in order to allow for a proper analysis. For the present purpose, it is worth recalling
that typically farms in Rwanda consist of marshlands and hillsides with an average size of 0.94 ha. Of the
164,947 ha of surveyed marshlands, 93,754 ha are farmed. The project aims to modernize 50 percent of
the farmed marshland, or about 40,000 ha over a period of 14 years. During the first phase (2001-2005),
6,000 ha will be developed along with 15,000 ha of related hillsides. Soil fertility and erosion control on
the latter will be enhanced by the application of so-called progressive terracing techniques, while
waterxvorks of different degrees of sophistication will be established or rehabilitated in the marshlands.
Based on the agricultural engineering and agronomic analysis that accompanied the current study, 6 farm
models are considered:
(i)  Traditional marshland (code-named TT) with simple drainage waterworks. Initial cost:
155,600 Frw (US$400 the 389 Frw = US 1) per ha and 6,613 Frw (US$17) annual recurrent
costs.
(ii) Improved waterworks (type A) with drainage and individual (pedal) pumps. Initial cost:
505,700 Frw (US$1 300) per ha and 8,363 Frw (US$21.5) recurrent annual costs.
- 80 -



(iii) M[odern type waterworks (M) comprising a dyke with gravitation irrigation. Initial cost:
778,000 Frw (US$2,000) per ha and 9,725 Frw (US$25) recurrent annual costs.
(iv) One-season rice farm on marshlands without reservoir and with costs similar to type A's (2)
above.
(v) Two-season rice farm on marshland with a dyke allowing for irrigation by gravitation. The
costs are similar to type M's (3) above.
(vi) Hillside crop farming with progressive terracing and a cattle unit (3 Ankole cows).
Investment costs: 243,140 Frw (US$625 ) per ha.
2.    It should be mentioned that farm models 1-3 above focus on vegetable production, and that the
one-season and two-season rice models also grow vegetables part of the cropping year. These include
beans, green beans, green pepper, cabbage, celery, eggplant, amaranth and tomatoes. Maize and sweet
potatoes are also important marshland crops.
3.     For hillside farming with progressive terracing (model 6), selected crops are sorghum, beans,
soybeans, maize, groundnuts, sweet potatoes, Irish potatoes, cassava, banana and coffee. Leguminous
plants such as sesbania and leucaena are included to enhance soil fertility and erosion control. The
livestock unit vvill produce meat, milk and manure.
4.     As indicated in previous reports, Rwanda's agriculture is characterized by low productivity and
scarcity of resources, notably a low utilisation of such inputs as chemical fertilizers, improved seeds,
mechanization and animal traction. This will be reflected in the without-project situation. Technological
improvements being proposed with the project are rather of the simple, low-cost type. They may involve
just changing the cropping pattern by moving less financially valuable crops, such as sorghum, from the
marshlands to the hillsides and planting more valuable vegetable and cereal crops in the marshlands where
their yields normally double compare with hillside farming. The mere shift from the dwarf (bush) bean to
the climbing (pole) bean can increase bean production by over 60 percent on the hillsides and 85 percent in
the marshlands. Waterworks regulate water supply in the marshlands, making it available to crops in
optimal quantities; A and M type waterworks allow for irrigation and an additional cropping season
between June and September. This increases cropping intensity and farm income. Fertilizer, urea and lime
are proposed when required to improve soil fertility.
Economic Analysis
5.     Economic calculations take into account not only farm-level investments and recurrent costs, but
also project-level costs relating to rural road construction and maintenance, monitoring and evaluation, and
agricultural support services. The results of the analysis show economic indicators which are highly
positive like thtose in the financial analysis. Net Present Values range from 1,011,000 Frw for the hillside
farm with a cattle unit to 2,795,000 Frw for the marshland vegetable farm with just a simple drain.
Corresponding IRRs vary from 34 to 184, while benefit costs ratios for the 6 farns average 2.5.
6.    Not all the economic benefits accruing to farmers and the society at large could be fully appraised
in the present analysis. The major ones likely to be brought about by project implementation are people's
participation in decentralised rural development through the formation and/or strengthening of rural
associations, increased farrn incomes and enhanced food security, the adoption of environment-sustaining
farming techniques and the provision of needed rural infrastructures.
- 81 -



Financial Analysis
7.     With such overall modest investments and operating costs leading to substantial increases in yields,
it should not be surprising that financial and economic indicators are on the high side. Returns per family
day of labor have usually doubled or tripled in the models concerned compared with the reference situation.
They range from 1,140 Frw in the Traditional (TT) marshland to 2,790 Frw on the hillside with a cattle
unit at the eighth (cruising) year of the project. This is far above the 300 Frw going wage for unskilled
agricultural labor. The figures in the tables below confirm the financial attractiveness of the 6 farm
models, as the IRR varies from 30 percent in the case of hillside farming to 116 in the Traditional (TT)
marshland. Net Present Values (NPV) for their part range from 1,359,400 Frw in hillside crop farming to
9,052,600 Frw in the marshland with waterworks Type A (drainage and pedal pumps). Benefit cost ratios
average 1.9.
Main Assumptions:
8.    If the area of marshlands and related hillsides to be developed or rehabilitated during the first phase
of the project is now known to be 6,000 ha and 15,000 ha, respectively, their exact location is still to be
specified. It is, therefore, not possible to come up at this time with an actual costing of this first phase,
because no blanket recommendations can be made as to the type of waterworks needed for each marshland.
Rather, the agricultural engineering report provides a range of waterworks costs, the minimum of which is
US$400, and the maximum US$2,500 on the basis of previous studies and ongoing marshland development
projects in Rwanda. Still, to get an idea of the likely maximum cost and associated benefits of this first
phase, it is assumed that all the 6,000 ha of marshland will be equipped with type M waterworks with
initial costs of 778,000 Frw (US$2,000) per ha and that the 15 ha of related hillsides will be rehabilitated
with progressive terracing and cattle units costing 243,140 Frw (US$625) per ha as stated earlier. Weights
assigned to farm model types in the calculations are based on the relative importance of their investment
costs. The ensuing cost benefit summary is provided in Table 4 below.
9.     Commodity and input prices as well as other data used to prepare crop and farm budgets were
collected essentially at farm level during the June-July 2000 World Bank/FAO mission to Rwanda. They
have been checked and updated during a follow-up mission in October-November. Staff of various
ministries, notably the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Resources and Forestry and the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Planning, national consultants, private sector operators and farmers met, have provided
valuable assistance and advice in this endeavour. Some 50 crop and activity models as well as 6 farm
models have been elaborated.
10.    For financial analysis, the following assumptions were made: 12 percent discount rate, 20 years
time frame, price index set at I for the period, and the official exchange rate at 389 Frw for US$1 (June
2000). There being no long-term capital market in Rwanda, the 12 percent discount rate has been selected
on the basis of experience and practice in similar countries. The financial results given above are those
obtaining after financing at 12 percent.
11.    To compute economic prices, including wages for unskilled labor, a conversion factor of 0.87 has
generally been used. For imported inputs, such as fertilizers and rural infrastructure, a conversion factor of
0.96 has been applied to reflect their higher foreign exchange content. It should be mentioned that officially
taxes and duties on agricultural products and inputs have been abolished since May 2000.
- 82 -



12.    The share of rural infrastructure costs attributable to the first phase of the agricultural component
of the project has been computed on the basis of the project budget allocation and agriculture sector
contribution to GNP. Cost estimation for monitoring and evaluation as well as agricultural support
services takes into account the importance of the area (marshlands + hillsides) to be developed during the
first phase of the project in relation to total agricultural land.
13.    The implicit but nonetheless bold assumptions behind crop and farm models are that farmers will
duly apply the technologies proposed and achieve the expected yields; that there are few or no post-harvest
losses and that the market system is efficient enough to offer the producer at least the prices used in the
analysis. These conditions are far from being fulfilled, but they figure prominently among the project's
objectives which include boosting consumers' purchasing power through off-farm income generating
activities and agricultural export promotion. Bearing this in mind and considering that the first two years
of the project will be devoted to preparatory activities such as project staff recruitment and training,
strengthening of rural associations, establishment of a financing mechanism to ensure timely input supply,
construction/rehabilitation of waterworks in the marshlands, it has been assumed that most productions in
the with-project situation will start only during the third year for marshland farming and that such
productions should be linearly spread over 5 years before they reach optimal levels (i.e., at the 8th year of
the project). For hillside farming, with-project production would usually start during the second year, safe
for livestock products as meat and milk sales begin only in the third year.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
14.    The switching values/sensitivity analysis show that financial revenues at farm level should fall an
average of 40 percent or total costs (investment plus recurrent) increase by 87 percent to reduce the NPV
to zero. Likewise, switching values for the economic analysis are high and further underscore the
attractiveness of the investments.
15.   It should be noted that for rice, a strategic crop from the government's view point, both economic
and financial results appear encouraging (with IRRs averaging 42 percent and 35 percent, respectively,
albeit, they are well below those observed in the first three marshland models growing vegetables
essentially. In the case of one-season rice model, financial switching values are -26 percent for farrn
income and 35 percent for farm costs; corresponding values for the two-season model are -23 percent and
30 percent. These levels of switching values may appear rather close to the cut-off point regarding project
decision, particularly where low-input, small-scale farming is concerned. Indeed, sudden pest infestation,
an uncontrolled plant disease, a sharp fall in output prices due to increased foreign competition or
misguided food aid, a hike in fertilizer prices, can well reduce income or increase costs substantially.
Changing paddy farm-gate price of 100 Frw/kg used in the above analysis to 80 Frw/kg yielded switching
values of -21 percent for farm income and 26 percent for farm costs with a 31 percent IRR in the financial
analysis of the one-season rice farm; corresponding figures for the two-season rice farm were also -13
percent, 14 percent, and 23 percent for the IRR. The fact that switching values remained on the safe side
despite a 20 percent decrease in the farm-gate price of paddy could in part be attributable to vegetable
production in the rice farm models. This seems more evident in the case of the one-season rice farm, which
grows vegetables mostly two seasons out of three and for which indicators exhibit relatively higher values.
- 83 -



Table 1. Economic Evaluation of Six Farm Models (1 ha Standard Size)
Farn Costs                                      V
(Appraisal  Witbout |With            Farm
Value,}    Project :il: Proqect    h~comte;; ; FarmCosts  IRRStt IN:.P.V. 1  ]Benefit
Farm Model  Frw '000   Fv 'Q00   F                  (%)         (0)     (%)  Frw '000  Cost Ratio
Waterworks
Type TT         1,194        106        592         -70         234       184    2,795       3.3
Simple
Drainage
Waterworks
Type A:         3,133        101        1,498       -71         247      201    7,742        3.5
Drainage +
Pedal Pumps
Waterworks
Type M:         2,817        108        1,526       -73         273       145    7,697       3.7
Dyke +
Irrigation by
gravitation
I Season Rice
Farm:           3,093        108        501         -36         58        45      1,565       1.6
No reservoir
From I to 2
Season Rice     3,204        275        726         -33         49        39     1,581        1.5
Farm+
reservoir
Hillside Crop                                                                                        l
Farming +       2,158        202        608         -32         47        34     1,011        I
Progressive
Terracing +
Cattle Unit  l                                                                    _ _         _
- 84 -



Table 2. Financial Evaluation of Six Farm Models (1 ha Standard Size)
Farm Costs  O-Farm lnome          Switc    valis
(Appraisal  Without    With       Farm 
Farm Model   Value)    Project    Project   Income  Farm Costs IRR   NP,V. I Benefit
Frw '000   Frw '000   Frw '000    f%)        (%)    (%)  Frw '00  Cost Ratio
Waterworks     2,345       295        954       -59        142      116    3,357      2.4
Type TT
Simple
Drainage
Waterworks     6,483       282       2,075      -58        140      105    9,102      2.4
Type A:
Drainage +
Pedal Pumps
Waterworks     6,013       295       2,110      -61        155      88    9,000       2.5
Type M:
Dyke +
Irrigation by
gravitation
I SeasonRice    5,522      295        847       -26         35      37    1,943       1.4
Farm 
No reservoir
From 1 to 2
Season Rice    6,633       545       1,139      -23         30      32    1,974        1.3
Farm +
reservoir
tillside Crop    4,343     364        796       -24         31      30    1,359        1.3
Progressive
Terracing +
Cattle Unit
Long-Term Competitiveness of Priority Crops
16.   In an attempt to diversify its agricultural production base in order to achieve broad-based economic
growth and reduce poverty, the Government of Rwanda (GOR) has embarked on an exercise to assess the
competitive position of its agricultural commodities. The aim objective of the exercise is to evaluate
agricultural potential, identify the constraints to achieving this potential and propose measures designed to
alleviate them. In doing so, a few commodities, including dry beans, maize, sorghum and rice, are selected.
The rationale underlying this selection is articulated around their: (a) high nutritional value to make up for
the population's deficiency in protein and carbohydrates; (b) importance in the cropping pattern of the
country and adaptability to the country's agro-climatic conditions; (c) potential to respond to organic and
chemical inputs designed to shift the supply function, expand production and enhance income; and (d) job
creation potential to induce a trickle-down effect on the national economy.
- 85 -



17.    Using time series data of production parameters, the study reveals that the performance of the
above-mentioned commodities over the period 1980-99 has been disappointing.  For nearly all the
commodities, domestic supply appears to have declined over the period of interest. The dwindling
production results from both a reduction in cultivated area and a decline in on-farm productivity, raising
the issue of the root causes of the worsening of the production parameters. While the reduction in area may
be rooted in declining on-farm profitability, the poor performance of productivity may be attributed to
declining soil fertility resulting from population pressure causing a shortening of the fallow periods
compounded by the lack of chemical and organic fertilizer use. The declining trend over the period
1980-99 disguises, however, wide disparities across periods. While the period 1980-89 does not reveal any
noticeable pattern, that covering 1990-99 is characterized by a sharp decline in production parameters.
18.    One of the consequences of the agricultural performance appears to be an excess demand for the
above-mentioned commodities. According to the preliminary results of the supply and demand projections,
demand will continue to outpace supply in the long run if current trends persist, calling for vigorous efforts
from the Government to reverse the situation. Particularly important in reversing past trends is the need to
put in place an environment conducive to private sector investments for greater supply response. The GOR
has taken bold steps to improve the incentive framework by exempting agricultural inputs and exported
output from duties and taxes and withdrawing itself from key productive activities. Notwithstanding
Government actions, it needs to deploy additional efforts to deepen the reforms in order to expand food
production and raise income level in rural areas, which account for the bulk of the poor in Rwanda.
19.    Raising rural income is contingent on the ability of farm families to over costs and yield adequate
returns. Such is not the case in Rwanda, according to the preliminary results of the profitability analysis.
These results suggest that if family labor is valued at the market wage rate paid to hired labor, all farming
systems for beans, maize and sorghum generate negative profitability because of low output prices. These
low prices are confirmed by the low protection coefficients, which measure farmers' share of the border
equivalent price. The low level of the coefficients suggests an inefficient marketing system, which results
from either market failure or high transaction costs. It may well be that farmers lack market information to
help them strengthen their bargaining power or are forced to sell off their commodities because of lack of
market opportunities. A thorough exam of the profitability analysis shows that, at present, farmers using
traditional farming technique to produce food crops appear to generate higher profits when family labor is
not accounted for in the cost structure than those relying on improved techniques. With the uncertainty
associated to rainfed farming and market conditions, producers would prefer to play safe by sticking to the
low-risk technologies. One lesson that can be drawn from the results pertaining to the analysis of the
incentive framework is that paddy farmers, because the domestic rice market is closely linked to the
international market and receive a fair share of the import parity price, yield positive profitability despite
facing the cost of hiring labor.
20.    Using the DRC coefficient to assess the competitiveness of agricultural commodities, the results of
the study suggest that Rwanda enjoys a strong comparative advantage in maize, rice, sorghum and beans
when they are produced for consumption in markets close to the production zones (See table 4bl). For
maize, sorghum and beans, Rwanda's comparative advantage extend well beyond the production zones and
reaches Kigali, which is the most important urban consumption center of the country. For all these
commodities, the results show that Rwanda's comparative advantage is stronger for the farming systems
with the relatively higher on-farm  productivity.  Yet, consumption of chemical fertilizers to boost
productivity is not as wide spread as it should be in Rwanda, owing to several factors. First, inputs are not
always readily available because of inefficiencies in the input market. Private input traders cannot take
advantage of market opportunities, for they lack financial resources and face difficulties to secure a loan in
- 86 -



the formal banking sector in order to import inputs. This constraint may be eased in the near future by the
World Bank-financed project which has put in place a line of credit to facilitate and foster input imports.
Even though this problem may be addressed, input use will be constrained by low effective farmer demand.
Farmers lack the collateral required to purchase inputs on credit. Addressing these constraints is the
challenge facing Rwandan policy makers and the development community at large.
21.   In contrast to the results of maize, dry beans and sorghum, those of rice show that this commodity
loses its competitive edge when it is marketed from the production zones to Kigali. Several factors
converge to hinder the competitiveness of rice in this important urban market. First, the cost of processing
paddy into rice appears to be exorbitant in Rwanda, accounting for over one-quarter of the wholesale price
of local rice in the Kigali market. Though the details of the processing costs are not available, interviews
conducted with several managers revealed that overhead cost accounts for a large share of the processing
cost in the large mills. The high processing cost stems also from over-capacity of the big mills,
compounded by frequent breakdowns of the existing equipment for lack of spare parts. Yet, there appears
to exist proper know-how to address maintenance problems. High processing costs are induced also by the
sub-optimum processing conversion ratio, thereby causing output losses, which are taken into account to
price the final product. The impact of the processing cost on rice competitiveness is evidenced by the
results of the analysis with the small hullers. Domestic rice processed, using small hullers, appears
marginally competitive in Kigali because their processing costs are about half of those incurred by the
large-scale mills. Such a result calls for visiting the issue of whether it is not in the best interest of Rwanda
to encourage the establishment of small hullers instead of relying almost exclusively on the large-scale mills
to process paddy into rice. Such an issue deserves careful attention because experience in Asia and other
African countries has shown high payoffs from introducing those hullers, as they brought about greater
competition in the processing subsector and helped to curtail processing costs. Another advantage of the
small hullers is that they display greater flexibility in adapting to the changing market conditions. They
also provide more bargaining power to farmers by helping them to sell rice instead of paddy and keeping
the marketing margin.
22.    The competitiveness of domestic rice is hindered to a great extent by the low quality of the
processed rice. Rice produced in Rwanda has a high broken content caused by a host of factors. Seeds
used by farmers appear to originate from different sources, thereby creating a heterogeneity problem, which
makes it difficult to properly adjust the processing equipment. The broken content of rice is also influenced
by the dry content of paddy, owing mainly to the lack of synchronization in rice cultivation and harvesting.
Some farmners plant and harvest their paddy too soon and others undertake these activities too late, causing
the former to dry their harvested paddy too much and the latter to dry their output insufficiently. Paddy
overly dried has the tendency to increase the broken content of processed rice. Insufficiently dried paddy is
likely to keep its husk and will be eventually mixed with the already high content of broken rice to lower
further the quality of rice or will be reprocessed, contributing to increasing processing cost. As a result of
its low quality, domestic rice can hardly compete with rice imported from the regional market and Asia,
where rice is a way of life and deeply rooted in the culture.
23.    The competitiveness of Rwandan rice is also hampered by the low level of on-farm productivity,
which is disappointing by any irrigation standard. In fact, Rwanda's average paddy yields are lower than
those observed in most Sahelian West African countries where rainfall is lower and erratic. Although
yields vary markedly across irrigation perimeters in Rwanda, they are generally constrained by poor water
management and availability problems resulting from the deteriorating irrigation infrastructure. Certain
plots are overly watered because of drainage problems, leading to toxicity of the plant. Others receive very
little or no water, causing weeds and pests to take over the plots and destroy the growing plant. In any
case, significant losses are incurred by farm families.
- 87 -



Table 3. Domestic Resource Cost Coefficients (Base Case Scenario)
Commodity   Location         Farming System/Processing Technique         Market
_________                       _________         I   ~~~~~ ~~~Farm  inl
Maize      Bugarama    Traditional manual                             0.4]     0.69
Maize      Gisenyi     Improved manual                                0.34     0.58
Maize      Gisenyi      Traditional manual                            0.40     0.64
Maize      Mutara       Improved manual                               0.52      0.97
Rice       Butare       Low-cost irrigation-improved manual/small huller  0.57  0.92
Rice       Butare       Low-cost irrigation-improved manual/big mill  0.57      1.14
Rice       Gitarama     Low-cost irrigation-improved manual/big mill  0.61      0.92
Rice       Bugarama    High-cost irrigation-improved manual/small huller  0.64       1.11
Rice       Rwamagana  High-cost irrigation-improved manual/big mill   0.73      1.23
Rice       Kabuye       Low-cost irrigation-improved manual/big mill  0.93      1.25
Rice       Mutara       High-cost irrigation-improved manual/big mill  0.87     1.63
Sorghum    Byumba       Improved manual                               0.32     0.53
Sorghum    Byumba       Traditional manual                            0.40     0.62
Sorghum    Kibungo      Improved manual                            1  0.34     0.56
Sorghum    Kibungo      Traditional manual                            0.48     0.73
Sorghum    Kigali      Improved manual                                0.46     0.64
Sorghum    Kigali       Traditional manual                            0.62     0.82
Dry Beans  Byumba       Improved manual                               0.30     0.41
Dry Beans  Byumba       Traditional manual                            0.35      0.46
Dry Beans  Kibungo      Improved manual                               0.25      0.34
Dry Beans  Kibungo      Traditional manual                            0.70      0.88
Dry Beans  Kigali      Improved manual                                0.41      0.50
Dry Beans  Kigali       Traditional manual                            0.51     0.61
- 88 -



24.    Despite the poor performance of the agricultural sector during the past decade, prospects for
improved competitiveness appear bright (see Tables 2 and 3). International commodity prices are predicted
to increase markedly in the long run. Demand for agricultural commodities is increasingly getting stronger,
thanks to the recovery in global economic growth, which, together with increasing population and stagnant
commodity supply in world markets, will put an upward pressure on international prices. As such, the
competitiveness of Rwandan agricultural commodities will improve in domestic markets, as shown by the
sensitivity analysis. Improvement in the competitiveness of Rwandan commodities will also originate from
the flexible exchange rate regime adopted by the Government. As Rwanda adapts to the changing
economic environment, its currency is likely to depreciate vis-a-vis the dollar in the future because of the
strong performance of the US economy. The dollar is predicted to stay strong in the years to come until the
EURO, the common currency of the member countries of the European Union, establishes itself as a
credible currency in international markets. The uncertainty hanging over the European countries in
coordinating their fiscal policies and reducing their budget deficits raises serious doubt on the outlook of
the EURO, helping to strengthen further the dominant role of the dollar in international markets.
25.    Despite the positive developments predicted for the international markets on which small individual
countries can exercise no influence or at best very little influence, Rwanda needs to deploy tremendous
efforts to improve its competitive position in both domestic and regional markets. Key among the actions
that the Government of Rwanda can take to overcome the binding constraints to strengthening the
competitiveness of its agricultural commodities are the following measures:
(a)  Improve on-farm productivity through:
(i)    High yielding seed varieties: Government efforts should focus on putting in place the
conditions for making high yielding seed varieties to farmers. These seeds should be
adapted to the local physical environment and resistant to diseases and pests. In this vein,
the Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda (ISAR) should focus its attention on
producing the foundation seeds and transfer them to seed farmers for multiplication.
Following this multiplication, MINAGRI should certify the seeds to ensure high quality
before they are sold to paddy farmers.
(ii)   Improving the provision of extension services: At present, there does not appear to be a
strategy for the provision of adequate extension services to farmers. Before designing a
national extension strategy, it will be a good idea to investigate and evaluate the
constraints to providing good quality extension services. A study needs to define the task
and responsibility of the central technical departments and those close to farmers.
(iii)   Fostering the link research-extension-farmer: There appears to be no close relationship
between researchers, extension agents and farmers. Yet, extension agents should be the
link between researchers and farmers to provide a feedback to the former. Researchers
also need to have direct contact with farmers to guide research activities.
(iv)   Improving the provision of chemical and organic fertilizers to food crop farmers through
farmers' organization: While rice has adequate access to inputs, other food crops very
seldom use fertilizers because farmers are not systematically organized to facilitate
fertilizer purchase on credit. It is time for food crop farmers to initiate and establish
cooperatives a la CODERVAM, design a revolving fund that will be used to order inputs
on a large-scale, sell the inputs to farmers on credit and arrange for repayment after
- 89 -



harvest.
(v)    Rehabilitating the rice irrigation  infrastructure:   As the relatively low  on-farm
productivity is partly attributed to the dilapidated irrigation perimeters, it is imperative
that the infrastructure be rehabilitated in the short to medium term. In this vein, farmers
should learn to manage the infrastructure and contribute a great share of the investment
and operating costs of the perimeters. However, transferring the management of these
perimeters to farmers should be gradual because they need training and well-established
rules governing water fees, operating costs and future investment costs.
(b)  Improve the marketing efficiency: Agricultural marketing is hampered by insufficient market
information that would give signals to market participants. Though price data is gathered by the
Programme d'Appui a la Securite Alimentaire (PASAR) to inform policy makers on the food
security situation of the country, no activity is undertaken to inform farmers and traders on
market conditions. Efforts should be deployed by the Government to feed informnation to farmers
and traders in order to make markets more transparent and improve resource allocation.
(c)  Foster the link between domestic and intemational markets: Government liberalization efforts of
the economy is the right step in the right direction. Nonetheless, Government needs to deploy
additional efforts to bring domestic prices in line with international prices. Policies need to target
lower import duties to foster competition and raise income in the long-run. With more liberal
policies, the higher prices forecast for world markets will be passed onto domestic farmers to
enhance their income in order to increase investments in the agricultural sector.
(d)  Encourage the use of coarse grains in the livestock sector: One of the binding constraints to
increasing coarse grain prices at the farm level is that cereal use is restricted to human
consumption only. Yet, there exists untapped demand in the livestock sector, which is in bad
need of feeds.  As livestock is one of the most important subsectors in rural Rwanda,
Government should encourage contract farming between farmers and herders so as to increase
demand for coarse grains and raise income of crop farmers.
(e)  Improve the efficiency of rice processing: Despite milling over-capacity, there is a need to bring
about more competition in rice processing to curtail costs and improve competitiveness. Small
hullers should be encouraged in Rwanda to increase the bargaining power of paddy farmers in
the rice market. Establishment of these hullers should not, however, precede the restructuring
and privatization of the large-scale mills to enable them to reduce overhead costs and withdraw
from managing the irrigation perimeters.
- 90 -



Table 4. DRC Coefficients Resulting from an Increase in International Prices
Commodity   Location         Farning System/Processing Teehnique          Market
Maize      Bugarana    Traditional manual                              0.37     0.60
Maize      Gisenyi     Improved manual                                 0.30     0.50
Maize      Gisenyi      Traditional manual                             0.36     0.55
Maize      Mutara       Improved manual                                0.46     0.80
Rice       Butare       Low-cost irrigation-improved manual/small huller  0.48  0.74
Rice       Butare       Low-cost irrigation-improved manual/big mill   0.48     0.90
Rice       Gitarama     Low-cost irrigation-improved manualVbig mill   0.50     0.75
Rice       Bugarama    High-cost irrigation-improved manualsmall huller  0.54   0.88
Rice       Rwamagana  High-cost irrigation-improved manual/big mill    0.62     0.97
Rice       Kabuye       Low-cost irrigation-improved manual/big mill   0.77     1.01
Rice       Mutara       High-cost irrigation-improved manual/big mill  0.73     1.28
Sorghum    Byumba       Improved manual                                0.28     0.45
Sorghum    Byumba       Traditional manual                             0.36     0.53
Sorghum    Kibungo      Improved manual                                0.30     0.47
Sorghum    Kibungo      Traditional manual                             0.43     0.62
Sorghum    Kigali      Improved manual                                 0.40     0.54
Sorghum    Kigali       Traditional manual                             0.55     0.71
Dry Beans  Byumba       Improved manual                                0.24     0.32
Dry Beans  Byumba       Traditional manual                             0.28     0.36
Dry Beans  Kibungo      Improved manual                                0.20     0.26
Dry Beans  Kibungo      Traditional manual                             0.57     0.70
|Dry Beans  Kigali      Improved manual                                 0.32     0.39
Dry Beans  IKigali      Traditional manual                             0.40     0.47
- 91 -



Table 5. DRC Coefficients Resulting from a 20 percent Increase in International Output Price and
Depreciation of the Domestic Currency
Commodity   Location         Farmng Sy     /ocessing Techniqe       :Market
Maize      Bugarama    Traditional manual                              0.25     0.37
Maize      Gisenyi     Improved manual                                 0.20     0.29
Maize      Gisenyi      Traditional manual                             0.24     0.33
Maize      Mutara       Improved manual                                0.30     0.45
Rice       Butare       Low-cost irrigation-improved manual/small huller  0.31  0.44
Rice       Butare       Low-cost irrigation-improved manual/big mill   0.31     0.53
Rice       Gitarama     Low-cost irrigation-improved manual/big mill   0.32     0.45
Rice       Bugarama    High-cost irrigation-improved manual/small huller  0.35  0.51
Rice       Rwamagana  High-cost irrigation-improved manual/big mill    0.40     0.57
Rice       Kabuye       Low-cost irrigation-improved manual/big mill   0.49     0.61
Rice       Mutara       High-cost irrigation-improved manual/big mill  0.48     0.73
Sorghum    Byumba       Improved manual                                0.20     0.29
Sorghum    Byumba       Traditional manual                             0.24     0.32
Sorghum    Kibungo      Improved manual                                0.19     0.28
Sorghum    Kibungo      Traditional manual                             0.29     0.38
Sorghum    Kigali      Improved manual                                 0.25     0.32
Sorghum    Kigali       Traditional manual                             0.36     0.43
Dry Beans  Byumba       Improved manual                                0.16     0.20
Dry Beans  Byumba       Traditional manual                             0.19     0.23
Dry Beans  Kibungo      Improved manual                                0.13     0.17
Dry Beans  Kibungo      Traditional manual                             0.37     0.44
Dry Beans  Kigali      Improved manual                                 0.21     0.25
Dry Beans  Kigali       Traditional manual                             0.27     0.30
- 92 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
RWANDA: RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Years Ending
| Year I   Year 2       Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5      Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
InvestmentCosts            12.3       14.9      13.9       14.1        0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          12.3       14.9      13.9       14.1        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              12.3       14.9      13.9       14.1        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  10.7       13.1       12.0       12.2        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.2        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              1.2        1.2        1.3        1.3        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.2        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     12.3       14.9       13.9      14.1        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 93 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
RWANDA: RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Procurement
General
I.    The last CPAR carried out for Rwanda is no more pertinent since the procurement system changed
thereafter. Presently a reform of Rwanda's procurement system is underway with Bank assistance through
an IDF Grant. By June 2001, it should lead to the establishment of new procurement law and regulations
including standard bidding documents based on the Bank's standard bidding documents. Experience from
past shows that regulations and procedures in Rwanda do not conflict significantly with Bank guidelines.
Furthermore, Rwanda's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any
conflicting provisions in national regulations.
Use of Bank Guidelines
2.     Procurement of goods and works financed under the credit shall be in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published in January 1995 and revised
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Procurement of consultant services
financed under the credit shall be in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,published in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999.
Advertising
3.   Procurement Notices. Goods and Works: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published
in the UN Development Business and in a National paper of wide circulation as specified in the guidelines.
The GPN will be updated annually in case ICB procurement is not completed in the first year of the
project. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be required for all goods and works contracts to be
procured through ICB and NCB. SPNs will be published in local newspapers and distributed to the
embassies of member countries represented locally. Consultant Services: In order to obtain Expressions
of Interest, a GNP will be published in the Development Business and in a National paper of wide
circulation for all for consultant services contracts which are expected to exceed US$100,000 equivalent.
This GNP will be updated annually provided that consultant services contracts exceeding the above
mentioned amount are foreseen in the yearly procurement plan.
4.     As a promotional measure and to create awareness in the private sector (civil works contractors,
suppliers of goods, prefecture and commune-based contractors and masons), the Project Support and
Coordination Unit (PSCU) will prepare and publish annually, in local newspapers of wide circulation, a
Promotional Procurement Notice (PPN) for business opportunities generated by Local Administrations
(LAs) and Beneficiary Groups (BGs) under the project using a format to be included in the PIM. The PPN
will contain information on estimated demand and contract opportunities by these beneficiaries for
construction or rehabilitation of rural infrastructure.
- 94 -



Procurement Capacity
5.    A procurement capacity assessment of the agencies involved in the project execution was carried
out during the appraisal mission. This procurement assessment revealed that the capacities of the PSCU,
LAs, BGs, and NTB need to be strengthened. Consequently, it was agreed that the following measures will
be undertaken: (i) hiring of a qualified procurement specialist for the PSCU as soon as possible; (ii)
preparation and implementation of a procurement training program tailored to the needs of each institution
involved in the implementation of the project (LAs, BGs, NTB, PSCU); (iii) finalization and adoption of
the NTB status; (iv) finalization and adoption of the new procurement regulations; (v) adoption of a Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) satisfactory to IDA; and (vi) presentation of a satisfactory annual
procurement plan for the first year of project implementation.
Procurement Plan
6.    During Negotiations the Borrower has submitted a draft procurement plan for the first year. This
plan will be updated, finalized and submitted to IDA for approval before Credit effectiveness. It was
agreed that by October 1 of each year, a procurement plan for the next year will be submitted by PSCU for
IDA prior review. The procurement will be updated at least once a year. The progress report forwarded to
IDA will report on procurement activities in an appropriate degree of detail
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
7.   Procurement will be the responsibility of the following institutions: (i) The Project Support and
Coordinating Unit (PSCU) in collaboration with: (i) Local Administrations (LAs) and Beneficiary Groups
(BGs); and (ii) The National Tender Board (NTB).
8.   PSCU will be responsible for all procurement activities except for contracts below US$25,000
equivalent, which may be procured through the beneficiaries, and for activities financed through the Rural
Investment Facility (RIF). With regard to procurement, the main task of PSCU will be the implementation
of the rehabilitation and development of farmed marshland and hillside areas. PSCU will prepare and
update the procurement plan, prepare bidding documents, participate in the bid evaluations, and monitor
and manage the execution of contracts. PSCU will work closely with the various departments of
MINAGRI and its associated institutions as well as other representatives of the Ministries involved in the
implementation of the project.
9.   The NTB will be responsible for: (i) the publication of Specific Procurement Notices (SPNs); (ii)
reviews of bidding documents, bids opening, evaluation, recommendation, and awarding of contracts above
the thresholds required by the national procurement regulations.
Procurement Method
10.  Civil works contracts to be financed under the credit are estimated at US$15 million total. They
include rehabilitation and development of farmed marshland and hillside areas, and small-scale drainage
and irrigation infrastructure. Civil works estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent per contract and up to
an aggregate amount of US$2 million equivalent will be procured through ICB procedures. All civil works
contracts, between US$25,000 and US$200,000 equivalent per contract and up to an aggregate amount of
US$12 million would be procured through NCB, in accordance with procedures described in the PIM and
acceptable to IDA. Contracts estimated to cost between US$25,000 and US$100,000 equivalent may be
awarded under simplified bidding procedures as described in the PIM, including advertisement at prefecture
- 95 -



level.
11. Community-based procurement will be used for activities to be financed through the Local
Infrastructure Facility (LIF).  It will cover small-scale irrigation, construction and rehabilitation of
marketing facilities and all other small-scale rural infrastructure under the project that may be selected by
LAs and BGs. Contracts will be procured on the basis of demands from the communities, following
simplified procurement procedures described in the PIM. The manual to be used by the project will be
based on the Bank publication: Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for
Community-based Investments" and on lessons learnt through the Community Reintegration and
Development Project (Cr. 3138-RW). Subprojects identified and appraised by LAs and BGs that might
lead to contracts exceeding US$25,000 equivalent will be procured by PSCU in accordance with the
above-mentioned procedures (see para. 10 above).
12.  Commercial practices will be used for procurement of the activities to be financed through the Rural
Investment Facility (RIF). The RIF, with total resources amounting to US$8.07 million, will provide
financial resources to entrepreneurs willing to invest in priority areas defined in the Letter of Rural
Development Policy.  Since RIF provides matching grant resources, as part of loans provided by
commercial banks, these subprojects will be appraised by local banks based on their lending practices, and
the guidelines and criteria specified in the PIM. Commercial practices will consist of obtaining price
quotations from at least three qualified contractors.
13. Goods. Contracts for furniture, equipment, vehicles and computers for PSCU, estimated to cost
US$100,000 equivalent or more, will be awarded through ICB. Goods estimated to cost less, between
US$10,000 and US$100,000 equivalent per contract and up to an aggregated amount of US$500,000
equivalent, will be awarded based on NCB procedures as described in the PIM. Goods procured by LAs
and BGs and small items such as office equipment and supplies as well as small equipment and furniture,
that are locally available and costing less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract and up to an aggregated
amount of US$ 100,000 equivalent, will be procured on the basis of comparison of at least three quotations
obtained from reputable suppliers. Vehicles, motorcycles and office equipment may be procured through
UN agencies (IAPSO) for up to an aggregated amount of US$100,000 equivalent.
- 96 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
ExaRiture Category                              Procurement Method if                         To    Cost
ICB            NCB          Other 2J    N.B.F.
(1) Grants (LIF and RTF)                 0.00           0.00           18.52           0.00            18.52
(0.00)         (0.00)         (17.41)         (0.00)         (17.41)
(2) Subloans (RIF)                       0.00           0.00            8.07           0.00            8.07
(0.00)         (0.00)         (8.07)          (0.00)          (8.07)
(3) Civil works                          1.91           10.58           2.42           0.00           14.91
(1.80)         (9.91)         (2.27)          (0.00)         (13.98)
(4) Goods                                0.00           0.40            0.06           0.00            0.46
(0.00)         (0.39)         (0.06)          (0.00)          (0.45)
(5) Consultants' services,               0.00           0.00            6.48           0.00            6.48
Studies, Surveys, Training,         (0.00)         (0.00)         (6.48)          (0.00)          (6.48)
and Audits                                                                                     _
(6) Operating costs                      0.00           0.00            1.17           0.00            1.17
(0.00)         (0.00)          (1.06)         (0.00)          (1.06)
(7) Project F'reparation Advance         0.00           0.00            0.57           0.00            0.57
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.55)          (0.00)          (0.55)
Total                                1.91           10.98          37.29           0.00           50.18
(1.80)        (10.30)         (35.90)         (0.00)         (48.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
the Project Management Office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to: (i) managing
the project; and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
N.B.F. = Non-Elank-financed
- 97 -



14.  Consultant Services. Consulting services financed under the credit would be for: (i) studies,
architectural and technical design, civil works supervision, preparation of bidding documents; (ii) data
collection, audits - financial and technical, impact analysis; and (iii) training - skills gap analysis, skills
development; and training of staff from various agencies and institutions (including LAs) involved in
project implementation activities. The selection procedures will consist of: (a) Quality- and Cost-Based
selection (QCBS) for architectural, technical design and civil works supervision; (b) Least Cost Selection
(LCS) for technical and financial audits; (c) Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) for technical studies and
training; (c) Selection under a Fixed-Budget (SFB) for training of LAs and BGs; and (e) selection of
individual consultants for: (i) technical studies under subprojects; and (ii) assistance to LAs and BGs on
procurement activities concerning small civil works (Section V of Guidelines).
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms            2.30       0.00       0.40      0.25       0.75       0.00       0.00      3.70
(2.30)    (0.00)     (0.40)    (0.25)     (0.75)     (0.00)     (0.00)    (3.70I
B. Individuals      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       2.78      0.00       2.78
(0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)     (2.78)    (0.00)     (2.78)l
Total   2.30       0.00      0.40       0.25       0.75      2.78       0.00       6.48
(2.30)    (0.00)     (0.40)    (0.25)     (0.75)     (2.78)     (0.00)    (6.48)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 98 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
15. Civil Works. The first five contracts for civil works for rehabilitation of farmed marshland and
hillside areas from five different communes regardless of cost, the first five contracts to be financed
through LIF from five different communes regardless of cost, and contracts for amounts exceeding the
equivalent of US$100,000 will be subject to IDA's prior-review procedures. This threshold will be
reviewed if deemed necessary at the mid-term review based on the procurement record of the implementing
agency. All other contracts will be subject to post-review by IDA during supervision missions and by
auditors.
16. Goods. The first three contracts, regardless of cost, and contracts for amounts exceeding the
equivalent of US$50,000 will be subject to prior-review by IDA. This threshold will be reviewed if deemed
necessary at the mid-termn review based on the procurement record of the implementing agency. All other
contracts will be subject to post-review by IDA during supervision missions and by auditors.
17. Consultant Services. All terms of reference (TORs), excluding those with standard TORs provided
in the PIM, and all single source selection, regardless of contract cost, will be subject to prior review.
Contracts estimated to cost more than US$25,000 equivalent for individuals and more than US$50,000
equivalent for firms will be subject to prior-review procedures. All other contracts will be subject to post
review by IDA during supervision missions and by auditors during technical audits.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
ContatVauCoract                                         SqbJmftto
Threshold              Procurment               PriorReliw
ExPe v    a, tgoy         (US$ ftusands)                 .,                  (US$ mil)ons)
1. Works                 More than US$200,000             ICB               Equal or more than
(a) Design & Supervision      equivalent                                  US$100,000 or more and
(b) Construction                                                           first five contracts from
Between US$25,000 and            NCB              five different communes
US$200,000 equivalent
Between US$25,000 and     NCB with Simplified
US$100,000 equivalent   procedures as described in
PIM
2. Goods                 More than US$100,000             ICB                Equal or more than
(a) Vehicles                   equivalent                                  US$50,000 and the first
(b) Equipment                                                                 three contracts
(c) Furniture           Between US$10,000 and         NCB/IAPSO
US$100,000 equivalent
Less than US$20,000          NS or LS
equivalent
- 99 -



3. Services
(a) Firms                     NA                QCBS/LCS/CQ/SFB        All TORs and All Single
Single Source      source contract regardless
of their cost.
Equal and more than
US$50,000 equivalent for
firms.
(b) Individuals               NA                        IC               Equal and more than
US$25,000 for individuals
4. Grants:
LIF and RTF            No threshold but no    Simplified procedures as    First five contracts from
contract exceeding      described in the PIM  five different communes.
US$200,000 is expected                            All contracts of works
above US$100,000
equivalent and all contracts
of goods above US$50,000
equivalent
5. Subloans:
RIF                    No threshold but no     Commercial practices            None
contract exceeding
US$200,000 is expected
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$18.34 M
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement, Supervision and Technical Audit
18.  One every six months a supervision mission will be carried out. During these missions a selective
post review of contracts awarded below the thresholds will apply to at least one in five contracts. The
project's activities would be subject to annual technical audits carried out separately from financial audits.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 100 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in U$mWilon           Financig Percentage
(1) Grants (LIF and RTF)                   15.67              100% of amounts disbursed
(2) Subloans (RIF)                         7.26               100% of amounts disbursed
(3) Civil works                           12.53                         95%
(4) Goods                                  0.41             100% of foreign and 95% of local
expenditures
(5) Consultants' services, Studies,        5.83                        100%
Surveys, Training, and Audits
(6) Operating costs                        0.95                         85%
(7) Refunding of Project Preparation       0.55
Advance
(8) Unallocated                            4.80
Total Project Costs                       48.00
Total                                     48.00
- 101 -



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Basic Principles
1.    The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) at the PSCU Office would be entrusted with the Program's
overall financial management and reporting and would serve as the principal contact for Bank financial
management and disbursement purposes. Under the supervision of the CFO, the local administrations
(LAs) would be in charge, where applicable and capacity exists, of all financial management and reporting
at the local level with respect to individual and matching grants sub-projects dealing with public
infrastructure development and maintenance activities. Payments would flow from the special accounts
and would be made according to predetermined disbursement schedules to be specified in the respective
sub-project proposals.  Transfer payments would be effected expeditiously when due, and fund
management would follow transparent procedures that would be standardized across LAs and detailed in
the sub-project manual. After an initial advance, the level of which would be determined in the initial
sub-project proposals, each subsequent transfer would be made on the basis of justified expenditures and
according to the disbursement schedules. For infrastructure subprojects, final tranches would be paid upon
approval of the quality of works by an independent technical auditor. At no time would outstanding
advances in regional subsidiary accounts exceed 90-days estimated expenditures.
2.    Use of SOEs would be contingent upon a satisfactory assessment of the PSCU's financial
management capacity, including the maintenance of proper accounts, the preparation of project progress
reports, the ability to process and maintain SOE documentation, and satisfactory annual auditing
arrangements. Provided these conditions are met, SOEs would be used for all expenses related to
sub-projects. Furthermore, all expenses, related to contracts below prior-review thresholds would be
claimed on the basis of SOEs. The supporting documentation underlying all SOEs would be made
available for review by Bank supervision missions at any time. Supporting documentation would be
retained by the PSCU, with the exception of sub-project documentation, which would be retained by the
respective LAs. The primary responsibility of maintaining the records rests on the CFO. The satisfactory
assessment of the financial management system would be one condition of effectiveness.
Special account:
3.    The Government would open two Special Accounts in US dollars with the Banque Nationale du
Rwanda (BNR), to which project funds will be deposited. Special Account B (SA-B) would be for the
financing of the sub-projects under the Rural Investment Facility (RIF) and Special Account A (SA-A) for
all other project activities. SA-B will be managed by BNR and SA-A by PSCU. The objective of these
special accounts is that most, if not all, credit funds be disbursed through this procedure, with PSCU
relying as little as possible on direct payments from Washington. Only amounts exceeding 25 percent of
the amount advanced to the special accounts could be claimed through the direct payment procedure. The
authorized allocation for each of the special accounts would be US$1,000,000. Once cumulated
disbursement for a given account reaches SDR 2,500,000, the advance for that account would be raised to
US$2,000,000. For subsequent disbursements, PSCU would submit appropriate justification on the use of
amounts disbursed earlier (bank reconciliation statements and other reasonable documentation) to IDA.
The Special Account would be audited annually by external auditors acceptable to IDA. At the time
replenishment of the SA-A and SA-B is requested, PSCU will indicate on their reconciliation statement the
location and amounts outstanding in each subsidiary account.
- 102 -



Decentralized Advance Accounts (DAAs)
4.    Due to the decentralized approach of the project, most of the activities would be conducted in
remote areas of the country where there are no adequate banking services linked to the capital city. Even if
there were branches of the Banque Populaire in most of the communes, no immediate transfer of funds
could be effected from the capital to the prefectures and subsequently to the executing agencies at the local
level. Consequently, the Borrower would be authorized by IDA to withdraw funds from Special Account A
and use these to make advance payments to participating local administrations, where necessary and where
required capacities exist, for a period not exceeding 90 days into Decentralized Advance Accounts (DAAs)
that would be opened in commercial bank branches that are in, or close to, the geographical location of
these administrations. The 90-day DAAs would be administered by the local administrations and subject to
the same IDA policies and procedures as the Special Accounts (SA-A and SA-B), with regard to
expenditure eligibility, disbursement percentages, non-financing of taxes, etc. The financial control
mechanisms to be established as a condition of effectiveness and the eligibility criteria of beneficiary
communities would allow the PSCU and the local administrations to constantly monitor the financial flows.
Training planned throughout project implementation, and in particular during the start-up phase, would
strengthen the administrative capacity at the central and local levels to manage the financial aspects of the
project.
5.    Upon approval of the respective sub-project implementation plans, the local administrations would,
in applicable cases, prepare a one-year operating budget and a financial plan with cash flow requirements
(disbursement schedule) for each such sub-project. On the basis of the budget and financial plan, local
administrations would request advances covering no more than 90 days for individual sub-projects from the
PSCU. For later replenishments, the expenses incurred under the previous tranche would have to be
justified (e.g., by submitting receipts) to the satisfaction of the PSCU, as confirmed by its Chief Financial
Officer. Payments for eligible expenditures under sub-projects would be made by local administrations
according to predetermined payment schedules which would be specified in the sub-project proposals. All
payments would be made to the account of the supplier or partner agency in accordance with predetermined
payment terms that would be specified in the relevant contracts.
6.    The DAAs would be subject to monthly reviews by PSCU. The latter would prepare quarterly
financial reports to be submitted to MINAGRI, MINECOFIN, and IDA. The Bank's disbursement letter
to be issued by LOA and the PIM being prepared by MINAGRI would specify the above mentioned
arrangements in more detail.
Counterpart Fund Account (CFA)
7.    The PSCU would open with BNR a counterpart fund account. Government's counterpart funds
needed for twelve (12) months to cover the share of investmnent not financed by IDA will be deposited by
the government in a Project Counterpart Fund Account (PCFA) at BNR at the beginning of each year of
the project for Government's share of eligible expenditures. The funds will be managed by the PSCU.
- 103 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
RWANDA: RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Pr   t_ $ b.::ul.                                    lan iedX: ;L;X:  Act4alt 
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        I1                             13
First Bank mission (identification)               02/04/2000                    02/13/2000
Appraisal mission departure                       09/30/2000                     10/22/2000
Negotiations                                      12/14/2000                    02/16/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     06/30/2001
Prepared by:
The Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Resources and Forestry (MINAGRI)
Preparation assistance:
FAO/CP
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Ousmane Badiane                    Senior Agricultural Economist (Task Team Leader), AFTR2
Azra Lodi                          Program Assistant (costab and quality enhancement), AFTR2
Remileku Rakey Cole                Consultant (export promotion), AFTR2
Jiro Tominaga                      Young Professional (implementation mechanisms - PIP), AFTR2
Prosper Biabo                      Consultant (financial management aspects - PIP), AFTR2
Francois Kanimba                   Senior Economist (institutional and policy reform issues), AFMRW
Marie-Claudine Fundi               Team Assistant (AFMRW)
Prosper Nindorera                  Operations Officer (procurement issues), AFMBI
David Steeds                       Consultant (marshland development)
Harry Palmier                      Institutional Development Specialist (agricultural services), AFTF2
Hassane Cisse                      Senior Counsel (LEGOP)
K.G. Awunyo                        Consultant (LEGOP)
David Freese                       Disbursement Officer (LOAG1)
William B. Marke                   Lead Financial Management Specialist (LOAG2)
Juvenal Nzambimana                 Disbursement Analyst (LOAG2)
QUALITY ASSURANCE:
Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                 Sector Manager (AFTR2)
Irene Xenakis                      Lead Specialist (AFTQK): operatn. quality/proj. design/safeguard issues
Francesco Sarno                    Lead Procurement Specialist (AFTQK): procurement issues
Abdul Haji                         Financial Management Specialist (AFTQK): financial management
Luc La Pointe                      Consultant (AFTQK): procurement issues
Elizabeth White                    Consultant (OCSOS): logframe and project design
Naima Hasci                         Sr. Social Scientist (AFTES): social issues
Eugene R. Terry                    Adviser (RDV): small-scale irrigation, technical engineering
Mohammed S.Y. Abdel-Dayem          Principal Drainage Specialist (RDV): drainage, technical/engineering
- 104 -



Alessandro Palmieri                Sr. Dams Specialist (RDV): irrigation and safeguard policies
Christian J. Pieri                 Sr. Ecologist (RDV): nutrient management, soil fertility conservation
Henri P. Van Der Wulp             (RDV): pest management, safeguard policies
Madhur Gautam                      Evaluation Officer (OEDST): extension services, participatory service
- 105 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
RWANDA: RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Implementation Manual (PIM)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Abdul Haji, Sr. Financial Management Specialist (AFTQK) - Financial Management
Prosper Nindorera, Operations Officer (AFMBI) - Procurement
Remi Kini, Environmental Economist (AFTES) - Environment
Naima Hasci, Sr. Social Scientist (AFTES) - Social
Willaim B. Marke, Lead Financial Management Specialist (LOAG2) - Disbursement
C. Other
(1)  A. Dachraoui: RAPPORT TECH-NIQUE (Technical report on marshland and hillside rehabilitation)
(2)  A. W. Barry: PROSPECTS FOR AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY COMPETITIVENESS:
CONSTRAINTS AND OPPORTUNITIES
(3)  B. Badjeck: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(4)  A. Youdeowei and Athanase Kayijamahe: FRAMEWORK FOR THE INTEGRATED
PRODUCTION AND PEST MANAGEMENT FARMERS FIELD SCHOOLS(IPPM/FFS)
(5)  FAO/CP: GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY - PROPOSAL FOR PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT FUNDS (PDF) BLOCK B GRANT
(6)  FAO/CP: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
(7)  L. Cremona: SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
(8)  B. Cooney: GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY PROPOSAL FOR PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT FUNDS (PDF) BLOCK B GRANT
(9)  J. Gendahayo: SEMINAIRE-ATELIER SUR LA CONCEPTION DU PROJET D'APPUI AU
SECTEUR RURAL AU RWANDA
(10) Lynn Engstrand (Team Leader): BACK TO OFFICE REPORT RWANDA CTSE PROJECT
PREPARATION MISSION. August 14 to September 2, 2000
(11) Evaluation de la capacit6 de passation des marches - Recapitulation des conclusions et mesures
proposees
(12) Caracteristiques Generales
*Including electronic files
- 106-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
RWANDA: RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Feb-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                         Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Revd
P045182       2000 RW-Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Proje         0.00     2000                            000       1970       0.00      0.00
P045091       2000 Rw-Human Resource Dev                            000      35.00                           0.00      34.05      1 79      0.00
P058038       2000 AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MARKET                    0 00      5 00                           0.00       4.07      -0.91     0.00
P057294       1999 DEVELOPMT.                                       0 00     75 00                           0.00      31.29     20.91      0.00
P061931       1999 EC.REC.CREDIT                                    0.00      5 00                           0.00       3.93      1.61      0.00
P002241       1993 CRDP                                             0.00     26.00                           7.01       4.22     11.86      4.85
P002237       1991 Rw-Energy Sector                                 0.00     19.60                           0.00       7.44      0.08      0.09
P002238       1990 HEALTH & POPULATION                              0.00     40.00                           0.00      20 35     -26.47    12.69
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Total:       000      225.60                           7.01     125.05      8.87      17.63
RWANDA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                  Disbursed
IFC                                       IFC
FY Approval              Company                                 Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic       Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic
Total Portfolio:                0.00        0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval             Company                                     Loan       Equity        Quasi        Partic
2000                    Rwandacell                               4000.00    2000.00           0.00         0.00
1998                    AEFHighland                               526.10         0.00         0.00         0.00
Total Pending Commitment:               4526.10    2000.00            0.00         0.00
- 107 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
RWANDA: RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Saharan       Low-
Rwanda       Africa   Income        Development diamond
1999
Ponuilalion mid-vear (millions)                             R 3       f42       2 417                  Life expectancy
GNP noAr cAnita (Atlas method. USSi                       2750        510        41 n
r NP (Atlas method. USS bill60nsi                           2 1       321         aR8
Averaoa annual arowth. 1993-99
Poo,Ilatinn (%/                                            1          2 R        1 ai
Labor force l%                                              1.9        2.6        2.3      GNP                                 Gross
per                               primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1993-991                                      capita                          ..rnlmarn
Poverty (% of Dooulation below national Dovertv line)       51
Urban nontlation (% of total Dooulation)                     f          34        31
I ife. eoenotanrv at hirth (vearsl                          41         5s         fi
Infant mortalitv toer 1.000 live births)                   123          92        77
Child malnitrition f% of children under 5S                              32        4:3                Access to safe water
Access to imDroved water source I% of DoDutation)             .         43        64
Illitlracv (% of DDoulation aae 15+)                        34          39        39
Gross Drimarv enrollment (% of school-aae DODu/ationt         .         78        96                    Rwanda
Malp                                                                 Rs        11n2                   Low-income group
Femate                                                               71         8C
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989        1998       1999     9
Economic ratlos
GDP (USS blillonsI                                1.0       2 4        2.0        2.0
Grnos domestir investmrintGnp                    12.0      13 4       1S 7       14 3
ESxDorts of ooods and services/GDP               21.0       6.1        5.4        5.6                       Trade
Grnss domrstic savinns/GrP                       10 3       2 3       -1 7       -1 3
G ross national savinns)GDP                     92 7        7 7        7 4        7 1
,urrent accouint halanrce/GOP                     4 C     -10 R       -R 2       -7 1      Domestic
Interest navments/Gl)P                            0 1       0 3    n        R     n fi                                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   15.1      25.8       60.0       63.2      Savings
Totalr debt sprvice/exrorts                       2 3      IC 1       32.9       41 5
Present value of debt/GDP                                     -       34.1       38.5
Present valuie of dbtl/esnnrts                                       570 3      f40 A
Indebtedness
1979.89  1989.99      1998        1999   1999-03
(averaoe annual arowlhJ
GOnP                                    2 8      -21        95         59         sR                     Rwanda
GNP ner aranita                           4      -3, 5      7 5        3 2        32      I              Low-income group
Sxoorts of aoods and services           3.5      -6.9       1.9       14.4        6.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989        1999       1999      Growth of investment and GDP(%
(% of GDP)                                                                                Into
Anririltitre                                     53 .i    43 3        47 4       45 7
lndfstrv                                         2 05      1R 7       21 2       2n 5     lo:
Mannifactiurinn                                14.0      11 2       13.0       11.7      to
Services                                         2f 59    3 .0        31.4       R3 38
Private consimntinn                              7R f     RC    o    0  90.4         7     -50              96 9      7    98   99
General nnvernment nnnsutmotion                  13 1      12 7       11.3       12 7                     G           'GDP
Imoorts of ooods and services                    22.8      17.3       22.9       21.1
1979-89  1999-99        1998       1999      Growth of exports and Imports I%)
laveraae annua/ arowthlt
Aoriculture                                       0.8      -4.0       10.8        5.9     s-
Indstrv                                           3 8       a s       11 4         9      25 
Manufacturinc                                   4.1       4.0       10.4        8.4
Services                                          7.3      -1 7        7 7        59 A                                     9
Private consumotion                               2.1       0.9        6.6       -0.4
General novernment nonstumotinn                   5 8      -3 5       IfC 9      1R 1
Gross domestic investment                         9 1      -0 1       2C 4      -12 7
Imoorts of onods and servircs                     5 4       7 1        R 0      -11 4                    Exports      *'Imports
Gross national nroduict                           2 7      -2 1       10 2        5 7
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-aroun averaae. If data are missino. the diamond will
he incomolete
- 108 -



Rwanda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                     6
(% change)                                                                          E0
Consumer prices                              15.7       1.1       6.8      -2.4
Implicit GDP deflator                         6,1      5.3        2.6      -2.4     40
Government finance                                                                  20
('Y of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                 ..    12.7       15.7      13.4    -20
Current budget balance                          ..     0.5        3.8      0.1                  GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..       ..       -2.9      -6.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           203       97        64        61     500
Coffee                                        ..      59         28        27
Other agriculture                             .       20         23        1 8    400
Manufactures                                  .        4         10        15    300
Total imports (cif)                             .      3 32      323       281     200
Food                                          ..      29         49       47                                9    9    99
Fuel and energy                               ..      48         35       47      100
Capital goods                                  .      86         61       44       o
93  94   95 96   9         8 9
ExDort Drice index (1995=100)                           83        109      106
Imoort Drice index (1995=1001                           83        99       102                 *Exports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       .      101        110      104
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                               1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 227      148       111       109       o_
Imports of goods and services                 307      417       462       412
Resource balance                              -80    -269        -351     -304      -3*
Net income                                     -3      -10         -7      -10
Net currenttransfers                          131       19       191       176      -r                  '
Current account balance                        48     -259       -167     -138
Financing items (net)                         -13      155       185       161
Changes in net reserves                       -35      105        -18      -23    -12
Memo:
Reserves includina oold (USS millions)        152       70       164       186
Conversion rate (DEC. localVUSS)             92.8     80.0      312.3    333.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          156      623      1,213     1,237
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0                      F 16
IDA                                          48      302       552       691              E 180
Total debt service                              5       29        40        49
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0
IDA                                           0        3        11        11
Composibon of net resource flows                                                       D:330                        B.191
Official grants                              83       96       199       212                                      B. 691
Official creditors                           33       53        43        27
Private creditors                            -1       -3        88        96
Foreign direct investment                    13       16         7         2
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0         0                 c:20
World Bank program
Commitments                                  10       52         0        80      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                11       32        55        69      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Prncipal repayments                           0        1         6         6      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    11       31        49        63
Interest payments                             0        2         5         5
Net transfers                                11       29        44        58
AFTM3
-109-



Additional
Annex 11
Environmental Assessment
RWANDA: RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT
I Environmental Impact
Potential Positive Impacts
I.     Overall, Rwanda's natural resource base is subject to continuing degradation due to the high population
density, high population growth rate (some 3 percent p.a.), and continuing uncontrolled resettlements following the
civil war. High erosion rates on hill sides affect agricultural productivity, whereas deforestation and possibly
changes in river hydrology may have caused changes in the local climate; rainfall has been deficient in each of the
last three years. RSP would contribute to an improved management of natural resources by: (i) improving
sustainability and productivity of hill side agriculture through the application of soil and water conservation
measures; and (ii) through increasing the productivity of wetlands already used for agricultural purposes. Besides
tackling the issue of land degradation in the hillsides, this would lead to improved food security and income
generation opportunities for the rural population. Increased productivity of agricultural land could lead to a
reduction in the encroachment in protected areas. In addition, the project would support capacity building at all
levels, including the local level. The project component Integrated Management of Critical Ecosystems (financed
by the GEF) would contribute to the protection of biodiversity in wetlands.
Potential Negative Impacts
2.     The project also has a number of potential negative environmental impacts. The main potential negative
impacts are: (i) loss of habitat through increased cultivation of wetlands; (ii) changes in national hydrology through
drainage and irrigation of wetlands; (iii) increase in diseases with a waterborne vector (in particular malaria and
bilharzia) through the construction of irrigation reservoirs; (iv) increase in the use of pesticides; and (v) increase in
erosion related to the construction and rehabilitation of roads. These impacts are described below. As the project
would be demand driven, and precise project activities would be determined during its implementation phase,
sub-project preparation and evaluation would include environmental screening where necessary.
(a)   Loss of Habitat through Increased Cultivation of Wetlands. In the first phase, the project would
support agricultural activities in some 4,000 ha of wetlands. Currently, around 90,000 out of the total
164,000 ha of wetlands in Rwanda are under cultivation. This is a relatively extensive type of
cultivation, involving traditional drainage, cultivation of maize, sorghum, soybeans and sweet potatoes
during the rainy season, and cultivation of sweet potatoes during the dry season. Nevertheless, these
wetlands have lost the majority of their original vegetation cover. As the project would be limited to
already cultivated wetlands, the environmental impact is thought to be moderate; nevertheless, it will
be necessary to monitor any risk of bio-diversity loss.
(b)   Changes in National Hydrology through Drainage of Wetlands. The proposed project activities
include drainage and irrigation. This will have a substantial impact on the hydrological properties of
the wetlands. These include a reduction in the water holding capacities of the wetlands: when
drainage activities are completed, there may be less possibility to absorb floods in the rainy season
and, subsequently, less water available to be released in the dry season.
- 110-



(c)   Increase in Waterborne Diseases through Construction of Irrigation Reservoirs. These diseases are
in particular malaria and bilharzia. Irrigation reservoirs provide a habitat for mosquito larvae and
water snails, the respective vectors of malaria and bilharzia. In particular, malaria is one of the most
dangerous diseases of the country. Even though there currently already exist ample breeding habitats
for the vectors of these diseases, there is a risk of an increase in malaria and bilharzia due to the
construction of irrigation reservoirs in the wetlands.
(d)   Increase in the Use of Pesticides. Pesticide use on most staple crops is not very high in Rwanda as
the majority of farmers cannot pay for pesticides. However, pesticide use can be substantial on
cash-crops, such as coffee, tea, vegetables and rice in the wetlands, and potatoes in the hillsides. As
the project would specifically be targeted at increased cultivation of cash crops, there is a risk that this
could contribute to an increased use of pesticides in the country, requiring adequate mitigation. The
negative environmental impact of an increased use in fertilizers would be negligible as, in the large
majority of the fields, the current use of fertilizers is too low to even replenish the soil nutrients taken
out by the crops. Increased use of fertilizers would thus have a positive environmental impact as it
would help to maintain the soil fertility of agricultural plots.
In order to mitigate the potential environmental impacts related to an increase in the use of pesticides,
the RSSP would implement an extensive integrated pest management plan (IPM), that would train
some 2,000 to 2,500 farmers in IPM, following the Farmner Field School approach. The IPM
sub-component, which is described further below, will adequately mitigate the risk of pesticide use for
the environment and beneficiary populations.
(e)   Increase in Erosion Related to the Construction/Rehabilitation of Roads. With the exception of the
national parks, there is virtually no untouched habitat left in Rwanda and the risk of an impact on
habitat through the construction of local infrastructure, such as roads, is low. However, there exists a
risk that the construction of roads could lead to erosion, in particular when road design insufficiently
takes into account the substantial erosion risk in a high rainfall country such as Rwanda.
(f)   Other environmental impacts. An activity that may be supported by the RSSP is the construction of
agro-processing units. These processing units (in particular for coffee) may cause pollution of
waterways through the disposal of wastewater. However, it is currently not known what types of
processing units would be supported. There is also a chance that the improvement of the market
structure for rice, vegetables and legumes (peas and beans) could lead to increased demand for these
products, and thus to encroachment on other wetlands. This also holds for the construction of roads,
which may facilitate the transport of agricultural products and thus may stimulate the growing of
these crops, possibly causing encroachment on currently non-cultivated wetlands. Because these
impacts can only be assessed when more detailed information is available on the precise activities of
the project, they have not been further investigated. However, it is recommended that these impacts be
included in the environmental review of the project after the first phase.
2. Mitigation Measures
3.     In order to mitigate the potential negative environmental impacts of the project, the RSP includes an
Environmental Mitigation Plan (EMP), composed of the following elements:
(a)   Exclusion of currently uncultivated wetlands from the project.  Undeveloped wetlands will be
excluded from the project. The priority list of wetlands to be developed under the first phase only
contain areas that have already been modified by agricultural activities; in addition, a biodiversity
- 111 -



assessment of wetlands will be conducted (as part of the GEF component) and an environmental
screening procedure will be adopted. The assessment would, amongst other outputs, result in a list of
wetlands which, because of their importance for biodiversity conservation or maintenance of national
hydrology, would be excluded from development by the RSP (a 'negative' list). A screening
procedure would also be applied to cultivated wetlands proposed for rehabilitation or modernization
by the RSSP in order to provide an additional environmental safeguard, as specified in para 3(d)
below.
(b)  Implementation of a Study on the Role of Wetlands in the National River Water Balances. Even
though the role of wetlands in maintaining Rwanda's hydrological network is recognized, there is
currently no quantitative information available on this subject. As some 90,000 ha of wetlands have
already been brought under agriculture, and as the RSP would support the intensification cf
agriculture in up to 20,000 ha of these (involving drainage and/or irrigation), there is a risk that this
process will lead to changes in dry season water availability or local climate. Therefore, the project
would fund, during the first phase, a study that would result in an analysis of the potential impact of
wetland modification on river hydrology in the project area. This study will provide an input into the..
scheduled formulation and implementation of the Master-plan for Wetland Managemert
(ADB-funded), of which the formulation phase is planned to start shortly. The TORs for the
Master-plan do not include the examination of possible changes in water flows at the national scal.
because of wetland development.
The proposed study would determine: (i) the potential impacts of different types of agricultural
development in wetlands on river hydrology; (ii) the possible cumulative impact of modifications in
wetland hydrology on river discharges in the project area; and (iii) possible ways to mitigate this
impact (such as the protection of certain (types of) wetlands that have a crucial function in the
regulation of water flows and/or the proposal of adapted wetland development models, e.g., using
buffer zones). In addition, the study would investigate the current hydrological monitoring capacity i n
Rwanda, and propose a detailed program to monitor the potential hydrological impacts of the RSSP.
in particular the impact on downstream water users, for consideration for possible funding under th,.
program's second phase.  The outcomes of the study, in combination with the results of the
hydrological monitoring program, if supported, would enable a more detailed assessment of the
hydrological impact of the RSSP in the program's subsequent phases.
The study would be conducted by a national consultant, with support from an international consultant:
(TORs are presented in Annex C of EA Report). The outcomes of the study would be discussed
among the main stakeholders (i.e., MINAGRI, MINIRENA, MINITERE) in a two-day seminar. The
study will use existing data on rainfall and river discharges and will test the hydrological impact of
wetland drainage in a number of test sites. It is proposed to split the 3 months of international
consultancy in two periods of 6 weeks in order to allow for data collection in the meantime (by the
national consultant).  It is essential that, due to Rwanda's complex hydrology, monitoring be
continued throughout the life of the project.
(c)   Testing of Biological Vector Controls for Malaria and Bilharzia. Three mitigation measures are
proposed: (i) field level environmental training program which would include a module on these
diseases (describing vectors, vector control, prevention, symptoms, medication, etc.); (ii) test on the
possibility to use biological vector control measures; and (iii) include the incidence of malaria and
bilharzia in the environmental monitoring program. In addition, resources would be made available
for health care activities (medications, mosquito nets, etc.) in case there would be an outbreak of
malaria or bilharzia in a project area. It is proposed that the vector control test be undertaken by a
- 112 -



national consultant (4 months), supported by an international consultant (1 month in project year 1)
and in cooperation with the PSCU and MINAGRI; TORs are included in Annex D of the EA Report.
It is recommended to have the national consultancy implemented by the Ministry of Health
(MINISANTE). In the test, the suitability of a number of biological control measures will be
examined (e.g., use of different fish species, removal of water plants). The results of the test would be
included in the field level training program.
(d)   Environmental Screening Procedures. The project would adopt stringent environmental screening
procedures, as part of the sub-project appraisal and approval procedures. In order to facilitate the
environmental appraisal of subprojects, the PSCU would employ a national environmental specialist,
supported as necessary with periodic interventions by an international consultant over the program's
first 3 years. As part of the subproject appraisal, the project environmental specialist would be
required to examine the potential environmental impact of the subproject. Although the environmental
specialist is expected to be familiar with EA, if needed he would receive additional training in the
subject matter. The environmental screening procedure is shown in Annex E of the EA Report. In the
environmental screening procedure, the PSCU environmental specialist would apply the wetlands
assessment methodology to be developed under the GEF-supported Critical Ecosystem Component.
The application of this methodology, together with the results from the hydrological study, would
provide the basis for the preparation of a list of sites which, due to their high value for biodiversity
and/or role in water resources conservation, would be excluded for development under the project.
RSP will not support subprojects located inside protected areas. This list would be discussed with the
relevant ministries, local administrations, and stakeholders, so that the methodology behind and
justification for exclusion becomes transparent and clearly understood. The wetland assessment
methodology and the results of the hydrological assessment should be completed by the end of project
year 1.
Proposed wetland sites, not previously excluded through the application of the wetland assessment
methodology described above, would be subject to regional assessments. As the rehabilitation
component design has adopted a catchment approach, regional assessments would be applied on a
catchment basis. The justification of the regional assessment would be to reduce the need for
subproject-specific EAs. Where a regional assessment demonstrates that project interventions are
unlikely to pose risks to the environment due to local characteristics (e.g., highly degraded
environments), no further environmental analysis will be required for individual sub-projects. The
RAs will be prepared by national consultants. The regional and sub-project specific environmental
assessments would be reviewed by the PSCU environmental specialist and would need to be approved
by the Ministry of Land, Human Resettlement, and Environment (MINITERE). In case of doubt
about the environmental impact of a project or the quality of the environmental assessment, the
environmental specialist could make field checks. In addition, the environmental specialist would be
required to visit the project sites after implementation to check if the mitigation measures have been
implemented. Currently, there is very little capacity in Rwanda to conduct environmental assessments
and RSP, in collaboration with MINITERE/GEF, would support adequate capacity building in this
field. A sample environmental screening list in the form of an impact questionnaire checklist and a list
of potential mitigation measures have been prepared and included in Annexes F and G, respectively, of
the EA report. The environmental assessments would be funded under the Monitoring and Evaluation
activities of PSCU.
(e)   Environmental Capacity Building. At the central leveL a project environmental specialist would be
recruited (and trained in environmental [impact] assessment [4 weeks], if needed) as well as wetland
ecohydrology (2 weeks). These training courses would be held at qualified international institutes in
- 113-



the region, possibly in Kenya or Uganda (project year 1). In view of the potential environmental
implications of the project and the limited environmental capacity currently available in Rwanda, the
PSCU environmental specialist would be supported by an international environmental consultant.
This consultant would assist in the fine-tuning of the environmental screening procedures and the
environmental monitoring program, the development and organization of the environmental training
courses, the delegation of environmental responsibilities to the prefecture level, etc. The international
consultant would work in Rwanda during the first three years of the project, on average spending 4
months/year in country (TORs are added in Annex H of the EA Report). Through on-the-job training
by the international consultant, the national environmental specialist is expected to take over full
environmental responsibility of the RSP for the remaining years of the project.
In addition, a training course in environmental assessment would be organized in Kigali (project year
1). It is scheduled to have some 25 to 30 participants from MINITERE, MINAGRI, MINIRENA, the
6 prefectures participating in the project (staff from the prefecture offices of MINAGRI and/or
MINITERE), the National University of Rwanda, the Rwanda Institute for Science and Technology,
and the Centre for Education (the latter three being research and education institutes working in the
environmental field, and candidates for conducting EAs). The training would be given by an
experienced international consultant, in collaboration with the PSCU environmental specialist and a
national consultant. An outline of the EA training is provided in Annex I and the TORs are presented
in Annex J of the EA Report. It is scheduled to have a two-week refreshment EA course by the end of
Phase One (project year 4).
At the prefecture level, a one week environmental training course would be provided to prefecture
level staff of MINAGRI and MINITERE, and representatives of local organizations, such as NGOs
and Commune Development Committees (CDCs). The training would address environmental
assessment, environmental management of wetlands and cultivated hillsides, and environmental
monitoring. These training courses would be organized in the 6 prefectures participating in the RSSP.
The training manual and the course program would be designed by an international consultant in
collaboration with the project environmental specialist, and the training courses itself would be
organized by the project environmental specialist in collaboration with MINITERE and MINAGRI
(project year 2). Two months of national consultancies would be made available to support the
project team and MINAGRI in the implementation of the courses. A refreshment course of 3 days
would be organized by the end of the Phase One (project year 4). It is envisaged that the same EA
specialist responsible for the EA training in Kigali would develop the manual and training program for
this course, TORs are provided in Annex K of the EA Report.
At the district level, a 3-day training sessions in environmental management would be organized for
every participating CDC. These training sessions would principally serve the purpose of awareness
raising on environmental issues. Topics would include erosion control, role of wetlands in the national
hydrological system, biodiversity, malaria and bilharzia control, etc. The manual and the course
program for these training sessions would be prepared by the PSCU environmental specialist in
collaboration with MINAGRI and MINITERE. The first courses would be organized by the project
environmental specialist; it is expected that prefecture level staff, by participating in the teaching of
the first training sessions in their respective prefecture, would gradually be able to take over the
organization and implementation of the training sessions. It is envisaged to have a 2-day refreshment
training session by the end of the project, organized by the prefecture level staff. These sessions
would also serve as a way to discuss the local environmental impact of project activities witth
prefecture staff.
- 114-



(f)   Environmental Review of the Project after Phase One. Finally, it is proposed to conduct a relatively
extensive environmental review after Phase One of the project. This would involve an international
EA specialist (8 weeks) backed up by a national consultant. In addition, an environmental specialist
should participate in supervision missions, in particular during mid-termn review. The environmental
review would propose, based on the experiences of the first phase, an updated environmental
mitigation plan for the subsequent phases two and three. In addition, this environmental review would
identify the subsequent capacity building needs, determine the replenishment requirements of thie
environmental assessment fund, and propose an expanded environmental capacity building program
for phases two and three. Particular attention would be given to the required training activities at the
field level.
3. Environmental Monitoring Program
4.    The implementation of the environmental monitoring program will be integrated into the overall RSP
monitoring program to be implemented by MED. Of particular relevance for the environmental monitoring is the
GEF component, Integrated Management of Critical Ecosystems, that would support an assessment of wetland
biodiversity in Rwanda. With the PDF-B funds currently at the disposal of the GEF preparation team, a
biodiversity assessment of a limited number of wetlands of global significance would be conducted, a more
comprehensive biodiversity assessment would be carried out during implementation of the GEF-funded component.
RSP would fund the monitoring of sub-project activities, whereas the GEF component would cover the monitoring
of activities related to protection and sustainable management of critical ecosystems.
5.    From the interviews conducted during the preparation of this EA, it is clear that the amount of data
currently available as well as the capacity for environmental monitoring in Rwanda is limited. There is no
information system regarding uplands, and the most detailed information available on wetlands is an Access
database constructed in the period 1989-1992 at MINAGRI, containing climatological, pedological, hydrological
and agricultural data for all wetlands in Rwanda MINAGRI's database covers a total of 3017 ha wetlands; major
wetlands have been sliced up into 2 to 4 km long stretches.. In addition, 1:50000 maps are available with the location
of the wetlands (not in electronic format). Agricultural use of the wetlands is updated up to about 1990-1992 and
cannot be considered accurate anymore. The database is managed by the Division's Genie Rurale of MINAGRI.
As a result, prior to the finalization of the monitoring program, a review of existing baseline information will be
required. Where data are missing, either baseline studies will have to be completed prior to field monitoring, or
suitable indicators selected as replacements supported by the necessary baseline information. Based upon the
identified potential environmental impacts discussed above, and taking into account the current capacity for
environmental monitoring, a number of illustrative indicators have been suggested to monitor the effectivness of the
EA's proposed mitigation measures. These will be reviewed and revised, where needed, during preparation of the
first annual work plan. Indicative costs of the Environmental Monitoring and Mitigation Plan are presented in
Tables 8 and 9 of the EA Report.
4. Monitoring and Evaluation of Pest Management Practices
6.    The dissemination of integrated pest management (IPM) practicies through Farmer Field School and other
appropriate methods would be a major activity under the Agricultural Services component. Progress in the
introduction and implementation of integrated pest management as well as proper handling and use of pesticides
should be monitored regularly to ensure that the risks to human health and environmental contamination are
completely eliminated or reduced to the barest minimum. When necessary, field staff should be able to manage
risks efficiently by providing remedial measures. In this project, monitoring means following up on the pattern of
implementation of sub-projects under the Agricultural Services component and others that are funded under the
Rural Technology Facility to ensure that staff continue to comply with established procedures and guidelines
- 115 -



defined in the Pest Management Plan (PMP) and the Pest Management Operational Manual (PMOM) which have
been prepared under the ongoing Agricultrual and Rural Market Development Poject (ARMDP). Pest management
activities under RSP would include the following:
(a) Monitoring of:
*  the progress in the introduction of IPM practices in agricultural production;
* the patterns of chemicals management;
*  the negative effects of chemicals pesticides to human health and the environment;
*  the nature, maintenance and use of protective gear by field staff.
(b) Training programs to build and strengthen capacities in the field implementation of integrated pest
management practices in agricultural production.
7.     A questionnaire for the monitoring and evaluation of subprojects that relate to management practices of
chemical pesticides and the rate of field adoption of IPM practices is included in the PMOM. This questionnaire is
to be used as a guide only and should be modified appropriately to make it relevant to the particular subproject
implementation environment. Regular monitoring should be conducted every 3 months. The outcome of monitoring
process and proposed adjustments to correct inadequacies identified during monitoring should be reflected in the
District and MED reports for sub-projects under the Agricultural Services Component and others that are funded
under the RTF.
8.     OP 4.09 stipulates that, "In Bank-financed agricultural operations, pest populations are normally controlled
through IPM approaches", and that, "The Bank may finance the purchase of pesticides when their use is justified
under an IPM approach"" This poses the crucial questions: How is an IPM approach defined? And whern is
pesticide use justified under an IPM approach? OP 4.09 defines IPM as a mix of farmer-driven, ecologically-ba sed
pest control practices that seeks to reduce reliance on synthetic chemical pesticides. It involves: (a) managing pecsts
(keeping them below economically damaging levels) rather than seeking to eradicate them; (b) relying, to the extent
possible, on non-chemical measures to keep pest populations low; and (c) selecting and applying pesticides, when
they have to be used, in a way that minimizes adverse effects on beneficial organisms, humans, and the
environment. The following checklist provides some guidance in determining whether or not pesticide use is in line
with IPM practices.
- 116-



Checklist: Determining whether chemical pest control is justified
Examples of positive criteria indicating that pesticide use is in line with IPM principles:
o  Users are aware of approaches to reduce reliance on chemical control and understand the ecological and
subsequent economic implications of pesticide use;
o  Non-chemical methods of agro-ecosystem management to enhance natural mortality of the pest concerned
are employed as a first line control option;
o Decisions to apply external inputs as supplementary control are made locally, are based on monitoring of
pest incidence and are site-specific (as opposed to centrally issued blanket instructions);
o  Use of pesticides is economically justifiable in terms of having a long-term positive effect on net farm
profits;
o  Use of non conventional pest control inputs (biological control, biopesticides, growth regulators,
pheromones, etc.) have been explored as alternatives to conventional pesticides.
Examples of negative criteria indicating that pesticide use is most probably not in line with IPM principles:
L  Pest control schemes based on preventative calendar spraying, or other use of pesticides without use of ETLs
and monitoring;
o Input packages or rural credit packages standard include pesticides (and therefore assume that they are
needed regardless of the actual field situation);
o Pest control schemes have been centrally designed and do not take into account local and seasonal
variations;
o  Pesticide use is likely to lead to long term path dependency, pest resurgence, secondary pest outbreaks or
pest resistance;
o Farmers have not been involved in decisions to apply pesticides;
o Free or subsidized distribution of pesticides;
o  Use of persistent and/or non-selective pesticides such as broad-spectrum pesticides or products comprising
various active ingredients that significantly affect non-target organisms and reduce the natural control
capacity of the agro-ecosystem;
o  Lack of cost-benefit analysis demonstrating positive impact on farmer net incomes;
o Advisory services linked to project implementation have an interest in pesticide use.
In the above cases, supporting documentation would need to be made available to explain why pesticide use is
necessary and what steps are being taken to transform towards IPM-based production.
- 117-



Examples of biases towards chemical control:
o  Pesticide use is directly or indirectly subsidised;
o  Advisory services have a financial interest in selling pesticides;
o  Extension schemes/programs/messages are oriented on chemical control;
o Extension staff receive commissions on pesticide sales;
o Extension schemes are impeded by staff and funding constrains, and the actual plant protection advice to
fanners comes from agro-chemical salesmen instead of extension staff;
o Government agricultural budget allocations favour input supply over human resources development;
o Agricultural credit schemes include compulsory procurement of pesticides;
o Plant protection research overemphasises on chemical control;
U  Farmers have little or no access to information about alternative approaches that reduce reliance on chemical
control.
- 118 -



Additional
Annex 12
Letter of Rural Development Policy
RWANDA: RURAL SECTOR SUPPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    Rwanda is still in the process of recovering from the unparalleled tragic human and economic
destruction in 1994. Since the Government of National Unity assumed office in July 1994, it has been able
to restore peace, put effective governance on a sustainable path, attain socio-economic recovery as well as
lay the basis for sustainable economic growth. This transition from emergency to sustainable development
has required exceptional efforts by the Government as it had to put in place policies and programs to
rebuild the society, and facilitate national reintegration and reconciliation. However, Rwanda continues to
need support to overcome the legacies of the genocide and the destruction of human capital and to focus on
the difficult agenda of long-term development and poverty reduction.
2.    An overwhelming portion of Rwanda's population lives in the rural areas and that population is
growing rapidly. This makes measures to raise agricultural output and employment the cornerstone of
poverty reduction efforts in Rwanda. The overall objective of Rwanda's rural development policies is to
revitalize the rural economy through measures that removes the constraints that exist on the supply and
demand side of the agricultural sector and thereby to overcome the subsistence orientation of the country's
agriculture. These measures will aim at raising the productivity of all the resources at the hand of rural
poor and achieving sustained broad-based growth in the sector. Ultimately, they will contribute to the
increase of rural incomes, the reinforcement of national stability, and eventually the reduction of poverty.
II. BACKGROUND
A.    Recent Economic Development
I.    Rwanda's economy experienced rapid growth of GDP and per capita incomes and economic
stability throughout the 1960s and 1970s and which continued until the massive terms of trade shocks in
the 1980s. The real GDP growth of 6.5 percent per annum in 1973-80 declined to an average of 2.9
percent in 1980-85, and further to -2.9 percent in 1989-91. Following the economic slow-down and
stagnation, GDP per capita, which had risen from US$70 in 1973 to a peak of US$354 in 1989, fell to
US$245 in 1993. The prolonged decline in domestic economic production and incomes resulted in
increased poverty and poorer social indicators, stagnant government revenues, a steep decline in exports,
and increased dependence on external assistance.
2.    The genocide of 1994 caused a further decline in the already low level real GDP by almost 50
percent, bringing GDP per capita to as low as US$117. During the subsequent period, the annual rate of
inflation rose to as high as 64 percent. With the restoration of peace to most areas of the country and new
policy measures to stimulate the private sector and large inflows of external assistance, the real GDP
growth rate rebounded by 37 percent in 1995. The economy continued to grow at 12 percent in 1996, 11
-119-



percent in 1997 and 10 percent in 1998. Inflation fell to 17 percent by end 1997 and further to an average
of 6.8 percent in 1998. In 1999, Consumer Price Index (CPI) declined by 2.5 percent, reflecting the
increases in food production and appropriate monetary policies. Although the general trend of economic
expansion continued in 1999, the economy grew at a much lower rate than before. The real GDP grew by
an estimated 5.9 percent in 1999 and is projected to expand at a rate of around 5 percent in 2000, while the
CPI would rise by 2-3 percent. The main sources of growth have been agriculture and construction all
throughout this period. The external trade situation has also improved albeit slightly in 1999. The current
account deficit, excluding official transfers, amounted to 15.1 percent of GDP compared to 16.9 percent in
1998. The gross international reserves increased from 6 months of imports end 1998 to 7 months end
1999.
3.     Moreover, the Govemment has been making great efforts to consolidate the fiscal situation and has
made significant achievements over the past years. The achievement can be attributed mostly to the efforts
made to improve tax administration and to rationalize tax measures. The revenue-to-GDP ratio has risen
from 4 percent in 1994 to 10.4 percent in 1998. A new income tax law was adopted in 1997, reducing the
maximum personal and company income tax rates and subjecting public enterprises to income taxes. In
addition, excise taxes on consumption goods were significantly increased and brought onto an ad valorem
basis. In 1998, the Rwanda Revenue Authority (RRA) commenced operations and is expected to
significantly strengthen the tax administration. The revenue-to-GDP ratio in 1999, however, stayed shy of
the level achieved in 1998 by 0.7 percent. The lower than expected value of imports, combined with lower
duty rates and problems in the customs administration, contributed to this performance. A draft VAT law
is under preparation and was submitted in March 2000 to the National Assembly.
lII. POVERTY DIMENSIONS AND ITS REDUCTION
A.   THE DIMENSIONS OF POVERTY
l.    Poverty in Rwanda has been a structural phenomenon but has worsened significantly since the
1980s and, particularly, after the genocide. The ability of a typical household to afford basic necessities
such as food, shelter, clothing, medical care, and educational services has significantly eroded in the 1990s.
The proportion of households below the poverty line is estimated to have increased from 40 percent in 1985
to 53 percent in 1993 and 70 percent in 1996. Social indicators, particularly survival rates, have worsened
considerably. Owing to genocide, many households have become vulnerable, especially those headed by
females and minors. Recent data indicate the further spread of HIV/AIDS epidemic in the country,
especially in the rural areas. About 11 percent of the rural (up from 1.3 percent in 1986) and 11.6 percent
of the urban population 12 years old and above were found to be seropositive. An estimated 22,000 people
between 15 and 49 years of age died of AIDS in 1998. Malnutrition remains a severe health problem.
Significant and rapid poverty reduction and economic development are needed to improve conditions of
living in the country.
B.  POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
2.     The government of Rwanda's vision for poverty alleviation encompasses the following key
components:
(a)    good governance, democratization, national conciliation to ensure national political
stability and security, grassroots participation in development and decision making;
- 120-



(b)     macroeconomic stability and economic reforms and programs that empower the
population and raise agricultural productivity, rural incomes, and off-farm employment;
(c)     promotion of an all-inclusive economic system that allows effective participation of all
social and economic groups and creating an enabling environment for private sector
development, in addition to increasing the effectiveness of the state while reducing the role
of the public sector;
(d)     human resource development in all its components; and
(e)     promotion of regional economic integration by facilitating and reducing the costs of
access to the ocean ports.
3.     The Government, with the support of the international community, has been working to address the
consequences of the genocide and the inherited socio-economic problems, resettle returning refugees,
promote national reconciliation and rehabilitate administrative, judicial and social institutions. Local
elections are to be held so as to ensure broad participation in the political and economic arenas at
grassroots level. Progress has been made in the trial of detained persons for their alleged involvement in
the genocide. Government continues to explore ways to deal with the cases of the accused persons in a fair
and expeditious manner. In 1998, the Government took the decision to release 10,000 detainees for lack of
adequate evidence and the process of releasing the eligible detainees is underway. The National Assembly
is considering new legislation to further expedite the trials through traditional forms of justice at the
community level leading to non-custodial sentences.
4.     With the assistance from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, the Government of
Rwanda adopted a second Policy Framework Paper (PFP) in October 1999. The current phase of the
reform program is supported by the ERC of IDA and the 3-year PRGF arrangement of IMF. The paper
expresses our strong commitment to create an enabling policy environment for the development of a
market-oriented systems through reforms in the institutional, regulatory and incentives framework. Steady
progresses have been made on the macroeconomic policy framework as shown in the preceding paragraphs.
The continued GDP growth and stable inflation rate indicate the prudent macroeconomic management of
the current administration. The fiscal revenue shortfall experienced in 1999 was appropriately dealt with
by the budget cut made during mid-year budget review, which was presented to and approved by the
National Assembly. In line with the policy framework, the social sector spending was protected from the
cuts.
5.     The implementation of the reform program is generally on schedule. The amendment to the civil
code to eliminate gender discrimination on inheritance and property rights was passed by the National
Assembly and signed into law by the President in November 1999. A new banking law was adopted in
August 1999 and in February 2000. The BNR (Central Bank of Rwanda) has issued new prudential and
capital requirements in accordance with the new bank law, providing the basis for the restructuring of the
banking sector.
6.     The Government is also in the process of reducing the level of State intervention in input
distribution, crop production, processing and marketing activities.  It has liberalized the processing,
marketing, and export of coffee which has enabled farmers to receive higher and competitive producer
prices without resorting to government subsidies. More detailed discussion on the progress of the reform
program, relating to the rural sector, is described in the subsequent paragraphs.
- 121 -



C.  POVERTY REDUCTION AND THE RURAL SECTOR
7.     The rural sector, especially agriculture, is a vital component of Rwanda's economic recovery
process as it makes an important contribution to GDP, employment and export revenues. Agricultural
growth has, however, slowed down quite significantly over the last two decades, leading to a continuous
increase in the level of poverty. The annual growth rate of aggregate production has dropped to -2.0
percent by the early 1990s from 0.8 percent in the early 1980s. As a result, per capita food production (in
kilo calories) by Rwandan farmers dropped by 25 percent, from 2,055 per person per day in 1984 to 1,509
per person per day in 1991. The decline in per capita food production is partly due to Rwanda's high rate
of population growth and extremely limited access to land, with an average population density of 574
people per square kilometer of cultivable land, the highest in Africa. The civil war and genocide in 1994
have greatly contributed to the sharp deterioration of the situation in the agricultural as well as other
sectors of the country's economy. Total agricultural production declined sharply (40 percent), recovering
only recently to about 75 percent of its 1990 level. Yields have also declined for most crops. As a result,
per capita food production (in kilo calories) further declined from 1,509 per day in 1991 to an average of
1,210 per day in 1995-96. Since over 90 percent of the population is dependent on agriculture, the decline
in agricultural production has meant widespread poverty in the rural population as well as high cost of
living in the urban areas. The country is now faced with the challenges of feeding the current population of
8 million and improving the well-being of the population beyond the 15 years ahead.
8.     Agriculture also accounts for the overwhelming share of Rwanda's export. Agriculture in the early
1980s accounted for less than 50 percent of total exports. This percentage steadily increased to 97 percent
in 1987 because of the near cessation of mineral exports, but declined to 90 percent in 1989, following a
recovery of mineral exports. Coffee has continually been the most important agricultural export. Tea
production started in the 1960s and its rapid expansion has made it the second largest source of foreign
exchange, accounting for 15 percent of total export receipts in 1989. Nevertheless, Rwanda's export
performance is very low with export receipts of about US$16 per capita, one of the lowest in Sub-Saharan
Africa (SSA) and way below the average of US$100 for SSA, excluding Nigeria and South Africa. Due to
the sharp (60 percent) decline in coffee exports, the value of total merchandise exports decreased from an
average of about $60 per person during 1970-79 to only $13 per person in 1991. This adversely affected
the external current account and budget deficits, and created severe imbalances in the economy.
9.     To systematically address the problem of poverty reduction, the Government is currently preparing
a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The rural development policies laid out in this document fall
within this context. The Government has reaffirmed the importance of the agricultural sector for long-term
development and shown a strong commitment to revitalizing the rural economy through intensification and
commercialization of agricultural production and diversification of economic activities in the rural areas.
The creation and maintenance of enabling policy conditions for the development of market-oriented
agricultural systems through reforms in the institutional, regulatory, and incentives frameworks are
indicated as the key areas in the medium term. In order to achieve those objectives, the promotion of export
competitiveness of agricultural products through further liberalization of the trade, exchange, and
investment regimes would be pursued.
- 122 -



IV. THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROBLEM IN RWANDA
1.     Agriculture in Rwanda is carried out on small farm holdings averaging I hectare per family in
fragmented lots. Over half of the farm holdings are less than I hectare in size, with average farm holdings
fragmented into 14 parcels of land. Coffee, the largest export crop, is produced on very small stands, while
tea is produced by small village associations, industrial plantations and private farms.  The small
agribusiness sector is comprised of beverages, textiles, agricultural tools and implements and household
products.
2.     Agriculture in Rwanda has been for the most part one of subsistence. A large number of rural
households are, however, increasingly becoming net purchasers of food because of the declining land
productivity and declining incomes which are responsible for a deteriorating food security situation. The
challenge facing rural development in Rwanda consists in achieving increases in labor productivity in the
farm sector and in significantly expanding off-farm employment in rural areas. An expansion in off-farm
employment would reduce the labor pressure and facilitate productivity increases in the farming sector. It
would also broaden markets by raising the effective demand for agricultural surplus.  In general,
agricultural productivity has been declining in Rwanda for over a decade due to the following reasons:
(a)     over-exploitation of cultivated land, which is linked to high population densities (one of
the highest in the world) and the absence of any additional non-cultivated land;
(b)     increasing erosion from over-exploitation and reduction of the vegetative cover;
(c)     absence of modem input (chemical fertilizer) use to compensate for the absence of fallow
and over-exploitation;
(d)     weak research, extension and other agricultural services (improved seeds, credit, post
harvest, etc.) aggravated by the recent genocide;
(e)     absence of tenure security that discourages investment in and improvement on agricultural
land; and
(f)     unclear economic policy and regulatory environment affecting agriculture.
3.    In addition, the limited size of agricultural markets, inadequate transport facilities, lack of
appropriate rural infrastructure, including storage and swamp water control facilities, and weak rural
financial services; inappropriate fiscal burden on the sector; and restrictions on labor mobility have
adversely affected agricultural growth in the past. The combination of rapid population growth, with
limited availability of agricultural land and declining productivity, has resulted in the following set of
problems of Rwanda's rural sector:
(a)     increasing labor intensity and declining labor productivity;
(b)     strong subsistence orientation, reinforced by weak commodity and labor markets;
(c)     pressure on local off-farm employment and wages; and
(d)     declining incomes and a deteriorating food security situation.
- 123 -



These problems reinforce each other as limited market orientation reduces the incentive for technology
innovation, which is necessary to raise labor productivity and incomes.
A.  SUBSISTENCE ORIENTATION AND GROWTH IN RWANDA'S AGRICULTURE
4.     The extent of subsistence orientation among Rwandan farmers has been brought to light through
household-level research carried out by Michigan State University (MSU) and the International Food
Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) in the late eighties. The research shows that the relative lack of market
orientation among Rwandan farmers is due as much to production constraints as it is linked to constraints
on the demand side. It also indicates that, with the exception of bananas, 30 percent to 50 percent of
farmers grew no surplus to sell on local markets. Their only contact with agricultural markets was to buy
food. The ratio of those who neither buy nor sell on local agricultural markets was even higher. The
overall situation was not significantly different between land-rich and land-poor households. Moreover,
only a weak relationship has been observed between farm size and market participation. There has been
much emphasis in the policy debate on supply-side constraints to market oriented growth and, hence, on
direct measures to increase productivity. The research referred to above shows clearly, however, that
demand side factors also play a key role in the pervasive subsistence orientation among Rwanda's farmers.
There are basically two areas of concerns on the demand side: (i) the scope for domestic and foreign
demand expansion for existing and potential food and other crops; and (ii) the institutions and
infrastructure in the marketing and trading sectors, which link that demand to local suppliers. In other
words, constraints to output growth on the demand side are shown to originate from low domestic demand,
weak marketing and trading sectors, and low competitiveness in foreign markets.
5.     Since the genocide, food imports have increased significantly, due primarily to the drastic fall in
domestic production. There may, consequently, be a loosening of the demand constraint for the near future
and some scope for expansion of domestic production for local markets. However, it is unlikely that
domestic demand can carry local output growth much beyond a short-terrn recovery to pre-war production
levels, in the absence of changes in the structure and environment of Rwanda's agricultural sector to
alleviate the constraints emanating from the conditions that are described above. Even then, Rwanda will
have to make greater use of foreign markets to alleviate the domestic demand constraint and speed up
growth in output.
B.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR STRATEGY
6.     The strategic objective for Rwanda's agricultural sector remains poverty alleviation through
broad-based income generation. Considering the significance of agriculture in Rwanda's economy, this
objective can be achieved only through rapid growth in agriculture. In order to achieve such growth rate,
farmers will have to produce quantities beyond the needs of their own households. They will also have to
rely on the market to satisfy part of their demand and make production choices, not on the basis of
consumption needs, but in function of the best possible use of their resources.
7.     The concern about the need to overcome subsistence orientation, whatever its causes may be, arises
only as far as it puts a constraint on the rate of technology adoption and thereby slows the pace of
intensification and reduces the maximum achievable rate of growth. Overcoming subsistence orientation is
critical because the rate of technology adoption that is necessary to spur and sustain growth, not only in
agriculture but in the rest of the rural sector and the overall economy, is determined by the rate of
commercialization, i.e., the pace at which additional output can be absorbed through local and foreign
- 124-



markets to yield returns that are high enough to induce continued investment in better technologies.
8.     The Government of Rwanda has completed extensive work on the formulation of its agricultural
strategy.  A  Strategy Paper was produced in 1998 which provides a sound basis for detailed
implementation work programming. Additional work has been conducted during the last two years to detail
the strategic choices and priorities in certain sub-sectors, such as, food crops and livestock. The overall
framework for the agricultural strategy reflects a progressive shift towards greater market-orientation,
underpinned by intensification in input use, and diversification and specialization in agricultural
production. The strategic vision for the agricultural sector includes the following major components:
(a)   investments in rehabilitation of productive infrastructure through improved rural engineering
works and management of rural infrastructure;
(b)   rebuilding the institutional structure of agricultural extension and research delivery by
integrating the process of research-development with the extension services. In particular, the
report states that the extension services should mobilize actors as true partners through using
a participatory approach;
(c)   completely restructure the input provision services by promoting private sector involvement in
seed distribution and multiplication and in fertilizer provision;
(d)   promotion of regional specialization of agricultural and pastoral activities to: (i) promote
coffee in the west and central regions, where the soils are the most fertile; (ii) expand tea and
potato production on high altitude zones; (iii) develop production of groundnuts and soybeans
in all regions, except on the highlands; (iv) develop rice cultivation in the flooded areas; and
(v) promote livestock in the eastern regions, where studies have shown that both dairy and
agro-pastoral would have good prospects;
(e)   encourage the formation of professional organizations among farmners, agribusiness operators,
input suppliers, and private sector operators;
(f)   introduce improved farmning technologies, including small-scale irrigation, that would lead to
more efficient land use, encourage private investment in agriculture, and promote rural
financial intermediation systems;
(g)   restructure the agricultural economy by increasing areas given to forestry and pasture,
developing tea plantations on more areas, reducing the number of farmers by attracting some
of the active population to other activities, promoting growth outside of the agricultural sector
to absorb the labor coming off the land;
(h)   improve soil fertility through extensive soil conservation and management, and better cultural
practices;
(i)   rehabilitation of traditional export crops and diversification into non-traditional exports,
including the promotion of processing activities in the diary and vegetables/fruit sectors;
(j)   development of peri-urban agricultural zones through the promotion of intensive production
systems in the green belts around Kigali and other cities.
- 125 -



C.  SECTORAL CHALLENGES
9.     Poverty alleviation can be best achieved by raising the productivity of the resources owned by poor
people, which is primarily labor. In the context of Rwanda's agricultural sector, raising labor productivity
calls for a higher rate of intensification and faster commercialization of production. Given the high rate of
population density and growth, it will be necessary to complement the efforts to raise agricultural labor
productivity with efforts to raise off-farm employment. There is indeed a strong complementarity between
the two objectives for the following reasons:
(a)  labor productivity has to increase for overall incomes in the farming sector to improve and for
this to happen the farming sector will have to gradually move from its subsistence situation
and become more market-oriented;
(b)   off-farm  employment has to expand to reduce the labor pressure and facilitate labor
productivity increases in the farming sector, and to stimulate the transition from subsistence
to market orientation by raising the effective demand for agricultural surplus; and
(c)   expansion of off-farm employment is impossible without increased labor productivity in the
farming sector, due to the adverse effect of low and declining productivity on food prices and
wages.
10.    Assuming a continuous recovery process until 2002, the World Bank poverty assessment of 1998
estimates the growth rate that would be necessary to bring poverty down to its level of the mid-eighties by
the year 2012 at 5 percent. An average growth rate of 7 percent would cut poverty levels to below 20
percent, which is less than half of the levels of the mid- 1 980s. It is impossible to achieve such high rates of
growth without greater market participation by Rwandan smallholder farmer. This in turn would call for:
(i) the reduction of incentives among smallholders for autarchy by encouraging production for the market
and reducing the risk of relying on the market to satisfy food consumption needs; (ii) the alleviation of the
domestic demand constraints associated with the current production structure and trading systems; and (iii)
the acceleration of the rate of adoption of improved inputs. Against this background, the strategy of
developing Rwanda's agriculture over the next 10 to 15 years would focus on:
(a)  full exploitation of the productivity potential in an environmentally sustainable way;
(b)  removal of the bottlenecks in local transport systems and improvement in post-harvest
technologies;
(c)   development of demand responsive and sustainable agricultural services systems in order to
sufficiently generate and effectively disseminate adequate cropping and post-harvest
technologies; and
(d)   fostering of the development of off-farm productive activities in the rural areas.
- 126-



D.1. THE COFFEE AND TEA SECTORS
I.    The government has recently initiated reforms in the tea and coffee sectors which are expected to
increase production for exports and enhance rural cash incomes. Regarding tea, the government enacted a
37 percent increase in producer prices of tea in the beginning of 1999. It recognizes the importance of
adopting a framework for the operation of the tea sectors, including a revision of the legal mandate and
attributions of OCIR-The, an institution under public ownership with commercial regulatory and
promotional responsibilities. The policy is to convert it into an entity responsible for regulating, promoting,
and monitoring the performance of the tea sector. A draft policy paper has been prepared and is to be
discussed and eventually adopted by the Cabinet. Furthermore, the assets of the tea factories and the
associated public-owned estates are to be sold to private investors, with minority stakes reserved for
cooperatives of tea outgrowers, in reaction to the demand by the latter for participation in factory
ownership. Moreover, a Tea Board, as an industry-based organization, is to be established to promote the
development of the tea sector.
12.    Changes in the coffee sector, including the removal of the coffee export tax in 1999, have increased
the producer prices and attracted a number of new firms into the marketing and processing of coffee. As a
result of the government's effort to promote producer association in the coffee sector, the latter are playing
and increasing role in the sector's activities, such as in the distribution of modem inputs and the direct sale
of coffee to exporters. The planned transformation of OCIR-Caf& into an industry-based organization,
with a mandate limited to regulation, monitoring, and promotion, including research and possibly the
provision of extension services, is the next significant step in the reform program. Furthermore, consistent
with the liberalization of the sector, the law abolishing the Coffee Stabilization Fund was adopted by the
National Assembly in 1999.
D.2 THE FOOD PRODUCTION PRIORITY PROGRAM
13.    To attain agricultural productivity and competitiveness, the Government has also embarked on a
strategy of intensification of production, regional crop specialization, and promotion of commercial
agriculture outside of the traditional export sector. The application of this strategy entails choice of crops
that will ensure rational and optimal utilization of Rwanda's limited land resources, sustainability of the
agricultural production system as well as competitive production. It is anticipated that the population, that
is engaged in and dependent on agriculture, will progressively decline with the growth of commercial
agriculture and the increase in urbanization, aided by the expansion of the service and industry sectors. It
is anticipated that in the next 30 years, the population engaged in agriculture should have dropped to less
than 50 percent. Under these circumstances, it is pertinent that the agricultural research and extension
services focus on promoting crops that will ensure food security and stability of the nation. The crops of
choice for the future have to give broad consideration to a number of factors. Some of these factors include
the following:
(a)  the crop should have wide adaptability in most of Rwanda's agro-climatic zones;
(b)  the crop should have a high nutritive value relative to other crops and should give relatively
higher nutritive element yields per unit area on annual basis;
(c)  the crop should be able to have relatively higher response to modern inputs, such as, fertilizers
- 127-



and improved agricultural practices;
(d)   due to limited capacity to undertake research, the crops of choice should be those which have
been well researched elsewhere, and technology and know-how on their production are well
advanced so as to ease acquisition of the relevant technology on production and use of such
crops;
(e)  the production of such crop should be compatible with other farm enterprises and their
production should be complementary to other farming sectors such as livestock and
agro-industry;
(f)  the crop should favor integration with other cropping patterns, such as, crop rotations and
inter-cropping as well as promote optimization of the limited land resources;
(g)  the crop should be easy to store, transport and market;
(h)  the crop should readily suit the use of modem  farming systems, especially agricultural
mechanization;
(i)  the crop should have wide marketability inside the country and in the region;
(j)  the crop should have relatively higher returns to investment;
(k)  there should exist severe deficit in terns of production compared to current requirements.
14.   In accordance with the above criteria, research and extension services in the future will target
several key food crops, including maize, rice, and beans, plus livestock, and to a lesser extent sorghum and
cassava. The program aims at increasing livestock production for milk and meat to a level where farming
may be partitioned equally between crop and livestock activities. When this is achieved, the importance of
beans in the national diet as source of protein may decrease as more animal products become available in
the common people's diet. The increase in the production of maize and rice will enhance the realization of
this goal as more crop residues and agro-industrial by-products from these crops find their way into
livestock feeding. The support to sorghum and cassava will be targeted to the zones with low fertility and
rainfall. Irish potato will also be promoted on the lava soils of high altitude. For the remaining key crops
that are regular in the national diet, including sweet potatoes, bananas, peas and groundnuts, research and
extension services will be relatively on the lower scale. The support to other crops, such as fruits and
vegetables, will be appraised on case-by-case basis.
D.3 POLICY CHOICES
1. Exploitation of the Productivity Potential
15.   In order to fully exploit the production potential in Rwanda's agricultural sector, it is critical to:
(i) make investments for the improvement of agricultural infrastructure in arable areas to expand the scope
of production; and (ii) develop practical management arrangements to exploit and maintain that
infrastructure. Marshlands and hill-side areas have particular significance and potential for development.
Currently, about 50 percent of the 165,000 ha marshland in Rwanda are being farmed. Of these cultivated
marshlands, only 5,000 ha have had any type of improved infrastructure suitable for efficient use of the
- 128 -



land. Moreover, the infrastructure in approximately 4,000 ha of this last category of farmed marshlands is
in serious need of rehabilitation and requires immediate measures.
16.    The rehabilitation of farmed marshlands and hill-sides must be accompanied by appropriate
measures to diffuse among farmers suitable and sustainable technologies and practices to efficiently
manage marshlands and hill-side crops. Significant efforts would need to be made with respect to R&D,
technical advisory, and training services aimed at farmers. Beneficiary community participation in the
design, construction, management, and maintenance of land and water conservation infrastructure would
also be essential for the sustainable long-term development in these areas. The training of and institutional
support to community groups and private operators would be an important part of the strategy to exploit
the production potential.
2.   Removal of Bottlenecks in Local Transport Systems and Improvement in Post-Harvest
Technologies
17.    Bottlenecks in the local transportation sector affect negatively the process of commercialization
and thus the level of competitiveness of Rwanda's agricultural sector. The upgrading and expansion of
small-scale transport infrastructure in rural areas are the priorities in achieving this goal. In addition to
rehabilitating the infrastructure, the increase in the means of transportation, available to farmers, would
accelerate the process of agricultural commercialization of the agricultural products. The introduction of
simple and cost-effective Appropriate Means of Rural Transport would contribute to this end. Similarly,
better access by farmers to efficient post-harvest technologies, including storage and processing, would
effectively contribute to reducing the significant post-harvest losses. Both would raise rural incomes and
provide incentives for farmers to invest in better technologies and raise productivity.
3. Improving Agricultural Services Delivery Systems
18.    The efficient and effective systems to deliver agricultural technologies to farmers are prerequisite
for improving farmers' knowledge on the management and maintenance of crops and modem inputs. We
have already set the strategies for the research and extension, which focus on adaptive research,
decentralization of the delivery systems, and the greater involvement of beneficiaries. Further efforts will
be needed to strengthen Rwandan research institutions, both public and private, integration of farmer
organizations and private sector operators in the design and implementation of the technology dissemination
policies, and the empowerment of farmer associations and the improvement of skills of SLOs.
4. Exploiting Sectoral Linkages More Effectively
19.    Tradable crops are the entry point to foster commercialization and intensification in the subsistence
sector. The primary candidates in the case of Rwanda would be the two industrial crops, coffee and tea.
Significant institutional and technological skills have already been accumulated in the production and
trading of these crops. It would, however, be necessary to add other cash crops to these two that can be
diffused amongst smallholder farmers across broad areas of the country. In order to do that, there should
be strong R&D efforts to explore the possibility of different demand-elastic crops for adoption by farmers.
The benefit of expanding production of such industrial as well as other tradable food and non-food crops c
ould be tremendous, even for the traditional food crop sector. Through their multiplier effects, agricultural
tradables are the most effective means of achieving rapid and broad-based income growth in Rwanda's
rural sector. The production and sales of these crops do not only generate income directly but also
indirectly through the demand and consumption linkages.
- 129 -



20.    The promotion of off-farm production activities in rural areas is to be seen against the background
discussed above. The off-farm sector has a significant role to play, not only in creating employment and
generating incomes, but also in reinforcing growth in the rural farm  sector.  A  more buoyant
off-farm-sector creates demand for food and other local agricultural goods, thereby contributing to the
loosening of the demand constraint referred earlier. Furthermore, most of these off-farm sector activities
would be agriculture-based and would add value to agricultural activities. Moreover, a growing off-farm
sector induces demand for off-farm goods on the part of farm households and hence provides incentives for
output expansion, while stimulating the commercialization process through which these households can
derive the incomes that would give them access to these goods. These linkages highlight the importance of
off-farm sector development and growth for the realization of the objectives of agricultural intensification
and commercialization.
D.4  THE NEED TO PURSUE ONGOING POLICY REFORM
21.    The outcome of the above strategies would require the continuation and rapid completion of the
policy reforms that have been initiated by the Government of Rwanda over the last few years. In
particular, the reform of land use policies are to be pursued in line with the need to encourage long-term
investment by producers and other economic operators in cropping technologies. Adequate policies for the
access to and use of agricultural land are crucial for the intensification and productivity improvement in the
agricultural sector. The development of new land, fit for cultivation, and the restoration of long-term
fertility require a transparent legal and institutional framework that establishes property and user rights.
The establishment of transparent rights is pertinent to sustained investments in soil conservation and land
improvement. The Government is currently preparing a draft Land Law which is scheduled to be adopted
by June 2001.
22.    A further area, where policy reforms need to be continued, relates to the privatization of the coffee
and tea sectors. Renewed growth in these sectors is crucial in the economic revitalization of the rural
econlomy. A new policy framework needs to be created, which encourages long-term investment by private
operators to upgrade processing facilities and develop marketing and export capacities.  The new
framework should also create the scope for greater involvement and responsibility on the part of growers
and their organizations. It is important to note at this junction that a Privatization Law has been already
adopted by the Government. Its implementation is currently underway but needs to be accelerated. The
necessary efforts will be made to complete the privatization process in these two very important
sub-sectors.
-130 -



- 131 -






2B30'                               2YtWO                               2SPso     j                          aD~o0                                  D0
-1                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)
2i.. 2Y(f
)                  UGANDA
8  0  t                        / J t  X  TANZANIA
RWANDA
DEM. RER
6   NAnlONAL CAPITAL                                 OF CONGO                              /                        .18
(9  PREFECURE CAPITALS                                                                K% BMe;
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                    ba
MAIN ROADS                                          / .RERE                              N                                         GlT07     .
INTERNATIONAL BONDARIES                                                KALAGI                                 8 (O'A
9 @ <AMU   M~-4NGOUSU
, <- GA7ARE  , MIIKO - MUSANGE  MURADL. g . L NvEDA  s}o~r   GASOR                                RE
pBURUNDI            <NAAUE                                                     M    A          ,.                DR                
REED    Lake                                        . j . .                                          RU E GARAMA  N ,  ,, , ,   ' GISHAM0RJ t                           take
D  TANZANIA                                                    -  KWU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)ER  ARUtIE5G
coNG9t7ny  DEM.                                                                                                                         ThiP kap easnA  prepared by the aK
lXLI./                                                              0              0 15      2                       Desi aIJnitoFTheDA  Wodd Ban2.
rnGr Zi8 OF    CNGOtoraSH=I  e  } I','. ,                             asdasyotherisforraaionshownon MGN
_MOZAMBIQUEY                            _\                                          2       tS                 MILES 0    S    10   IS   20   25   30        The WorfdSBask Groop. any judgmRenf  f
iw   r  1  1   J   .   .    \                      2sli0                                 aW                                   383De  obny edndorsemenf or rarxepfonre of su j 14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ny edoremes orocc
NYABISIND ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~osdde.ofsd



