Report No. PID9531
Project Name                     Rwanda-Rural Sector Support Project (@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Agriculture
Project ID                       RWPE64965
Supplemental Project             RWPE70700
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, ANIMAL
RESOURCES AND FORESTRY
(MINAGRI)
Kigali, Rwanda
Contact Person: Alfred Mutebwa,
Director, Planning and Agricultural
Statistics Division, MINAGRI, Kigali
Tel: (250) 85053
Fax: (250) 85057
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 2, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         October 23, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 29, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Macroeconomic and Sectoral Strategic Options2.1 The Government of Rwanda,
with the assistance of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund,
has completed a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) in October 1999, outlining
its objectives for the medium-term and laying out the framework for an
adjustment program which is being supported by the Bank's ongoing Economic
Recovery Credit (ERC), and the Fund's Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (PRGF). One of the main components of the ERC is the
revitalization of the agricultural and rural economy. Furthermore, the
Government has recently completed an interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
(PRSP), which will guide future Bank and Fund intervention in the
country. The rural development component of the PRSP confirms the
Government's strategic choice of revitalizing the rural economy through
intensification and commercialization of agricultural production and
diversification of economic activities in the rural areas. It also
confirms its commitment to create and maintain an enabling policy
environment for the development of a market-oriented agricultural system
through reforms in the institutional, regulatory, and incentives framework
as well as its strategy to promote export competitiveness through further
liberalization of the trade, exchange, and investment regimes. The Rural
Development Problem in Rwanda2.2 The rural development problem in Rwanda
has been described in great details in the 1998 Bank report on
Agricultural Intensification in Rwanda. According to the report, the
combination of rapid population growth with limited availability of
agricultural land has resulted in the following set of problems in Rwanda'
s rural sector: (a) increasing labor intensity and declining labor



productivity in the agricultural sector; (b) strong subsistence
orientation of agricultural production, reinforced by weak commodity and
labor markets; (c) the resulting pressure on local off-farm employment and
wages; and (d) declining incomes and a fragile food security situation.
These problems reinforce each other as limited market orientation reduces
the incentives for technology innovation, which is necessary to raise
labor productivity and incomes. Using the results from two major
household-level studies carried out in the late eighties by the
International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) and Michigan State
University (MSU), the report shows that the relative lack of market
orientation among Rwandese farmers is due as much to production
constraints as it is linked to constraints on the demand side. These
constraints emanate from: (i) production conditions which encourage
household consumption over market transaction, given the low opportunity
cost of labor and the fact that most food crops can be grown in many parts
of the country; (ii) a production structure which includes very few cash
crops that are grown over wide areas and, therefore, fails to stimulate a
broad supply of marketing services or foster the integration of
smallholders into the market process; (iii) a low rate of urbanization,
which means that there are few significant deficit areas to generate the
excess demand to stimulate supplies from potential surplus areas; and (iv)
insecure access to markets, which undermines trading as a reliable measure
to cope with food insecurity and encourages a tendency to autarchy as a
rationale response. The Strategic Objectives and Choices for Accelerated
Rural Growth2.3 The Bank report also suggests that the supply-side
measures that build the core of the government strategy, such as raising
the average farm size, decreasing the person-to-land ratio, or promoting
access to fertilizer, would not by themselves lead to sustained increases
in the rate of intensification, even though they are an important part of
the solution. The level of investment in technical innovation that is
necessary for sustained intensification and productivity increases depends
on the rate of commercialization, i.e., the pace at which additional
output can be absorbed through local and foreign markets to yield returns
that are high enough to induce continued investment in better
technologies. Hence, it is impossible to achieve such high rates of growth
without greater market participation by Rwandan smallholder farmers. The
strategic choices for Rwanda's agricultural sector should, therefore, be
guided by the need to: (a) reduce the incentives among smallholders for
autarchy by encouraging production for the market and reducing the risk of
relying on the market to satisfy food consumption needs; (b) alleviate the
domestic demand constraints associated with the current production
structure and trading systems; and (c) raise the rate of adoption of
improved inputs.2.4 The challenge to implement a market-based rural
development strategy in the context of an essentially subsistence-oriented
agricultural sector is considerable. However, it is evident that
increased commercialization of agricultural production and greater export
orientation are the best ways to achieve sufficiently high growth rates,
not only in agriculture, but also in the rest of the rural sector and the
overall economy, and, thereby, achieve sustained poverty alleviation in
Rwanda. The Bank's 1998 Poverty Assessment Report estimates the per
capita growth rate that would be necessary to bring poverty down to its
level of the mid-eighties by the year 2012 at 5 percent. With a growth
rate of 7 percent, the level of poverty would be cut by about half. There
is ample evidence in the development literature, which indicates that the
maximum achievable long-term rate of growth under subsistence agriculture
- 2 -



is between 1 percent and 2 percent. As a comparison, the rate of growth
of the index of agricultural production in Rwanda was 0.8 percent between
1975 and 1984, falling to -2.2 percent between 1985 and 1989 and -6.7
between 1990 and 1996. Increased market orientation is, therefore, seen
by the Government of Rwanda as the central element of its rural growth and
poverty alleviation strategy.
2. Objectives
2.1 The development objective of Phase I of the program is to equip
farmers, other target private sector operator groups, and the relevant
government institutions with the basic institutional and technical
capacities that should lay the groundwork for subsequent
productivity-raising interventions in the areas of: (a) agricultural
services delivery systems; (b) small-scale rural infrastructure
development and maintenance; (c) rehabilitation of marshland and hill-side
farming; (d) promotion of traditional and alternative export agriculture,
and (e) diversification of economic activities in the off-farm sector of
the rural areas. Although capacity-strengthening will be the focus of the
first phase, activities will be initiated in each of the above five areas
in order to support ongoing economic recovery strategies and provide the
opportunity for hands-on learning.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
5.1 IDA has a strong comparative advantage in providing adequate funding
and ensuring commitment for a sufficiently long time. Adequate funding
and long-term commitment in turn are critical for the learning processes
and experiments that are necessary to empower beneficiary groups and local
communities to effectively take ownership and ensure sustainability.
Furthermore, IDA is bringing substantial international experience with
respect to community-based development activities and support to
agricultural services. Moreover, the ongoing IDA project on Agricultural
and Rural Market Development is using an approach that systematically
involves specialized local organizations in the implementation of its
activities and thereby developing local capacities for planning and
execution of development projects and the provision of technical advisory
services. The proposed program would provide the opportunity to broaden
that experience. 5.2 Rwanda is at the beginning of a process of
administrative and political decentralization which would benefit strongly
from IDA's substantial experience in this area elsewhere in Africa as well
as outside of the continent. The proposed decentralized implementation of
the program activities would contribute to strengthening the capacities of
local administrations to plan and implement infrastructure improvement and
other economic development strategies. The financial support to local
administrations and communities under the program would also provide the
opportunity to strengthen financial management capacities of local
administrations as well as promote the establishment of accountability and
transparency arrangements.
4. Description
1.1 Rehabilitation of Farmed Marshland and Hill-side Areas. The specific
objective of this component would be to establish effective mechanisms
to: (a) facilitate the adoption by beneficiary farmers of efficient and
sustainable technologies and practices to profitably manage marshland and
hill-side crops; and (b) encourage and develop the skills of private
operators to intervene in land and water infrastructure construction and
- 3 -



maintenance. Currently, about 50 percent of the 165,000 ha marshland in
Rwanda are being farmed. Of these, only 5,000 ha have had any type of
improved infrastructure. Figures from MINAGRI indicate that the
infrastructure on 4,000 ha out of the 5,000 ha is in serious need of
rehabilitation. The objective under this part of the program would be to
rehabilitate and develop the infrastructure on 25 percent of the currently
farmed marshland, about 20,000 ha, over the 14-year period. The component
would include five sets of activities:financing of small-scale drainage
and irrigation infrastructure on farmed marshlands;financing of R&D and
infrastructure for soil and natural resources conservation on marshlands
and hill-sides;advisory services on cropping and water management
technologies;training of farmer groups and other target private sector
operators in construction, management, and maintenance of land and water
conservation infrastructure; institutional support to producer
organizations and community groups; andsoil fertility restoration
measures.1.2 Integrated Management of Critical Ecosystems. The Program
would, under its various components, introduce better land husbandry,
including appropriate land use, crop-livestock practices, improved
integrated plant nutrient techniques and make required inputs more
accessible to stakeholders. Since soil fertility problems and land
resources degradation have been identified as major reasons for
encroachment into the Protected Areas (PAs) and Forest Reserves (FRs),
increased access to inputs and the introduction of improved soil and water
management measures are expected to result in reduced encroachment. The
project will also promote off-farm productive activities in rural areas,
which could alleviate pressure on the land, particularly in critical
habitats and areas adjacent to the PAs and FRs. In addition to the above,
the specific objective that is targeted under the current component is to
promote the adoption of improved soil, water and fertility conservation
techniques by beneficiary farmers and strengthen the capacities of local
communities to effectively manage critical ecosystems. The component
would include the following set of activities:development of an enabling
environment for sustainable resource use: policy framework, regulations,
institutional support;development and implementation of community-based
integrated management plans for critical ecosystems (wetlands, drylands,
and mountain areas);creation of an Environmental Information System
(EIS);capacity building and institutional strengthening to support a
decentralized integrated management of natural resources.The component
would be further developed by MINITERE in collaboration with MINAGRI into
a parallel GEF operation that would be supported by the RSP Program as its
baseline operation. The preparation of the GEF activity would be
completed by the time RSP becomes effective.1.3 Promotion of Commercial
and Export Agriculture. This component would seek to empower traditional
export crop farmers to take over the management of all commercial and
technical activities that are currently the responsibility of the two
parastatals in the tea and coffee sectors, respectively, OCIR-The and
OCIR-Cafe. The private operators who would eventually acquire the
currently state-owned, but soon to be privatized, factories in the two
sub-sectors, are not expected to render the same services without
compromising the commercial independence of private farmers and, hence,
future profitability of tea and coffee production. In addition to tea and
coffee, there are ongoing efforts by private operators to develop new
export crops, primarily in the horticulture sector. The efforts to
promote commercialization of agriculture would also target crops that are
traded domestically and in regional markets. Under the current component,
- 4 -



support would be provided to farmers that are willing to invest in the
production of these new crops. The support would consist primarily of
technical support to farmers on cropping and post-harvest technologies and
facilitation of access to resources for investment in processing and
commercial activities. The planned activities under RSP would focus
on:provision of advisory services on production and post-harvest
technologies to farmers and other private sector operators;financing of
post-harvest R&D and infrastructure;financing of technical assistance and
grants to strengthen the capacities of farmer organizations;
andfacilitation of access to financing of productive technologies;
andfinancing of technical assistance and capital investment to establish
farmer-owned Commercial Enterprises and Technical Support Entities
(CETSE).1.4 Support to Agricultural Services Delivery Systems. The
capacities of current research and extension institutions to generate and
disseminate agricultural technologies are quite weak and need to be
strengthened substantially. The capacity strengthening would be carried
out while taking into consideration: (a) the government's option for
adaptive research; (b) the need to decentralize the system of services
delivery; and (c) the necessity for considerably greater involvement of
beneficiaries in the design and dissemination of farming technologies.
Technology generation through adaptive research requires a minimum level
of qualified researchers. There is, accordingly, a need for a critical
mass of adequately trained scientists, covering a sufficiently broad range
of disciplines and capable of constituting a sound interface with
International Agricultural Research Centers and Sub-Regional and Regional
networks. This would call for a restructuring of the personnel of the
agricultural services institutions with a "rightsizing" objective. A
rapid external evaluation of ISAR has been carried out by appraisal and
will be expanded to other lead R&D institutions and updated regularly
during project implementation. The rapid evaluations would determine the
necessary training and re-deployment of existing staff or the recruitment
of new staff to enable the institutions to adequately meet their
responsibilities.Against this background, the program, under the current
component, would seek to: (i) restructure and build the capacities of the
lead institutions to acquire internally or externally and adapt relevant
technologies; (ii) strengthen the capacities within the current extension
services system to integrate farmer organizations and private sector
operators in the design and implementation of technology dissemination
policies; (iii) empower farmer associations and reinforce the skills of
private sector operators involved in rural development in order to enable
both groups to effectively participate in the delivery of research and
extension services. To achieve these objectives, the following activities
would be carried out under the current component:financial and technical
assistance to strengthen the capacities of private and restructured lead
public R&D institutions to borrow, adapt, and disseminate improved
cropping, conservation, and post-harvest technologies;financial support
and training of farmer organizations on techniques of participatory
research and extension services delivery; andtechnical assistance to
private operators willing to invest in services delivery activities.1.5
Small-scale Rural Infrastructure Development. Reducing the unit cost of
moving goods across space and over time is as important to the objectives
of commercializing and increasing the competitiveness of Rwanda's
agriculture as is the reduction of production costs. Although they do not
constitute yet the most serious obstacle to agricultural output expansion
and intensification in Rwanda, it would not be long before the quality of
- 5-



local transport systems would become a major constraint to efforts of
accelerating growth in the agricultural sector. Hence, the first
objective of the current phase would be to upgrade and expand small-scale
transport infrastructure in the rural areas. In addition to poor
infrastructure, the rarity of adequate transport equipment would also
significantly limit the potential to stimulate agricultural production as
well as other economic activities in rural areas. Finally, moving crops
over time can be as important as transporting them across space. Current
estimates indicate that as much as 25 percent to 30 percent of harvested
quantities are lost due to inadequate post-harvest technologies.
Therefore, the component's second objective would be to facilitate the
access to adapted post-harvest infrastructure and Appropriate Means of
Rural Transport (AMT). Given its local specificity, the necessary
development and improvement of transport infrastructure would have to be
planned and implemented at the local level. Furthermore, it would be
important to ensure that the AMTs and post-harvest infrastructure that are
introduced can be serviced locally in a technically satisfactory manner.
Consequently, the third objective would be to create the capacities among
local communities and in the private sector to construct and/or maintain
the transport equipment and infrastructure in question. Four activities
are planned under this component: institutional and financial assistance
to support the local administrations to plan, implement and/or supervise
the conservation and transport infrastructure development and maintenance
activities;technical assistance to private operators willing to invest in
conservation, post-harvest, and transport infrastructure construction and
maintenance activities;financial assistance to farmer groups for the
acquisition of post-harvest infrastructure and AMTs; andtechnical
assistance to private operators for the construction and/or maintenance of
AMTs.1.6 Promotion of Off-farm Productive Activities in Rural Areas. The
objectives behind the promotion of off-farm productive activities are
threefold: (a) the creation of additional employment and incomes and thus
a direct contribution to the poverty reduction objective; (b) the
expansion of the effective demand for food and other agricultural goods
and, hence, the stimulation of production; and (c) greater responsiveness
of the supply of locally produced off-farm goods. The latter objective is
important in order to avoid a situation in which the increased demand for
these goods, that would result from higher agricultural productivity and
incomes, would be translated into higher prices, which, in turn, not only
would reduce the real value of added agricultural incomes but also
ultimately lead to higher agricultural wages. Both would have negative
implications in terms of slowing down the pace of intensification and
commercialization of agriculture. The activities through which these
objectives would be realized are: preparation and piloting of local
off-farm development strategies;financing of R&D for selected off-farm
production activities;training in enterprise development and management;
andprovision of seed-funding and facilitation of access to rural
investment credit.1.7 Program Support and Coordination. The component's
objective would be to achieve effective implementation and coordination of
all program activities. Given the local nature of many of its proposed
interventions, the various phases of the program would be implemented in a
decentralized way in order to ensure relevance and sustainability. The
support to be provided under this component would hence include the
necessary technical and institutional support to beneficiary groups and
local communities. Close monitoring and regular evaluation of program
activities are of critical importance for any project, but more so for one
- 6 -



that is based on decentralized implementation. Four sets of activities
are planned this component:establish a Project Support and Coordination
Unit, including a Monitoring and Evaluation Division; design and implement
a mechanism to effectively coordinate the program activitiesdesign and
implement a mechanism to effectively monitor and evaluate the program
activities;carry out a Baseline Rural Sector Survey (BSSR) in the first
year and to be updated by the end of year 4 of Phase One;carry out impact
studies at local and beneficiary levels.1.8 Indicative Project Costs
(Phase I)
1. Rehabilitation and Development of Marshlands and Hill-sides
2. Integrated Management of Critical Ecosystems
3. Promotion of Agricultural Exports
4. Support to Agricultural Services Delivery Systems
5. Small-Scale Rural Infrastructure
6. Promotion of off-farm productive activities in rural areas
7. Program Support and Coordination Unit
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 55.18
6. Implementation
Implementation Period 4.1 The Program would be implemented as a 14-year
APL, including an initial phase of expectedly four years and two
subsequent phases of 5 years each. The ultimate length of individual
phases would depend on the progress made towards achieving the respective
outcomes and meeting the stipulated triggers. Subsequent phases would be
designed in line with the program goals, taking into consideration, as
necessary, adjustments that would be dictated by the outcomes from the
preceding phase(s) as documented by the evaluation that is carried out at
the end of each phase. Implementation and Coordination Principles 4.2 Two
main options made by the Rwandese Government would guide the
implementation of the proposed program: (a) Decentralization. With the
Presidential Decree 37/01 in 1998 and the subsequent Ministerial Directive
02/0704/1 in 1999, the Government of Rwanda has launched a process to
create the legal framework for political and administrative
decentralization. A policy paper is currently under completion which,
once adopted by Government, would provide the guidelines for the
implementation of the decentralization policy. The Ministry of Local
Administration has been created in 1998 and significant measures have been
taken to restructure the local administrations and initiate a process of
consultations with local communities. (b) Adaptative Research and
Participatory Extension Systems. Given the limitation of resources and
the need to rapidly develop improved cropping technologies, Rwanda has
opted for an adaptative approach to technology generation. Instead of
developing technologies from scratch, the research system would seek to
effectively exploit the stock of available know how in the regional and
international research systems. Wherever possible, it will acquire and
adapt existing technologies to solve the technical constraints facing
-7 -



Rwandese farmers. Furthermore, in order to ensure the adequacy and speed
up the diffusion of new technologies, the research and extension systems
would be integrated and opened to effective participation from beneficiary
farmers. 4.3 Among others, the current decentralization policy paper
foresees the transfer of policy making competence to local governments in
the following areas: (i) agriculture, veterinary, forestry, and all other
extension services; (ii) local trade; (iii) small-scale industries; (iv)
land title, registration, and resettlement; (v) tourism and environmental
protection; (vi) cooperatives and associations; and (vii) local roads.
Furthermore, the Community Reintegration and Development Project (CRDP)
has been piloting a decentralized approach to designing and implementing
development activities. The project is due to close less than a year
after the expected effectiveness of the proposed Program. Its mid-term
review is to take place in March 2001. The project has been implementing
activities that constitute a subset of the activities that are proposed
under the planned Program. Moreover, it has been quite successfully
developing participatory implementation arrangements. It is, therefore,
logical to: (i) seize the opportunity provided by the proposed Program to
complement CRDP's activities in the communes where it is already active;
(ii) expand its activities to new communes, while (iii) using the same
implementation arrangements that have been already successfully piloted.
These arrangements would ensure the following implementation principles:
(a) definition, choice, management, and monitoring of public
infrastructure activities and ecosystem management plans by local
administrations; (b) full participation of beneficiary farmers in the
planning, implementation, and evaluation of: (i) research and extension
services; (ii) marshland and hill-side rehabilitation activities; and
(iii) the management of the physical infrastructure associated thereto;(c)
execution of public works by local private sector contractors, artisans,
and beneficiary groups;(d) transparency and accountability at all levels;
and(e) gradual mainstreaming of support and coordination activities at the
level of the respective implementing ministries and government
agencies.Program Coordination and Management4.4 The implementation
arrangements would follow the structure of decentralization and reflect
the option for participatory research and extension systems. Local
administrations at the prefecture and district levels would collaborate
closely with local beneficiary groups to plan and implement farmed
marshland and hill-side rehabilitation as well as rural infrastructure
development and improvement activities. Together they would prepare the
respective sub-projects and apply for funding. Similarly, activities to
support the provision of agricultural services would be implemented
whenever possible, and called for, in a tri-partite format that would
bring together the lead institution (research and extension), beneficiary
farmer groups, and private R&D institutions, including research
institutions and SLOs that intervene in the area of rural development. In
both cases, sub-projects would be designed and implemented such as to
ensure transparency, accountability, replicability, and sustainability.
Executing Agencies4.5 The Program AdvisoryCommittee. The oversight and
orientation of Program activities would be the responsibility of a Program
Advisory Committee (PAC) under the presidency of the Minister of
Agriculture, Animal Resources, and Forestry. In addition to MINAGRI, its
members would include at least representatives from the Ministries of:
(i) Finance and Planning; (ii) Local Administration and Social Affairs;
(iii) Land, Human Resettlement, and Environment; (iv) Public Works,
Transportation, and Communications; and (v) Commerce and Industry. Farmer
- 8 -



organizations would also be represented in the PAC, as would the private
agribusiness sector. The Project Coordinator would serve as PAC's
Secretary 4.6 The Program Support and Coordination Unit. A Program
Support and Coordination Unit (PSCU), which would be established within
MINAGRI, would serve as the technical arm of the Program Steering
Committee. The PSCU, led by the Project Coordinator, would be responsible
for overall management and coordination of Program activities, including
the facilitation of support to implementing local agencies and beneficiary
groups. In particular, it would be responsible for: (i) the coordination
of the preparation and implementation of the different project components;
(ii) the consolidation of annual work programs and budgets; (iii) the
establishment of a decentralized monitoring and evaluation system,
including the creation of a Monitoring and Evaluation Division (MED) to
implement M&E activities in collaboration with local administrations and
beneficiary groups; and (iv) financial and administrative management of
project activities. The PSCU staff would be recruited in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines for the recruitment of consultants. In addition to
the Project Coordinator (PC) and the usual support staff, the PSCU team
would include a Chief Financial Officer (CFO), a Project Accountant (PA),
and a Procurement Officer (PO). The MED staff would include a Monitoring
and Evaluation Coordinator (MEC), an Information Technology
Specialist/Statistician (ITS). PSCU will also include a technical
division comprising an agronomist/natural resources specialist,
agricultural economist, and a rural engineer. 4.7 Given the technical
characteristics of some of the project activities and the need to ensure
future mainstreaming of support and coordination functions into the
activities of ministries and other implementing agencies, PSCU would
collaborate closely with relevant technical departments outside of
MINAGRI. The format of collaboration and coordination is presented in the
diagram below. The terms of reference for individual participating
agencies/ministerial departments will be described in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM). It is proposed that PSCU coordinate the
implementation of Program activities with the relevant technical
directorates of other ministries and agencies as follows:Component 1 -
Rehabilitation of Farmed Marshland and Hill-side Areas - with Directorate
of Rural Engineering and Directorate of Agriculture of MINAGRI;Component 2
- Integrated Management of Critical Ecosystems - with Ministry of Land,
Human Resettlement, and Environment (MINITERE);Component 3 - Promotion of
Commercial and Export Agriculture - with Directorate of Agriculture,
Directorate of Livestock of MINAGRI and Directorate of Commerce and
Directorate of Industry (MIINECOM);Component 4 - Support to Agricultural
Services Delivery Systems - with ISAR and the Directorate of Marketing and
Extension of MINAGRI and ISAR;Component 5 - Small-scale Infrastructure
Development - with Directorate of Rural Engineering of MINAGRI and with
local administrations;Component 6 - Promotion of Off-farm Productive
Activities in Rural Areas - with Directorate of Agriculture, Directorate
of Liverstock of MINAGRI, local administrations and Directorate of
Commerce and Directorate of Industry (MINECOM); Component 7 - Program
Monitoring and Evaluation - with Directorate of Planning and Agricultural
Statistics of MINAGRI, and with CEPEX (MINECOFIN).4.8 Local
Administrations. Local administrations would have planning and oversight
responsibilities at the local level, primarily for the implementation of
public infrastructure subprojects under the small-scale rural
infrastructure component. Participating local administrations would
designate RSP coordinators who would serve as liaison between the
-9-



administrations, PSCU, beneficiaries, the private sector, and other
implementing agencies. While a limited number of CDCs are already
operational and are receiving support from CRDP or other projects in
several communes, there are many CDCs that require support to become
effective partners. PSCU would work closely with the Ministry of Local
Administration and Social Affairs (MINALOC) to provide the necessary
support to CDCs. The expected responsibilities of CDCs under individual
project components are listed below. Detailed TORs will be included in
the PIM. CDCs would work together with beneficiary groups, PSCU, and
other implementing agencies to:Component 1: participate in the: (i)
planning of marshland and hillside rehabilitation activities; (ii)
procurement of rehabilitation work; and (iii) development of strategies
for long-term utilization and management of rehabilitated areas;Component
2: (i) prepare management and zoning plans to provide for proper land use
in both the hillsides and marshlands; (ii) prepare, adopt, disseminate,
and enforce guidelines for sound environmental management; and (iii)
develop and enforce environmental standards and an environmental code of
conduct to be followed by the contractors and sub contractors implementing
the sub-projects;Component 3:plan, implement, and supervise any public
infrastructure work to promote commercial and export agriculture;Component
4: carry necessary activities to support the operation of agricultural
services delivery systems and facilitate the collaboration between lead
public research and extension institutions, beneficiary farmers, and the
private sector, including SLOs;Component 5: (i) participate in the
planning, implementation, and supervision of marketing and transport
infrastructure development and maintenance activities; and (ii)
sub-contract with private sector operators to carry out public work
related to marketing and transport infrastructure;Component 6: (i)
prepare, in collaboration with other relevant local administrations, local
off-farm development strategies; and (ii) pilot test and scale up off-farm
sector promotion activities; Component 7: (i) set up a local monitoring
and evaluation system that is linked to the PSCU's M&E system, (ii)
prepare regular evaluation report; and (iii) develop a communication and
information system to promote transparency and participation in the
implementation of project activities. Implementation Vehicles4.9 The
proposed decentralized format of implementation requires that appropriate
instruments be found to channel financial resources to implementing local
agencies and beneficiaries. For that purpose, three types of funding
facilities would be set up to provide competitive funding for activities
implemented directly by local administrations and beneficiary groups,
including farmers and other private sector operators. The clusters of
activities under individual components that can be funded through the
three Facilities are described in Table 1 of Annex 2. The procedures and
eligibility criteria for each of these Facilities are detailed in the
PIM. The three facilities are: Local Infrastructure Facility (LIF);
Rural Investment Facility (RIF); and Rural Technology Facility (RTF).Local
Infrastructure Facility (LIF). The LIF would be the mechanism to transfer
financial resources to local administrations and other local beneficiaries
to finance: (i) soil and water resources conservation infrastructure on
marshlands and hill-sides; (ii) transport infrastructure development and
maintenance activities; and (iii) construction of post-harvest and other
marketing and export cost- reducing infrastructure.Rural Investment
Facility (RIF). The RIF would provide financial incentives through
investment cost subsidy to qualified private sector operators, including
farmer groups, willing to invest in activities with substantial economic
- 10 -



or environmental externalities. For instance, investment by private
entrepreneurs in value-adding activities in the processing and
conservation sectors would generate collective benefits in terms of
alleviating the demand constraint facing the agricultural sector and
providing incentives for the intensification of crop and livestock
production activities, a major objective of the government's rural
development strategy. The RIF would finance sub-projects in the following
activity areas: (i) the operation of farmer-owned Commercial Enterprises
and Technical Support Entities (CETSE); (ii) processing, conservation, and
trading of crop, livestock, and forestry products; (iii) transport
infrastructure construction and maintenance activities; (iv) acquisition
of appropriate (adapted) means of rural transport (AMT) by farmers to be
tested under pilot activities; (v) investment by private operators in the
construction and/or maintenance of AMTs and transport infrastructure; (vi)
investment by private operators in agricultural services delivery
activities, and (vii) selected pilot off-farm productive activities.Rural
Technology Facility (RTF). The RTF would be the main vehicle to establish
and support participatory agricultural services delivery systems. It
would provide matching grants to: (a) building the institutional,
commercial, and technical capacities of farmer groups through the
establishement of farmer-owned Commercial Enterprises and Technical
Support Entities (CETSE); and (b) strengthen the capacities of
agricultural research and extension systems in order to generate and
extend improved technologies to farmers and enhance the delivery of
services. Given the very weak capacities in the research systems, the
first phase would include the: (i) rebuilding of ISAR's research and
analytical capacities; (ii) training of scientists; and (iii) building the
capacities of lead research and extension services to involve farmers and
private operators in the generation and dissemination of cropping, animal
husbandry, and post-harvest and dairy technologies, in addition to: (iv)
institutional support and grants to farmer groups to procure and
participate in research and extension services; (v) matching grants to
private operators to invest in services delivery activities; and (vi) R&D
on selected pilot off-farm productive activities.Accounting, Financial
Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements4.10 PSCU would be responsible for
financial management of project resources, including establishment of an
adequate accounting system, internal control procedures, preparation and
submission of periodic financial statements and ensuring that the
project's annual financial statements are audited in conformity with IDA
requirements. PSCU would also monitor all disbursements to ensure that
all expenditures are eligible and incurred for the purposes intended under
the project, including those through LIF, RIF, and RTF. PSCU will also
set up appropriate procedures for flow of funds to participating CDCs and
for CDCs to account for project funds, including submission of quarterly
and annual reports on the progress of implementation of their respective
subprojects.   4.11 The PSCU staff would include a Chief Financial Officer
who will have the overall responsibility for the financial functions
indicated above, and an Assistant Accountant. While the establishment of
a Financial Management System, acceptable to IDA, will be a condition of
effectiveness, the recruitment of the CFO will be funded under PPF and it
is expected that he/she will join the PSCU by the time of project
Negotiations. Early recruitment of the CFO is emphasized to allow the CFO
time to familiarize him/herself with project environment and operations
intended under various components as the team goes through the project
planning process. It should also give the CFO time to: (i) familiarize
- 11 -



him/herself with Bank's current disbursement procedures as well as Bank's
new reporting procedures under FINMI (ex-LACI); (ii) initiate the process
of establishing financial, accounting and internal control procedures for
the Program, which should be in place by the time of project
effectiveness; (iii) write up a simple manual to describe the flow of
project funds, minimum internal control procedures and, in consultation
with the Project Coordinator, establish thresholds and approvals required
for various levels of project expenditures; (iv) survey accounting
softwares available (including by visits to other IDA-financed projects in
Rwanda) and identify one that would be most appropriate for the Program;
and (v) assess if consultants would be necessary for any of the above
tasks and, if so, make specific proposals for funding such assistance
under PPF. It is envisaged that the CFO will remain in close contact with
IDA and to ensure that all arrangements for accounting and financial
management made by the time of project effectiveness are acceptable to IDA
and conform to OP/BP 10.02.4.12 Under the overall responsibility of the
CFO, the project will be required to submit quarterly Project Monitoring
Reports (PMRs) as indicated in the Bank's Project Financial Management
Manual of February 1999. However, it is almost certain that the project
(and the CFO, in particular) will need very close guidance in this task
and it is unlikely that the project will be able to produce immediately
all the 12 reports required under the new FINMI (ex-LACI) procedures.
Emphasis in the initial months will hence be on the preparation of the two
key financial reports (Sources and Uses of Funds and Uses of Funds by
Project Activity). Depending upon the competence and abilities of the CFO
and other staff, the project should be able to generate the complete PMRs
within 18 months after project effectiveness.4.13 The annual financial
statement of the project, including expenditures of all project
components, will be audited by an independent external firm of
professional auditors and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA. In
addition to the opinion on project financial statements, the auditors will
be required to provide separate opinions on the SOEs and the management
and utilization of the Special Accounts and the Decentralized Advance
Accounts at provincial levels. In line with general audit practice, the
auditors will also issue a management report with practical
recommendations for any improvements that may appear necessary in the
accounting and project internal control system. Monitoring, Evaluation,
and Reporting4.14 The proposed APL approach and the decentralized
implementation of program activities, both would require a strong
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Component. It is proposed to establish
within PSCU a Monitoring and Evaluation Division (MED), a sub-unit to
monitor activity outcomes and evaluate project impact. The M&E tasks of
the sub-unit would also include training of and support to other
implementing agencies at the central as well as local levels to establish
and implement their own internal M&E systems. The M&E modalities at the
different levels would be defined in a Program Monitoring Guide (PMG) and
an Impact Evaluation Guide (IEG) that would be prepared before project
effectiveness. As part of the impact evaluation activities, a baseline
rural sector survey (BRSS) will be carried out at the start of project
implementation to provide a basis against which the various program
indicators would be measured. The BRSS would include three separate sets
of structured surveys on: (i) farm households, (ii) off-farm sectors; and
(iii) beneficiary communes. These surveys would be implemented under PSCU
supervision and in collaboration with MINAGRI services. 4.15 The PSCU's
MED would implement a systematic and detailed monitoring and reporting
- 12 -



system focusing on both the outputs and outcomes of the project. The
system should allow an effective evaluation of: (a) the effectiveness of
the project's delivery mechanisms and procedures; and (b) the impact of
project activities on the basis of the stated objectives, the baseline
data base, and the input, output, and impact indicators that are
identified in the Project Design Summary (Annex 1) as well as the
performance triggers. The key tasks under the monitoring arrangements
would include, besides the regular monitoring of project activities: (i)
updates in year four of the project of the baseline surveys of the farm
household and off-farm sectors, and of the beneficiary communes; (ii)
analysis of the survey data through qualified and independent research
entities (universities, research centers, consulting firms); and (iii)
collection of additional information as necessary to document the progress
status of project activities. The progress towards project outcomes would
be evaluated during its execution and at project completion. A project
mid-term review would be carried out by Government to determine, based on
the results of M&E as described above, the extent to which the project is
performing vis-a-vis its development objectives. At the end of year four,
an impact study would be carried out to assess whether the trigger
indicators have been met and the program activities be extended into a
second phase.
7. Sustainability
The program would be prepared keeping the following factors in mind, as
being critical to ensuring sustainability: (i) demand-responsiveness of
program activities; (ii) simplicity of the design of sub-project; (iii)
replicability of project activities; (iv) participatory and decentralized
implementation; (v) capacity building through experimenting and learning
by doing.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
3.1 The evaluation of the following IDA projects in Rwanda has produced
valuable lessons that have been taken into consideration in the design of
the proposed program: One key lesson from the Second Integrated Forestry
Project (CR. 1811-RW) is that full recognition needs to be given to the
opportunities for beneficiaries and the private sector to participate in
the design and implementation of income generating activities. In the
case of the above project, the lack of participation has reduced the
effective benefit to rural population from the project and subsequently
led to the destruction of forest resources it sought to protect. The
design of the proposed program has, in contrast, taken into account, very
early in the process, stakeholders' views on project objectives and how
they are to be achieved. Representatives of local communes were fully
involved in the identification of issues concerning them and the
environment in which they live, thus strengthening local ownership and
reducing risk of project failure.Another important lesson that is derived
from the Second Water Supply Project (CR. 1783-RW) is that operations in
post-conflict situations need to be kept simple and that special attention
should be given to institutional and policy reforms. The relatively
complex design of the project, which involved a multiplicity of donors,
encouraged burden sharing, resulting in a broad-based multi-donor effort.
However, tangible effects were not experienced by final beneficiaries
because of difficulties to coordinate donor funding and intervention.A
series of other valuable lessons can be drawn from the Lake Kivu Coffee
Improvement and Foodcrop Project (Cr. 1126-RW), the Agricultural Research
- 13 -



Project (Cr. 1546-RW), and Gitarama Agricultural Production and MINAGRI
Institutional Development Project (Cr. 1669-RW). Most of these lessons
are relevant to the program component on agricultural services delivery
systems. They include the importance of: (i) clearly defining the
interface between the research and extension services systems prior to
project start-up and carrying out evaluations of the capacity of research
organizations during preparation; (ii) ensuring demand-responsiveness of
extension services and thereby adoption of extended technologies; (iii)
maintaining an adequate level of research activities through support to
recurrent funding in order to strengthen research services; (iv)
adequately planning research and training activities, linked to a human
resources development plan and a long-term development strategy of the
research system, keeping in mind that large increases in research and
support staff do not result in increases in research efficiency or
productivity; (v) taking full advantage of the technologies generated by
regional and international research organizations and concentrating on
testing and adapting them to local conditions; and (vi) solving the
problem of market outlets prior to making decisions on the generation and
extension of improved production techniques.In general, projects in Rwanda
and elsewhere underscore the need to pay greater attention to capacity
building, particularly among lead public institutions. In Rwanda, the
role of government in the promotion of rural development initiatives, in
particular the provision of public goods such as agricultural services and
rural infrastructure, remain essential. Furthermore, because of the local
characteristic of such goods, the successful implementation of any project
activities in these areas would require strong institutional support to
beneficiary groups, the private sector, and local administrations. A final
set of important lessons is drawn from two ongoing pilot projects: the
Community Reintegration and Development Project (CRDP) and the
Agricultural and Rural Market Development Project (ARMDP). The emerging
evidence from CRDP activities indicates that local communities, when
provided with the necessary support, can rapidly develop the capacities to
effectively design and implement community-based subprojects. In
particular, the project provides valuable lessons with respect to
community-based planning and management of local infrastructure.
Moreover, participating CDCs have proven that local administrations can
acquire the necessary capacity to handle their fiduciary responsibilities
and properly follow procurement procedures. The mechanisms that have been
put in place and have worked under CRDP would be used under the present
program.There are two main lessons from the ARMDP project. The first is
with respect to the promotion of private-sector based systems of advisory
services for small-holder farmers, as complement to existing public
extension services. The project uses sub-contracting to exploit the
capacities of specialized local organizations (SLOs) that are currently
active in the areas of rural development and natural resources management
and provide technical and institutional support to small-holder farmers.
That format will be followed in promoting demand-driven agricultural
services systems, which would ensure effective collaboration between
public R&D institutions, private operators, and farmer organizations in
generating and extending farming technologies. The other lesson relates
to the project's effort to encourage commercial banks and private
operators to invest in a key sector of the agricultural economy: the
importation and distribution of modern inputs. The project has been able
to attract new entrepreneurs into the sector and to create the conditions
for local banks to provide financing for these activities. Its formula
- 14 -



would be expanded to encourage banks and private entrepreneurs to invest
in a broader range of agribusiness activities.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        5.1.1 The EA team concluded that in the absence of
a project, the current process of degradation on the farmed wetlands will
continue due to continued loss of vegetation, accelerated erosion, and
poor drainage systems. This in turn would result in reduced water
retention capacity, leading to more frequent and damaging floods and loss
of biodiversity. Other adverse environmental impacts associated with a
no-project option are: (i) non-sustainable land use practices on
hillsides, and increased pressure on adjacent wetlands and other marginal
systems due to declining soil fertility; (ii) likely increase in nutrient
loading and eutrophication due to uncontrolled use of fertilizers and
pesticides; and (iii) deteriorating water quality. Consequently, the EA
concluded that the no-project option will be costly in both economic,
social, and environmental terms. The implementation of the project may
generate, however, its own negative environmental impacts. As is apparent
from its components, the project aims at promoting broad-based economic
growth and reducing poverty by providing a strong support to the
activities in which the poor tend to be employed, that is, agriculture and
related activities. Since land scarcity is a major constraint in Rwanda,
expanding agricultural production through intensification, infrastructure
development, and the use of chemical inputs is likely to put a relatively
high pressure on the natural resource base.5.1.2 During the first phase,
the project will support agricultural activities in about 4,000 ha of
wetlands. Although these are already farmed marshlands, noticeable
negative environmental impacts could result from the intensive
exploitation if appropriate measures are not taken. In particular,
unsustainable exploitation (e.g., uncontrolled removal of remaining
vegetative cover, intensive pesticides use, inappropriate drainage
systems) of these fragile ecosystems could impair their hydrologic and
edaphic characteristics, and possibly result in their drying up. This
could affect their productive functions (agriculture, fisheries, wood, and
other products of interest to rural livelihoods), and reduce or eliminate
key ecological functions (flood abatement, water erosion control, sediment
stabilization and water purification). Unsustainable exploitation could
also be detrimental to the flora and fauna species inhabiting the wetlands
and their surroundings. The rehabilitation of farmed lands would
certainly lead to more people being involved in irrigated agriculture.
This could increase the incidence of waterborne diseases such as malaria
and bilharzia. Finally, insufficient attention to the cumulative impacts
of the rehabilitation/development of some types of rural infrastructure,
such as feeder roads and arterial trail tracks, could affect negatively
the environment (localized erosion, for example).
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Ousmane Badiane,
E-mail address: Obadiane@worldbank.org
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
- 15 -



Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-4730
Fax:   (202) 473-5147
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 9, 2001.
- 16 -



