Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3483 RW
Project Agreement
(Rural Sector Support Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANQUE NATIONALE DU RWANDA
Dated April 25, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3483 RW
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 25, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and BANQUE NATIONALE DU RWANDA (BNR).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Rwandese Republic of Rwanda (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
thirty seven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 37,200,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that NBNR agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)  by a subsidiary financing loan loan agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and NBNR (the Subsidiary FinancingLoan Loan Agreement), a portion of the 
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be 
made available to NBNR on the terms and conditions set forth in the Subsidiary Loan 
Financing Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS NBNR, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part GH.1 of the Project;
Management and Operations of NBNR
Section 2.01. (a) NBNR declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out, or cause to be carried out, Part G.1 of the Project and conduct its 
operations and affairs, in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, 
with qualified and experienced management and in accordance with NBNR’s Statutes.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and NBNR shall otherwise agree, NBNR shall carry out, or 
cause to be carried out, Part G.1 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
the Schedule to this Agreement and the Project Implementation Manual.
(c)
NBNR shall:
(i)
make available to the PFIs the proceeds of the Credit allocated to 
Category (12) (a) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement under Participating 
Agreements to be entered into between NBNR and each PFI, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association, including the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Schedule to this Agreement; and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, take all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services or other resources, 
necessary or appropriate, to enable the PFIs to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of their respective Participating 
Agreements all the obligations of the PFIs therein set forth, and 
not to take any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
Section 2.02. (a) NBNR undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Subloans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Schedule to this Agreement.
(b)
NBNR shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subproject in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and of NBNR; 
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary FinancingLoan 
Loan Agreement and the Participating Agreements; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part G.1 of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
paragraph 4 of Part A of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.04. (a) NBNR shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part G.1 of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, NBNR shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Association and NBNR, a plan for the 
future operation of Part G.1 of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with NBNR on said plan.
Section 2.05. NBNR shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Financing Loan Agreement and the Participating Agreements. Except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, NBNR shall not take or concur in any action which would have 
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Financing Loan 
Loan Agreement, the Participating Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) NBNR shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part G.1 of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
FinancingLoan Loan Agreement and the Participating Agreements, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit and, to that end, together with the Borrower, 
review with the Association, at least once every year progress in carrying out Part 
G.1 of the Project, with a view to determining and effecting such changes as may be 
required to ensure the successful carrying out of the Project.
(b)
NBNR shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part G.1 of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BNR of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Financing Loan 
Agreement and the Participating Agreements.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) NBNR shall with respect to Part G.1 of the Project maintain 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
its operations and financial condition.
(b)
NBNR shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
relating to the Project for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
Page  4
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
BNRRBZ thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify NBNR of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, DC.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For NBNR:
Page  5
The Governor
Banque Nationale du Rwanda
P.O. Box 531
Kigali
Rwandese Republic of Rwanda
Cable address:
Telex:
22508
22509
RWANDABANK
Telefax:
77551 - 78669
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NBNR, or by 
NBNR on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Governor of NBNR or such other person or persons as NBNR shall 
designate in writing, and NBNR shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
BANQUE NATIONALE DU RWANDA
By /s/ Richard Sezibera
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 
Part  A:
Terms and Conditions Applicable to all Subloans 
1.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Subproject shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless: (i) the Subloan for 
such Subproject shall have been a Subloan in an amount approved by NBNR and for which 
the Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account; and (ii) such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on 
which the Association shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 2 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Subloan.
2.
(a)
Each request by a PFI for authorization to make withdrawals from the 
Credit Account in respect of a Subloan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the 
Page  6
Beneficiary and the Subproject, including a description of the expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the terms and conditions of the 
Subloan, including the schedule of amortization therefor; and (iii) such other 
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)
Requests made pursuant to the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph shall be presented to the Association on or before December 31, 2005.
3.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby a PFI shall obtain, by written contract 
with the Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect 
the interests of the Borrower, the Association and the PFI, including the right to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and 
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 4 of this Part; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively 
in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included 
in the Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association or the PFI shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Subproject; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations 
under its contract with the PFI.
4.
With respect to the procurement of goods and services to be financed out of 
proceeds of Subloans, each Participating Agreement shall contain provisions requiring 
each Beneficiary to comply with the following procedures, namely, that goods and 
services shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other 
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods 
and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case 
of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them.
Part B:
Miscellaneous
1.
All Subloans shall be denominated in Francs Rwandais.
2.
Each PFI shall be free to set the interest rate at which it will extend Subloans 
to Beneficiaries, and shall notify BNR of the interest rate applicable to each 
Subloan.
3.
A PFI may set the maturities and grace periods of Subloans in accordance with 
prudent standard banking practices.
4.
Unless otherwise agreed by NBNR and the Association, a Beneficiary to be 
eligible for a Subloan must: (i) be a legal or physical person lawfully engaged in 
business activities in the territory of the Borrower; (ii) have adequate technical 
expertise or experience in rural sector investment activities; (iii) possess adequate 
Page  7
infrastructure and staff; and (iv) not be involved in any legal or financial dispute 
which would materially affect its ability to undertake the Subproject.
