Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
CREDIT NUMBER 3483 RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Sector Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 25, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER  3483 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 25, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF RWANDA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
January 26, 2001, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
reform and improve the rural sector of its economy (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support the execution of 
the Program through a series of credits over a period of fourteen years, the proceeds 
of such credits to be utilized by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(D)
Part G.1 of the Project will be carried out by Banque Nationale du Rwanda 
(BNR) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance the Borrower will 
make available to BNR part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and BNR;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means: (i) a community represented by a CDC (as hereinafter 
defined) to which or for whose benefit a Grant or Subloan is made or proposed to be 
made; (ii) a Community-Based Group to whom or for whose benefit a Grant or Subloan is 
made or proposed to be made; (iii) public research and development institutions; and 
(iv) private sector operators, including farmers, each of which has met the 
eligibility criteria set out in the Project Implementation Manual and the requirements 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and which, 
as a result, has received or is entitled to receive, a Subloan or a Grant for the 
carrying out of a Subproject;
(b)
"BNR" means Banque Nationale du Rwanda, the Borrower’s Central Bank, 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law of April 24, 1964 (BNR’s 
Statutes) as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(c)
 "CDC" means the  Committee Development Committee established and 
operating as an autonomous entity in the Borrower’s territory under the Borrower’s 
laws and made up of members of the administration of a participating commune and 
elected members of its civil society;
(d)
 "Community-Based Group" means any group of two or more individuals 
residing in the Borrower’s territory that organizes itself for the purpose of 
submitting or carrying out a Subproject;
(e)
"district Commune" means a legal entity of the Borrower, established to 
exercise limited jurisdiction over a designated area and population within the 
territory of the Borrower pursuant to the Law of November 23, 1963 on Communal 
Organization, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(f)
"Eligible Categories" means: (i) Category (2) set forth in the table in 
Page  3
Part  A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement  in respect of the Special Account for Part 
G.1 of the Project; and (ii) Categories (1) and (3) through (6) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Special Account for 
Parts A through F and Part G.2 of the Project; 
(g)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in: (i) Section 2.02 (a) (i) of this Agreement in respect of the Special 
Account for Part G.1 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible 
Categories; and (ii) in Section 2.02 (a) (ii) in respect of the Special Account for 
Parts A through F and Part G.2 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit allocated from time to time to said Special Account’s respective 
Eligible Expenditures; 
(h)
"Facilities" means the Rural Investment Facility, the Local 
Infrastructure Facility and the Rural Technology Facility;
(i)
"Grant Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower and a 
Beneficiary setting forth the terms and conditions under which proceeds of the Credit 
shall be made available to the Beneficiary for the purpose of financing Subprojects 
under Part G.2 of the Project;
(j)
"Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower to a 
Beneficiary for the financing of a Subproject under Part G.2 of the Project;
(k)
"IAPSO" means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services of the United 
Nations;
(l)
"local administrations" means administration structures established and 
operating in the Borrower’s territory under the Borrower’s laws; 
(m)
"Local Infrastructure Facility" means the facility referred to in Part 
G.2 of the Project to be established and managed by the Borrower; 
(n)
"MINAGRI" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, Animal resources 
and Forestry;
(o)
"MINITERE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Land, Human Resettlement and 
Environment;
(p)
"NTB" means the Borrower’s National Tender Board established and 
operating under the Borrower’s laws;
(q)
"PAC" means the Project Advisory Committee referred to in paragraph 3 (a) 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(r)
"Participating Agreement" means any agreement entered into by BNR and a 
PFI pursuant to Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement and for the purposes of Part 
G.1 of the Project;
(s)
"Participating Financial Intermediary" or "PFI" means any development 
bank, commercial bank or financial institution registered in the territory of the 
Borrower as may be designated by BNR on the basis of eligibility criteria satisfactory 
to the Association and with which BNR shall have entered into a Participating 
Agreement;
(t)
"Program Implementation Manual" means the manual referred to in paragraph 
1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(u)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and BNR 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(v)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(w)
 "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on January 5, 2001 and on behalf of the Borrower on January 
25, 2001;
(x)
"Project Year" means the 12 month period beginning from the Effective 
Page  4
Date and ending 12 months thereafter and each successive 12 month period following 
thereafter; 
(y)
"PSCU" means the Project Support and Coordinating Unit referred to in 
paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(z)
"PTC"” means the Prefectural Tender Council of the Borrower established 
and operating under the Borrower’s laws; 
(aa)
"Rural Investment Facility" means the facility referred to in Part G.1 of 
the Project to be established and managed by BNR;
(bb)
"Rural Technology Facility" means the facility referred to in Part G.2 of 
the Project to be established and managed by the Borrower;
(cc)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(dd)
"Subloan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by a PFI to 
a Beneficiary for a Subproject to be carried out under Part G.1 of the Project;
(ee)
"Subproject" means a subproject proposed under Parts A through E and Part 
G of the Project by a Beneficiary or a Community-Based Group  for funding under Part 
G.1 of the Project; and
(ff)
"Subsidiary Financing Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and BNR pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Financing Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty seven million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 37,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower or 
BNR on account of withdrawals made under a Subloan or a Grant to meet the reasonable 
costs of goods, works and services required for a Subproject to be financed under Part 
G of the Project and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is 
requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A 
through F of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
Page  5
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2011 and ending December 15, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2020 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. BNR is, with respect to Part G.1 of the Project, designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
Page  6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A through F and Part G.2 of the Project through MINAGRI with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, environmental, technical 
and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause BNR to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of BNR 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provisions of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable BNR to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts A through F and Part G.2 of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category 
(2) in the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement available to BNR under a subsidiary 
financing loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BNR, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association including the 
retention from the said proceeds by BNR of an administration fee which shall be 
specified in the Subsidiary Financing Loan Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise it rights under the Subsidiary Financing Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Financing Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part G.1 of the 
Project shall be carried out by BNR pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (i) open and maintain a Project Account at BNR 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; (ii) promptly thereafter make 
an initial deposit into the Project Account in an amount equivalent to $50,000 to 
finance the Borrower’s initial contributions to the costs of the Project; (iii) make 
the following deposits into the Project Account: (A) an amount equivalent to $200,000 
no later than six months after the beginning of the first Project Year, and (B) an 
Page  7
amount equivalent to $250,000 no later than one month after the beginning of the 
second, third and fourth Project Years; and (iv) use the funds deposited in the 
Project Account exclusively for purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A through F and Part G.2 of 
the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying 
out Parts A through F and Part G.2 of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for Parts A 
through F and Part G.2 of the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
eighteen months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, 
each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
Page  8
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
BNR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that BNR will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(c)
BNR’s Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially the ability of BNR to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement; and
(d)
the Borrower and any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BNR or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
Page  9
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and deposited therein the 
initial amount referred to in Section 3.05 (ii) of this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower has: (i) established the PSCU in a form and with functions 
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) assigned to the PSCU adequate staff with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in a form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association;
(d)
the Borrower has appointed a Project auditor satisfactory to the 
Association;
(e)
the Borrower has established a financial management system for the 
Project in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(f)
the Borrower has  prepared and furnished to the Association a procurement 
plan for the first Project Year in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
and
(g)
the Subsidiary Financing Loan Agreement has been executed by the Borrower 
and BNR.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by BNR, and is 
legally binding upon BNR in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
the Subsidiary Financing Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and BNR and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BNR in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P. O. Box 158
Kigali
Republic of Rwanda
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN-RWANDA
22687
MINFIN-RAW
For the Association:
International Development Association
Page  10
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
By /s/ Richard Sezibera
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants
  12,120,000
100% of amounts
disbursed
(2)
Subloans
   5,620,000
100% of amounts
disbursed
(3)
Civil Works
   9,730,000
95%
(4)
Goods
     310,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
95% of local
expenditures
(5)
Consultants’
   4,510,000
100%
services, training
and audits
Page  11
(6)
Operating Costs
     740,000
85%
(7)
Refunding of
     430,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (b) 
Advance
of this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
   3,740,000
TOTAL
  37,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office 
supplies, office space rental and utilities, Special Account banking charges, 
communications, vehicle operation, maintenance and insurance, travel and supervision 
costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
a Subloan unless the Subloan has been made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement;
(b)
a Grant unless the Grant has been made in accordance with eligibility 
criteria and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Project 
Implementation Manual and Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each; (ii) civil works under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent each; (iii) consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $50,000 
equivalent each; (iv) individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $25,000 
equivalent each; and (v) Operating Costs and training, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars in its Central Bank, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment two special deposit accounts, namely: (i) 
Special Account A for Parts A through F and Part G.2 of the Project; and (ii) Special 
Account B for Part G.1 of the Project. Except as the Association may otherwise specify 
by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited 
by the Association into the respective Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule. Payments out of each Special Account shall be made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of a 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, after the Association has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the said Special 
Page  12
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the said Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: 
(i) the amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the Association has determined, 
based on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to 
be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the said Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000 in respect of Special Account A 
and $4,000,000 in respect of Special Account B. Each such deposit into the said 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of a 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the said Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
a Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Page  13
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) in respect of Special Account 
A, an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000, until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed 
the equivalent of SDR 2,500,000; and (ii) in respect of Special Account B, an amount 
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000, until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit  Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in 
respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed the equivalent 
of SDR 2,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
said Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
said Authorized Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the said 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association requests for deposit into the said Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such 
request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the said Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the said Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account under one or more of the said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  14
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the said Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on 
the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining 
in the said Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000 in respect 
of Special Account A and $4,000,000 in respect of Special Account B.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in revitalizing its 
rural economy through: (i) the promotion of investments in the agricultural sector; 
(ii) the equipping of farmers and other private sector groups, and relevant Borrower 
institutions with basic institutional and technical capacities; (iii) the improvement 
and raising of productivity in the agricultural services delivery system; (iv) 
small-scale rural infrastructure development and maintenance; (v) the rehabilitation 
of marshland and hill-side farming; (vi) the promotion of commercial and export 
agriculture; and (vii) the diversification of economic activities in the off-farm 
sector of the rural areas.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rehabilitation of Farmed Marshland and Hill-side Areas
The management by farmers of marshland and hill-side crops through: (i) the 
adoption by the farmers of efficient and sustainable technologies and practices; (ii) 
the rehabilitation and development by private operators of infrastructure on farmed 
marshland; (iii) the construction of small–scale drainage and irrigation 
infrastructure on farmed marshlands; (iv) the rehabilitation and development of soil 
and natural resources conservation and construction of infrastructure on about 4,000 
to 6,000 hectares of marshlands and hill-sides; (v) the provision of technical 
advisory services on cropping and water management technologies; (vi) the training of 
farmer groups and other private sector operators in construction, management, and 
maintenance of land and water conservation infrastructure; and (vii) the provision of 
institutional support to producer organizations and community groups.
Part B:
Promotion of Commercial and Export Agriculture
Reinvigorating the tea and coffee sectors and fostering growth in emerging 
export sub-sectors through: (i) the provision of technical advisory services to 
farmers and other private sector operators on production and post harvest 
technologies; (ii) the provision of financing for research and development and 
agricultural production, post harvest and marketing infrastructure; (iii) the 
provision of technical advisory services and matching grants to strengthen the 
capacities of farmer organizations; (iv) the provision of financial and other 
resources for the establishment of farmer-owned commercial enterprises and technical 
support entities; and (v) facilitation of access to financing of productive 
Page  15
technologies.
Part C:
Support to the Agricultural Services Delivery Systems
Strengthening agricultural research through: (i) the provision of financial 
resources and technical advisory services to strengthen the capacities of private and 
restructured public research and development institutions to adapt, and disseminate 
improved farming, conservation, and post-harvest technologies; (ii) the provision of 
training for farmer organizations on the techniques of participatory research and 
extension services delivery; and (iii) the provision of technical advisory services to 
private operators willing to invest in services delivery activities.
Part D:
Small-Scale Rural Infrastructure Development
Upgrading and expanding of small-scale transport infrastructure in the rural 
areas, and facilitating access to adapted post-harvest and marketing infrastructure 
and appropriate means of rural transport, through: (i) the provision of institutional 
and financial assistance to support the local communities to plan and supervise the 
development of such infrastructure and carry out the maintenance thereof; (ii) the 
provision of technical advisory services to private operators investing in 
conservation, post-harvest, and transport infrastructure as well as the construction 
and maintenance of such infrastructure; and (iii) the development for farmer groups of 
post-harvest, marketing and water management infrastructure for agricultural 
production.
Part E:
Promotion of Off-farm Productive Activities in Rural Areas
Revitalization of the rural economy and reduction of poverty in the rural areas 
and the rest of the Borrower’s territory, through (i) the promotion of off-farm 
productive activities in the rural areas; (ii) preparation and piloting of local 
off-farm development strategies; (iii) the carrying out of research and development 
relating to selected off-farm production activities; (iv) the provision of training in 
enterprise development and management; and (iv) the provision of seed-funding and 
facilitation of access to investment credit for such activities.
Part F:
Program Support and Coordination
The provision of support for the carrying out of Program activities, through: 
(i) the establishment of a Project Support and Coordination Unit, including a 
Monitoring and Evaluation Division; (ii) the design and carrying out of a mechanism 
for: (A) the effective coordination of Program activities both centrally and at the 
level of individual executing agencies and Beneficiaries, and (B) the effective 
monitoring and evaluation of Program activities; (iii) the conducting of the rural 
sector survey and regular updating of the baseline data; and (iv) the carrying out of 
impact studies at local and community levels.
Part G:
Funding Facilities
1.
The establishment and management by BNR of a Rural Investment Facility to 
provide Subloans to qualified private sector operators (including farmer groups) 
willing to invest in activities, including: (i) the operation of farmer-owned 
commercial and technical support entities; (ii) the processing, conservation, and 
trading of crop, livestock, and forestry products; (iii) transport infrastructure 
construction and maintenance activities; (iv) the acquisition by farmers of 
appropriate means of rural transport; (v) investment by private operators in the 
construction and/or maintenance of production, post-harvest, marketing and transport 
infrastructure; (vi) investment by private operators in agricultural services delivery 
activities; and (vii) selected pilot off-farm productive activities.
2.
The establishment and management by the Borrower of:
(i)
a Local Infrastructure Facility to provide matching grants to 
local administrations and other Beneficiaries for: (A) soil and 
water resources conservation infrastructure on marshlands and 
hill-sides; (B) transport infrastructure development and 
maintenance activities; and (C) construction of post-harvest and 
Page  16
other marketing and export cost reducing infrastructure; and
(ii)
a Rural Technology Facility to provide matching grants for 
activities to establish and support participatory agricultural 
services delivery systems, including: (A) the strengthening of the 
institutional, commercial, and technical capacities of farmer 
groups; (B) the strengthening of the capacities of agricultural 
research and extension systems to generate and extend improved 
technologies to farmers and enhance the delivery of services to 
Beneficiaries; and (C) the support to private operators to invest 
in the generation and dissemination of agricultural technologies.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for: (i) works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each; and (ii) goods shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than: (i) $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $12,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Page  17
Guidelines; and (ii) $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $3,000,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with simplified bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association and consistent with 
the Project Implementation Manual.
(b)
Contracts for furniture, equipment, vehicles and computers estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Office equipment and vehicles, may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Goods and works  for Subprojects to be financed through the Local Infrastructure 
Facility and the Rural Technology Facility  shall be procured in accordance with 
paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and as specified in the Project Implementation 
Manual.
5.
Commercial Practices
Items for the carrying out of Subprojects to be financed through the Rural 
Investment Facility by private sector operators may be procured in accordance with 
established commercial practices satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i)  the first five contracts for civil works to be 
carried out  in five different districts (irrespective of cost); (ii)  the first five 
contracts for civil works to be financed through the Local Infrastructure Facility  
and to be carried out  in five different districts (irrespective of cost) ; and (iii) 
each contract for civil works estimated to cost $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to : (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (ii) the first three contracts for goods regardless 
of cost, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Appendix 1 of the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  18
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
for architectural, technical design and civil work supervision shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for the training of local administrations and Community-Based Groups 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for technical and financial audits estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical studies and training estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultants Guidelines.
4.
Individuals Consultants 
Services for: (i) the carrying out of technical studies for local 
administrations and assistance to local administrations for procurement activities 
concerning small civil works; and (ii) tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  19
5.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
All terms of reference (other than those provided in the Project 
Implementation Manual); and all single source selection contracts shall be furnished 
to the Association for its prior approval. The contract in question shall be awarded 
only after the Association has given its prior approval to the said terms of reference 
and the said contracts.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Project 
Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association setting 
out details of all procedures, guidelines, processes, timetables and criteria for the 
Project, including: (i) criteria for Subloans and Grants; and (ii) a requirement that 
a lease be granted to a Beneficiary for a period sufficiently long to enable that 
Beneficiary to carry out the specific Subproject under Part A of the Project, as 
specified in the Project Implementation Manual.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not 
amend or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Manual if, in the opinion 
of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
Page  20
carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, annually, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, within two months of the submission of the 
report, or such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
3.
No later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall 
carry out, jointly with the Association and BNR a midterm review (the Midterm Review) 
of the progress made in carrying out the Project. The Midterm Review shall cover among 
other things:
(a)
an assessment of (A) work programs prepared as of the date of the Midterm 
Review and the progress made in carrying out the said programs, (B) training provided 
under the Project, (C) procurement under the Project, (D) the extent to which actions 
described in the indicators set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been carried 
out, and (E) plans made or proposed for updating said indicators; and
(b)
a review of the state of any works carried out under the Project.
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a Project Advisory 
Committee in a form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the 
Association. PAC’s functions shall include the oversight and orientation of Program 
activities. The membership of PAC shall comprise: (i) the Minister responsible for 
Agriculture, Animal Resources, and Forestry as Chairman; (ii) representatives of the 
Ministries responsible for Finance; Planning; Local Administration; Land; Environment; 
Public Works; Commerce; and Industries; (iii) representatives of farmer organizations; 
and (iv) other private agribusiness sector representatives. The Coordinator of PSCU 
shall serve as the Secretary of PAC.
(b)
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain PSCU in a form and 
with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association. PSCU’s 
functions shall include responsibility for: (i) the coordination of the preparation 
and implementation of all components of the Project; (ii) the consolidation of annual 
work programs and budgets; (iii) the establishment of a decentralized monitoring and 
evaluation system, including the establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation 
Division; (iv) financial and administrative management of Project activities; (v) 
procurement activities under the Project with the exception of: (A) activities 
undertaken under the community-based components of the Project; and (B) activities 
financed through the Rural Investment Facility which are to be carried out by the 
Beneficiary Groups in accordance with commercial practices; (vi) the rehabilitation 
and development of farmed marshland and hill-side areas; (vii) the preparation and 
updating of the Project’s Procurement Plan; (viii) the preparation of bidding 
documents; (ix) participation in bid evaluations; and (x) the monitoring and 
management of the execution of the respective contracts.
5.
(a)
The functions of the local administrations shall include their 
participation in: (i) procurement under the Project for community-based Subprojects; 
(ii) selection of Subprojects in accordance with the Subproject appraisal requirements 
and the approval process defined in the Project Implementation Manual; and (iii) the 
Page  21
monitoring and management of the execution of the contracts falling within their 
respective areas of responsibility, as prescribed in the Project Implementation 
Manual.
(b)
NTB shall be responsible for: (i) the publication of Specific Procurement 
Notices; and (ii) reviews of bidding documents, bids opening, evaluation, and the 
recommendation of the award of contracts falling within its area of responsibility, as 
prescribed in the Project Implementation Manual.
(c)
The Borrower shall: (i) appoint and assign to PSCU a Procurement Officer 
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association; (ii) prepare and 
carry out a procurement training program satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) 
prepare and furnish to the Association an annual procurement plan for the first 
Project Year no later than June 30, 2001.
6.
(a)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part G.2 of the Project, make the 
proceeds of the Credit available to a  Beneficiary, on a grant basis for Subprojects, 
under an agreement, satisfactory to the Association, to be entered into between the 
Ministry responsible for Agriculture, acting on behalf of the Borrower, and the 
Beneficiary.
(b)
The Grant Agreement shall provide for rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Association and the Borrower, including to the extent that it shall 
be appropriate the right to require the Beneficiary to:
(i)
carry out the Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental, 
technical and managerial standards; 
(ii)
maintain adequate records for the Subproject concerned;
(iii)
procure all goods, works and services required for a Subproject in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(iv)
use the goods, works and services so procured exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Subproject; and
(v)
permit the Borrower to inspect, by itself or jointly with 
representatives of the Association if the Association shall so 
request, any goods, works, plants and construction included in the 
Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of the preceding 
subparagraphs of this paragraph, a Grant Agreement shall: (i)  specify the 
contribution to be made by a Beneficiary carrying out a Subproject to the total costs 
of the Subproject; and (ii)  provide for the right of the Borrower to suspend or 
terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Grant upon 
the failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the Grant 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5
Performance Indicators
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following:
A.
Sectors Indicators
1.
The average household incomes among Beneficiaries are 20% higher than the 
baseline by the end of the Project.
2.
The proportion of population under the poverty line among Beneficiary farmers is 
15% lower than the baseline by the end of the Project.
B.
End of Project Indicators
Page  22
1.
The average crop yields per hectare among Beneficiary farmers are 50% higher 
than the baseline by the end of the Project.
2.
The average returns per labor unit among Beneficiary farmers is 50% higher than 
the baseline by the end of the Project.
C.
Outcome/Impact Indicators
1.
The marshland/hill-side and export crop farmers have adopted new and improved 
cropping technologies, including integrated pest management.
2.
The quantities of fertilizers used per capita and per hectare among Beneficiary 
farmers are 50% higher than the baseline.
3.
The quantities and shares of marketed  crop output per household among 
beneficiary farmers are 50% higher than the baseline.
D.
Output Indicators
1.
(a)
At least 1000 Farmer Organizations (FASDOs) have been trained in the 
management of marshland and hill-side crops.
(b)
The total area of rehabilitated farmed marshlands and hill-sides have 
reached 4,000 and 2,000 hectares respectively.
2.
(a)
At least 12 farmer-owned commercial enterprises and technical entities 
(CETSEs) have been set up.
(b)
The established CETSEs operate satisfactorily.
(c)
The unit costs per hectare of export crops among Beneficiary farmers are 
10% lower than the baseline.
(d)
The total output of export crops among Beneficiary farmers is 25% higher 
than the baseline.
(e)
The quantities of tea and coffee exports have increased by at least 50%.
(f)
Export alternative crops have increased by at least 100%.
3.
(a)
The lead research and extension institutions have been restructured and 
strengthened.
(b)
At least 500 FASDOs have been trained to participate in services 
delivery.
(c)
At least 80 private agricultural services organizations (PASDOs) have 
been trained to participate in services delivery.
(d)
At least 80% of FASDO members have adopted improved farming practices, 
including integrated pest management practices.
4.          (a)
At least 100 local community organizations have been trained in 
the maintenance and management of local transport infrastructure.
(b)
At least 50 private sector operators have been trained in the 
construction and maintenance of post-harvest and transport infrastructure and 
equipment.
(c)
Alternative appropriate means of rural transport have been introduced and 
disseminated.
5.
Off-farm sector strategies and development plans have been prepared in 5 
prefectures by the local administrations.
6.    (a)
Baseline rural sector survey carried out by the end of the first Project 
Year.
(b)
Baseline indicator data base available by the end of the first Project 
Year.
(c)
A Program Monitoring Guide and Impact Evaluation Guide available by the 
Page  23
middle of the first Project Year.
(d)
An adequate level of the quality of monitoring and evaluation activities 
are achieve by the end of the first Project Year.
(e)
Timeliness and quality of Project and financial management reporting are 
maintained throughout Project life.
(f)
Effectiveness is achieved in the coordination of the activities of 
various Project executing agencies and Beneficiary communities.
