                                                                                                                   93829
                                                                                                               July 19, 2012
Results Profile: Rwanda




  Rwanda: Achieving Food Security, Reducing Poverty, Moving up the
  Value Chain


Overview
Agriculture is the backbone of the Rwandan economy – between 2006 and 2010 it accounted
for 35 percent of GDP; 45 percent of export earnings and, according to the latest household
survey of 2010/11, for 73 percent of employment. Constraints caused by population density,
hilly terrain and erosion make it a critical determinant of rural poverty. Since 2001 Rwanda has
worked closely with IDA to achieve food security and increase agricultural productivity - food
security was attained in 2010 and between 2000/01 and 2010/11 poverty was reduced by
about 14 percent.




Challenge
Rwanda has made remarkable progress since the civil war
                                                                            More Results
and genocide that started in October 1990 and ended in July
1994. It has moved from an estimated poverty rate of 77.8

                                                                            11.8
percent and GDP per capita of US$ 232 in 1995 to a
reported poverty rate of 44.9 percent and a GDP per capita
of US$540 in 2012 .
                                                                            Percent poverty reduction
Rwanda has averaged per capita growth of around 8 percent                   between 2005 and 2011, in part
for the last decade but, given the rate of population increase              attributed to improved
                                                                            agricultural production
of 2.7 percent this growth rate would need to be accelerated
further to achieve sustained poverty reduction and in order to
meet Rwanda’s ambitions to achieve lower middle-income

                                                                            46
status by the end of the decade. Currently, growth remains
driven by agriculture and public investments (about 40
percent of Government expenditures are financed by donor
grants) with diversification of the economy and growth of the               Percent increase in agricultural
                                                                            exports
private sector being constrained by: (i) low energy access
rates (still at around 10 percent in 2012) and highest cost
(still at around $.22 per kwh in 2012) in the region; and (ii)
high transportation costs compared to regional averages -                   MORE INFORMATION
costs from the main ports of Mombasa and Dar es Salaam                       Country Website
are estimated to be at least 70 percent higher than that in
                                                                             Country Brief
the rest of the EAC region and account for about 40 percent
of the cost of imported goods and 50 percent of exported                     Country Assistance Strategy
goods .                                                                      Data and Statistics

                                                                             Ministry of Agriculture and
Preliminary poverty data based on findings reported by the: National
                                                                             Animal Resources in Rwanda
Institute of Statistics: The Third Integrated Household Living Conditions
Survey (EICV3) - Main Indicator Report (2012).                               Rural Sector Support Project
World Bank: Diagnostic Trade Integration Study (2005).                  Land Husbandry, Watershed
                                                                        Management, and Hillside
Approach                                                                Irrigation Project
The Bank’s analytic work, that also helped inform the
                                                                        Rwanda Economic Update
development of Rwanda’s medium term 2008-2013                           Seeds for Higher Growth. First
Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy                     Edition, April 2011
(EDPRS), concluded clearly that increasing agricultural
                                                                        USAID
productivity and commercializing production would be critical
to achieving Rwanda’s vision for structural transformation              CIDA
from subsistence agriculture to a middle income economy .               JICA
The Bank accordingly embarked on a program of investment
lending support first using a three phased Adaptable
Program Loan, the Rural Sector Support Project (RSSP) that
since 2001 has focused on intensifying production in the marshlands followed by the Land
Husbandry, Water Harvesting and Hillside Irrigation (LWH) Project that started in 2010 and
focuses on developing horticulture production on the hillsides. This 10 year long program has
enabled the Government to make significant progress on its agricultural intensification program
through investments in infrastructure for irrigation and erosion control and the provision of
quality inputs and capacity building to all the stakeholders in various agricultural value chains.
These programs have also incorporated a number of innovations such as the farmer based
extension model that has led to increased rice productivity and a comprehensive land
husbandry package that has enabled effective erosion control and soil fertility restoration at the
landscape level.
Finally, starting in 2008 an annual development policy operation , (the Poverty Reduction
Support Financing) has underpinned critical policy reforms in the agriculture sector including: (i)
improving planning and predictability of funding for the agricultural sector to allow for more
effective spending on input distribution, irrigation, water and soil management; (ii) promoting
the emergence of a private sector procurement and distribution system for agricultural inputs,
especially fertilizer; and (iii) capacity building of private sector agro-dealers.

World Bank: Country Economic Memorandum (2007): Towards Sustained Growth and Competitiveness (Vol 1
and 2) Report No. 37860-RW

Results
Since the beginning of RSSP1 in 2001:

       Over 6,000 hectares of marshlands have been rehabilitated or developed;

       Nearly 10,000 hectares of hillsides have been sustainably developed;

       Average crop yields on the developed marshlands and hillsides have increased by over
       100 percent relative to the baseline at the beginning of RSSP1 i.e. maize yields have
       improved from 1.6 tons/ha to nearly 5 tons/ha; rice yields have improved from 3 tons/ha
       to 6.30 tons/ha; and potato yields have improved from 17 tons/ha to nearly 20 tons/ha;

       Crop derived incomes have increased from a baseline of RWF 73,000 to over RWF
       156,000 per farm household;

       Over 51,000 people, of which 42 percent are female have benefited from the RSSP 1
       and 2 while 6,748 people, of which about 54 percent are female have benefited from the
       LWH so far;

       Preliminary results presented by the Government of Rwanda on the most recent
       household survey indicate that the reported poverty reduction of 11.8 percent between
       2005/06 and 2010/11 is likely to be attributed in part to improved agriculture production,
       increased number of agro businesses and increased farm wage employment;

       Between 2008 and 2011 agricultural exports (other than coffee and tea) increased on
       average by 46 percent annually; and

       Since 2010, Rwanda has maintained a positive food balance sheet and only imports
       those products that are not produced locally or that are consumed by the higher end of
       the market.


Bank Contribution
As of March 16 2012, the IDA lending portfolio in Rwanda consists of 9 active projects with
total commitments of US$292.3 million in the key sectors of agriculture, energy, transport, skills
development, demobilization and reintegration and private sector development. In addition,
Rwanda is benefiting from two large Trust Funds, to the tune of US$88 million, which are
directly linked to active IDA operations in transport and agriculture . Rwanda also participates in
five regional projects totaling some US$69 million in the areas of trade and transport
facilitation, regional communications infrastructure, public health laboratories, Lake Victoria
environment management and financial sector development and regionalization.
Annually, IDA disburses about US$100 million as general budget in support of Rwanda’s
poverty reduction strategy. The Bank also undertakes a number of analytic pieces and just-in-
time policy notes in each year.
Current IDA investments in agriculture include RSSP 2 (US$ 35 million), RSSP 3 (US$80
million) and LWH (US$34 million).

Africa Catalytic Growth Fund and Global Agriculture and Food Security Program

Partners
The Government has established a number of formal aid coordination mechanisms including
sixteen Sector Working Groups (SWGs). Each mechanism is chaired by the Government and
co-chaired by a Development Partner. The Bank currently co-chairs the energy, public financial
management and agriculture SWGs.
SWGs provide a forum for dialogue, ownership and accountability of the development agenda
by all stakeholders at the sector level. They build synergies in policy formulation,
implementation and undertake biannual joint sector reviews. The agriculture SWG is particularly
effective with the active and engaged participation from key development partners such as the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID), the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and the World
Food Program. The private sector, civil society and farmers’ organizations are also very
engaged.
A particular strategy that the Bank has adopted in Rwanda is to leverage IDA funding to crowd
in funding from other sources. In agriculture this has involved leveraging both public and private
sector financing. In the public sector an IDA Credit of only US$ 34 million to the LWH Program
has leveraged financing from GAFSP of US$ 50 million; from USAID of US$ 14 million and
from CIDA of CAD 8 million bringing donor contribution to the program to over US$ 106 million.
The World Bank was also instrumental in putting a Common Framework of Engagement (CFE)
for LWH financiers into place. The CFE facilitates engagement with potential new financiers for
the LWH program. On the private sector front, the World Bank Group supported a high-level
agriculture investor forum in November 2010 focusing on the horticulture (fruits and vegetables)
and tea sub-sectors. The forum attracted over 100 international investors and the task force
(joint Government and WBG) formed to follow up on potential deals continues to work on the
23 potential deals that were an outcome of the forum.


Toward the Future
In the short to medium term agriculture remains the best possibility of: continuing to reduce
poverty; weathering the impact of the global economic crisis; maintaining macro-economic
stability; reducing job unemployment; and increasing export earnings. As such the Bank will
continue to support the sector to address some of the key impediments to increased
agricultural productivity including: a poor feeder roads network; lack of information on
investment potential; prohibitive air freight costs; inadequately developed frameworks for quality
certification; and a lack of post harvest handling and storage facilities.
Beneficiaries
“In the past, I cultivated and harvested very little, I could not even save for the market. But
after constructing terraces, I had a good harvest and a surplus for the market. I had an
uncompleted house but now, I have been able to buy cement from the sales of my potato
harvest and we are about to complete the house” Colette Nyiraneza - a farmer.
“The production of Irish potatoes has increased from 10.5 tons in 7 hectares to 42 tons in 13
hectares. Cooperative members attribute this boost in production to RSSPs support….When we
look back at the traditional farming methods we used, we consider this as a great success”
Zigama Francois, farmer and President COAVIDEP Cooperative.
“My family is happy now that I am a successful famer. I can easily feed them and send my
children to school.” Edward Rwego, member COAVIDEP Cooperative.
