Document of
The World Bank                      S 4    - f£>\
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4007-ME
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
April 19, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso
Since December 20, 1982, Mexico has the following exchange rates:
(i) a sliding controlled rate for priority imports, most exports and serv-
ice payments on foreign debt; this was set at 95.0 pesos per dollar on
December 20 and was about 104.0 on March 15, 1983; and (ii) a free exchange
rate for all other transactions; in recent days the free peso has been
trading around 150 per dollar.
MEASURES
1 mm      =  milimeter       =   0.04 inches
1 cm      =  centimeter    =   0.39 inches
1 m       =  meter           =   3.28 feet
1 km      =  kilometer       =   0.62 miles
1 1       =  liter           =   0.26 US gallons
1 m3      =  cubic meter   =   264 US gallons
1 m3/sec  =  cubic meter   =   22.82 MGD =
per second         million US gallons per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BC Companies    =   Beneficiary Cities Water Supply and
Sewerage Companies
BANOBRAS         =   National Bank for Public Works (Banco
Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos S.A.)
CEAPAS           =   Sinaloa  Water  Board  (Comision  Estatal  de
Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Sinaloa)
DIGESAPA         =   General  Directorate  for  Water  Supply  and
Sewerage Systems for Urban Areas (Direccion
General de Sistemas de Agua Potable y
Alcantarillado)
FIFAPA           =   Investment   Fund   for  Water   Supply  and
Sewerage  Works  -  (Fondo  de  Inversiones
Financieras    para    Agua    Potable    y
Alcantarillado)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- ii -
ICB             =   International Competitive Bidding
IRR                 Incremental Rate of Return
SAHOP               Secretariat of luman Settlements and Public
Works (Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos
y Obras Publicos)
SEDUE=   Secretariat of Human Settlements and Ecology
(Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia)
SHCP                Secretariat of Finances
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)
SPP                 Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
(Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto)
UNDP                United Nations Development Programme
VAT                 Value Added Tax
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- iii -
MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
II.    THE SECTOR . . . . . S     . R  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
Population . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
Water Resources. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
Health Situation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             2
Sector Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            2
Sector Organization. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            2
Service Levels and Quality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            3
Manpower Aspects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            4
Past Sector Investments ..                                          4
Review of Previous Bank Loans. . . . . . . . . . . . . .            4
Future Bank Role in the Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . .            5
III.   THE BORROWER AND EXECUTING AGENCY. . . . . . . . . . . .             5
The Borrower (BANOBRAS). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            5
FIFAPA Trust Fund. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            6
The Executing Agency (SEDUE) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            7
IV.    THE BENEFICIARIES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             8
General. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            8
The BC Companies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            8
CEAPAS   .    .    .  .  .    .    .  .    .  .    .    .    .    .  .  .    .  .  .    .    .  .    .  .    .  9
Regional Companies.                                                 9
Accounting .10
Accounts Receivable. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Audit.    .    .  .    .  .  .   .    .  .   .  .    .  .    .  .  .    .  .    .   .  .  .    .  .    .  10
Tariffs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
V.     THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mexico from March 9 to 28, 1982. The mission was composed of Messrs. L.
Pereira, FNA; J. Culagovski, Economist; Ms. Lea Yacub, EGR; and Mr. L. F.
Correa, CONS and a post-appraisal mission from February 13 to 25, composed
by Mr. Rene Costa, Division Chief, Ms. Lea Yacub, EGR; and Mr. Jorge
Infante, CONS.



- iv -
Page No.
Descriptio n .  .   . .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
Priority and Selection Criteria. . . . . . . . .          .14
Technological Alternatives and Service Standards . . . .    15
Status of Project Preparation. . . . . . .   .                 15
Cost Estimates . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .  .. . .           15
Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Supervision . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Procurement....    .          .      . .4  . . . . . . . .     18
Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,.              18
Environmental Aspects. . . . .  . .   . . . . . . .            19
VI.    FINANCIAL ASPECTS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .       .      20
BANOBRAS-Financlal Performance . .    . . . . . . .   .        20
Subborrowers' Financial Performance. . . .  . . .       . .    20
Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . .   . .    22
Revenues   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
Subloan Agreement. . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .       o      23
Future Ffnances of Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
Reporting Requirements . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .    25
VII.   ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS . . . . . . . . . . .              25
Introduction . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . .           .    25
Least-Cost Solution. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
Population Benefitted and Urban Poverty Impact   . .  . .    26
Return on Investment and Marginal Costs. . . . .        . .    26
Project Sensitivity and Risks. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
IX.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . .    29
List of Tables
5.1  Project Cost. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
5.2  Categories of Disbursement. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
6.1 Project Financing Plan 1983-88. . . . . . . . . . . .    22
7.1  Incremental Rate of Return. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
List of Annexes
1. Mexico Population Distributed by State. . . . . . . . . . .    32
2. Water and Sewerage Service Levels in Mexico . . . . . . . .    34
3. Organization Chart. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
4. State Water and Sewerage Board (CEAPAS) . . . . . . ..            36
5. Institutional Overview of Regional Companies. . . . . . . .    40
6. Main Characteristics of Water and Sewerage Services
in Appraised Cities (1981). . . . . . . . . . . . .41



-v -
Page No.
7. Population and Demand Projections . . . . . . . . . . . . .   42
8. Suggested Terms of Reference for the Institutional
Development Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
9. Detailed Cost Table - Sinaloa State Water Company  . . .       49
10. Detailed Cost Table - Medium-Size Cities.  . . . . . . . . .   54
11. Project Cost Summary.. . . .            ....   . . .           59
12. Suggested Outline of Terms of Reference for the Health
Education Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   62
13. Construction Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   65
14. Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements .  . . . .  . . . .    66
15. Consolidated Balance Sheet as of Dececember 31, 1981. . . .   67
16. Appraised Medium-Size Cities Financial Statement as of
December 31, 1982 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   73
17. Appraised CEAPAS Cities Financial Statement as of
December 31, 1982 . . .      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   74
18. Monitoring Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . .   75
19. Summary of Assumptions Used in Financial Projections for
Medium-Size Cities and CEAPAS Regional Companies. . . .       76
20. Financial Plan (1983-1989) .  . .   . . .  . . . . . . . . .   78
21. Selected Financial Data - Medium-Size Cities . . . . . . .     79
22. Selected Financial Data-Cities in the State of Sinaloa. . .   80
23. Subsidiary Sub-Loan Agreement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   81
24. Incremental Population Served 1983-87-Cities under the
Jurisdiction of the State Water Company . . .  . . . . .     85
25. Incremental Population Served 1982-86-Medium-Size Cities. .   86
26. Other Projects in Mexico with Bank Financing. . . . . . . .   87
MAPS
IBRD - No. 16392
IBRD - No. 16393






MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01       The Government of Mexico has requested the continuation of Bank
financial assistance for the expansion and improvement of water supply and
sewerage systems in a number of medium-size cities.  The project was pre-
pared by the new Secretariat of Human Settlements and Ecology (SEDUE) with
Bank assistance.  The total cost of the project is estimated at US$193 mil-
lion equivalent; a Bank Loan of US$100.3 million is recommended to finance
the foreign exchange component and front-end fee. The Borrower will be the
National Bank for Public Works (BANOBRAS), and the Executing Agency will be
SEDUE.   As in the two previous Bank-financed  operations with BANOBRAS,
beneficiaries will be autonomous state- or municipality-owned water supply
and sewerage companies. A special feature of the proposed project would be
a pilot program for the State Water Board of the State of Sinaloa
(CEAPAS).  Bank and Government funds will be onlent to beneficiary cities
through the FIFAPA trust fund administered by BANOBRAS.  The works to be
financed are scheduled for construction during 1984-89.
II. THE SECTOR
Population
2.01       The 1980 population of Mexicol/ was 67.4 million (Annex 1), of
which 44.6 million or 66.2% lived in urban centers and 22.8 million in
rural areas. Population growth has declined from 3.5% p.a. in the 1960s to
2.6% p.a. at present.  This decrease has been the result of an aggressive
family planning program launched by the government in 1972 with the ambi-
tious goal of reducing population growth to 1% p.a. by the year 2000.
2.02        The problems that rapid population growth has created for the
provision of public services are compounded by uneven geographic distribu-
tion.  Twenty percent of the total population lives in the congested Mexico
City metropolitan area, and the other 80% is scattered among almost 100,000
localities.   The percentage of urban population is expected to increase
from 66% of total population in 1980 to about 80% in 2000.
Water Resources
2.03      Mexico has water resource limitations.  Rainfall ranges from 100
mm per year in dry areas to 5,000 mm in the tropical low lands. About 82%
of Mexico's surface water resources are found below 500 m of elevation, but
76% of the population is located and 80% of the industrial output is pro-
duced above this level.
1/ Preliminary information, 1980 census.



-2-
Health Situation
2.04        Reporting of national health statistics has improved in recent
years; reporting in rural areas remains less accurate than in urban zones
because of dispersion of the population, difficult communications, and lack
of health services.   The mortality rate for enteritis and other diarrheal
diseases in 1979 was 72.5 per 100,000 inhabitants,2/ compared with 119 per
100,000 in 1963.  Mortality rates from these diseases, however, was still
the second most common cause of death in 1981e  Of all waterborne and sani-
tation-associated diseases, enteric infections and diseases account for the
highest mortality rate in Mexico.   In contrast to tne declining mortality
rate, the combined morbidity rate for diarrhea, dysentery and salmonellosis
rose from 3,250 per 100,000 inhabitants in 1963 to 5,424 per 100,000 inha-
bitants in 1981.3/
Sector Objectives
2.05      The Government's sector objectives are:  (a) to reduce mortality
and morbidity from enteric and diarrheal diseases, a principal cause of
illness and death in tne country; (b) to accelerate infrastructure develop-
ment required for balanced urban development and to stimulate economic
growth in specific urban centers in order to direct urban population away
from the largest cities; (c) to substantially improve the social and health
conditions of the urban and rural poor; and (d) to reduce environmental de-
gradation through control of discharges into receiving waters.
2.06       The Government's specific water supply and sanitation obiectives
are to provide, by the year 2000, 95% of the urban and 70% of the rural po-
pulation with piped water, and 80% of the urban and 42% of the rural popu-
lation with sewerage or sanitation services.  The intermediate targets for
1990 are to provide potable water to an additional population of 27.8 mil-
lion in urban centers other than the Mexico City metropolitan area and to
3.8 million additional people in rural areas.   The estimated investment
program for the period 1983-90 necessary to achieve the Government's goals
would be US$3.4 billion in 1980 prices for urban areas and US$3.8 billion
for rural areas.   Sixty percent of urban and 70% of the rural investment
would be dedicated to rehabilitation works.  The proposed investment pro-
gram would more than double the past decade's annual investment in water
supply and sanitation services outside the Mexico City metropolitan area.
The Government's goals may have to be revised in accordance with the pre-
sent economic situation.
Sector Organization
National Level
2.07         During the previous administration,  the Secretariat of Human
Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP) was in charge of the planning, con-
struction. supervision, operation and maintenance of water and sewerage
systems in urban centers other than Mexico City and in rural areas.  In
2/   For selected countries in Latin America mortality rates in 1979 per
100,000 inhabitants were:  Peru 44.6; Venezuela 38.2; anjd Argentina 20.
3/ Health statistics are available in Project File.



December 1982, the new Administrative Law reorganized some Secretariats.
SAHOP was abolished and SEDUE was created.  The new Secretariat is now re-
sponsible for the planning and supervision of all water supply and sewerage
systems in the country, except for those in Mexico City.   Operation and
maintenance will continue to be the responsibility of autonomous state-or
municipality-owned  companies.    Reponsibility  for  construction  has  been
legally transferred to the states.  Because of the states' lack of experi-
ence, however, SEDUE will provide technical assistance to the beneficiaries
in discharging their new responsibilities. Since many states are not pre-
pared to assume the construction function at this time, SEDUE will continue
to  be  responsible  for  construction.    However,  SEDUE  may  assign  this
responsibility to the beneficiaries (para. 3.08).
State and Local Level
2.08      All the states have created state water and sewerage companies to
operate and maintain the systems transferred to them by SAHOP in November
1980.   The scope of  responsibilities  entrusted  to these new companies
ranges from those with state-wide responsibilities to those responsible for
a single system only.   Some local water supply and sewerage systems have
not yet been established as autonomous entities and continue to be operated
by the municipal departments in charge of these services.
Service Levels and Quality
2.09      Service levels for 1981 have been estimated on the basis of data
provided by SEDUE and by extrapolation of preliminary  1980 census data.
The percentage of total population with access to water supply systems has
increased from 49% in 1970 to 58% in 1981.  Sewerage service levels in-
creased during the same period from 37% to 38%.  An estimated 29.8 million
people (17 million in urban areas) remain without access to water supply
systems, while 43.3 million people (21 million in urban areas) lack access
to sewerage facilities (Annex 2).  Service levels in the Mexico City metro-
politan area are estimated at 91% for water and 80% for sewerage.
2.10       Water service coverage through house connections in urban areas
other than Mexico City has decreased from 65% in 1970 to 55% in 1981,4/
and sewerage service levels have decreased from 55% to about 43% over the
same period.   These decreases were offset by increases in access to water
services from 21% in 1970 to 51% in 1981 (44% through house connections and
the remainder by public standpipes) in rural areas. Rural sewerage service
levels increased during the same period from 4% to 13%.  These changes in
service levels stemmed from heavy investments made in rural areas and high
rates of migration from low-income rural areas to urban areas which infra-
structure was inadequate to accommodate the new arrivals.
2.11       Quality of service is deficient, and many systems are not oper-
ated and maintained properly.  In 1979, SAHOP carried out a pilot survey in
the state of Tlaxcala to assess the quality of existing services. The re-
sults indicated that: (a) only 16% of the urban systems met the national
water quality standards; (b) 51% of the urban systems had intermittent
4/ In 1978 service levels by house connections in selected Latin American
countries were:  Colombia: 61% water and 42% sewerage; Peru: 34% water and
34% sewerage.



- 4 -
service; and (c) 13% of the rural systems met the water quality standards.
SEDUE has estimated that 40% of- the urban systems and 70% of the rural sys-
tems need urgent rehabilitation.   The level of unaccounted-for water is
high (currently estimated between 30-50%). A program for metering and leak
detection is included in the proposed project and will benefit the benefi-
ciaries of FIFAPA l(para. 6.12).
Manpower Aspects
2.12      In 1981, about 60,000 people were working in the sector.  Manage-
ment of the local systems and operation and maintenance of services suffer
most from lack of funds and skilled staff.   Engineers are generally well
trained, but management and analysis of projects have been inadequate be-
cause of lack of qualified managerial, financial and economic staff.   To
improve this situation SAHOP initiated in 1976 an ambitious National Train-
ing Program. Since then about 4,000 participants received training through
53 courses given in different regions of the country.  SEDUE will continue
carrying out the National Training Program with particular emphasis to the
specific needs of each beneficiary (para. 8.01(1)(b)(i)). Another program
is in progress to train administrative and technical personnel of cities
under the FIFAPA scheme.   Loan 1186-ME includes US$200,000 to partially
finance its cost.  SEDUE will be responsible for its implementation.  The
proposed loan would further enhance training activities (paras. 5.03, 5.04
and 5.09).
Past Sector Investments
2.13       During 1974-80, annual investments in the sector totaled Mex$8
billion (US$320 million in 1980 prices).   Investments in rural areas in-
creased from 34% to 50% of total sector investments in 1977-80.  On aver-
age, Federal funds financed 50% of total sector investment.   These funds
were provided in the form of grants or loans.   Most loars were interest
free with repayment periods of 10-20 years.  In practice, however, most of
the loans were not repaid.
2.14      BANOBRAS is an exception to the grant pattern (para. 3.01).  Its
Trust Fund for Water Supply and Sewerage Works (FIFAPA, para. 3.03) is be-
ing supported by Loans 1186-ME and 1913-ME, and would receive financing
under the proposed project.  FIFAPA has financed so far 7.2% of total sec-
tor investments. Under the present financial difficulties the Government's
policy is to reduce net public outlays.  FIFAPA will be used to introduce
on a large scale the concept of cost recovery in water supply and sewerage
projects. Therefore, it is expected that FIFAPA share of sector financing
will be increased to about 80% during the forthcoming year.
Review of Previous Bank Loans
2.15       The Bank has been assisting Mexico with the implementation of
water supply and sewerage projects since 1973.  It helped finance:  (a) a
US$155 million bulk water supply project for the Mexico City metropolitan
area (Loan 909-ME, signed in June 1973, US$90 million); (b) a US$100 mil-
lion water supply and sewerage project for medium-size cities (Loan



- 5 -
1186-ME, signed in January 1976, US$40 million); and (c) a US$297 million
water supply and sewerage project for medium-size cities (Loan 1913-ME,
signed in November 1980, US$125 million).   The project under Loan 909-ME
has been completed; it encountered delays because of inadequate project
preparation and institutional problems, US$11.8 million of the Loan was
cancelled because of changes in project scope.  A PCR for this project was
issued on July 1982.  In addition, the Bank has participated in the financ-
ing of water supply and sewerage components under several other projects in
the tourism, urban and rural development sectors (Annex 26).
2.16       As of April 15, 1983, seventy four percent (US$29.6 million) of
Loan 1186-ME and sixteen percent (US$19.9 million) of Loan 1913-ME has been
disbursed, and all funds for both loans are fully committed.  Financial and
operating performance of beneficiary water and sewerage companies has been
largely satisfactory.   Tariff increases required for 1983 to comply with
loan covenants have already been approved in all but four of the benefi-
ciary cities under Loans 1186-ME and 1913-ME.   Taking into consideration
the present economic situation of the country and the high rate of infla-
tion, the early compliance with tariff increases in the majority of cities
is satisfactory and demonstrates the willingness of the beneficiary cities
to continue to increase tariffs that would give them financial self-
sufficiency.
Future Bank Role in the Sector
2.17      Bank's participation in the sector would continue to promote the
implementation of national financial policies and the establishment of
state organizations able to tackle urban basic needs.  This is expected to
be achieved through continous Bank support to the FIFAPA scheme which
should permit sector lending in the forthcoming years.  Technical assist-
ance to the executing agency, introduction of low-cost technologies and ac-
celeration of provision of basic services to the low-income population of
Mexico's largest urban areas would be the cornerstone of this strategy.
Growing emphasis would also be given to pollution control, solid waste dis-
posal and rural water supply and sanitation, as the objectives in medium-
size cities and State Water Companies are progressively achieved.   Sector
work in these areas is scheduled for FY85.
III. THE BORROWER AND THE EXECUTING AGENCY
The Borrower (BANOBRAS)
3.01      The Borrower will be BANOBRAS, the Borrower in the first and se-
cond Bank-financed water supply and sewerage project for medium-size cities
(Loans 1186-ME and 1913-ME).   BANOBRAS is a public development bank, and
a financial agent of the Federal Government.  It obtains its funds from the
Mexican Government and in the  international  market.   BANOBRAS operates
several trust funds, each corresponding to a specific investment program,
in sanitation, urban development, market places, state and municipal gov-
ernments and other agencies.   According to BANOBRAS' Organizational Law,



- 6 -
the Federal Government controls its policies and supervises its borrowing
and lending activities.  The Secretariat of Finances (SHCP) has veto power
over the resolutions of BANOBRAS' Board of Directors and approves BANOBRAS'
yearly budget.   BANOBRAS is authorized to carry out such other functions
related to its credit activities as may be approved by SHCP.  BANOBRAS is
legally empowered to act as a Bank Borrower.
3.02        BANOBRAS finances water and sewerage works through three dif-
ferent lending windows at different rates.  While its normal credits carry
interest rates of 6 to 15% less than the ACF (CpP)5/ BANOBRAS' soft-loan
window, the Municipal Development Fund (Fondo Fiduciario Federal de Fomento
Municipal) lends at 5% p.a. and FIFAPA (the water supply and sewerage fund)
lends at 15% p.a.   FIFAPA is partially funded by the Bank through Loans
1186-ME and 1913-ME and would serve as the channel for the proposed Loan.
FTFAPA Trust Fund
3.03      In 1975, the Mexican Government established FIFAPA as a revolving
investment fund, under BANOBRAS, to finance water and sewerage invest-
ments,   The Government has used  the  fund  to progressively  replace  the
Federal contribution to investments in cities with population over 50,000.
With the proposed project, FIFAPA will continue to finance projects in
medium-size cities (para. 4.01 (a)) but will also include cities under the
jurisdiction of CEAPAS with population over 5,000 (para. 4.Oi (b)).
3.04      For Loans 1186-ME and 1913-ME FIFAPA's equity capital was raised
to an amount equal to the sum of the Bank loans and Government counterpart
funds.   The Mexican Government considers that the US$600 million already
capitalized gives a good capital base to the Fund.  Accordingly, the Gov-
ernment has decided that additional capitalization of the Fund might be
limited to the Bank loan. If the general economic condition of the country
permits, the Government will continue capitalizing the counterpart funds.
Agreement was reached with the Government that FIFAPA's capital will be in-
creased at least in an amount equivalent to US$100 mill-on equal to the
Bank loan.   Compliance wiEth this requirement will be a condition of ef-
fectiveness of the proposed Loan (para. 8.02(a)).
3.05       FIFAPA will relend the proceeds of the Bank Loan and Government
counterpart funds to the BC Companies and to CEAPAS which, in turn, will
relend the funds to the Regional Companies under the same terms and condi-
tions of FIFAPA loans (para. 4.01).  Disbursements to contractors and sup-
pliers will be made by FIFAPA, after certification of payment has been
given by SEDUE.  FIFAPA will also be responsible for the timely collection
of debt service payments from the BC Companies and CEAPASa in order to re-
flect the Government investment policies for the sector which call for a
progressive improvement of the terms used in FIFAPA operations, FIFAPA's
onlending interest rates were increased from 15% to 25%.  The final matu-
rity of the loans would be 15 years after a grace period equal to the con-
struction period (3 to 4 years) (para. 6.12).
5/ ACF is the average cost of term funds for multipurpose banks over a
twelve-month period.



3.06       Although the 25% minimum rate is lower than the cost of capital
in Mexico, and negative at current rates of inflation,6/ a higher rate
would result in increased pressure from local authorities for interest-free
Federal Government funds.  Moreover, the new onlending rate would compare
well with the medium-term inflation rate of 20% estimated for 1986 on.
Efficiency in resource allocation would be ensured by the selection cri-
teria of subprojects financed under the proposed Loan (para. 5.10).  Sub-
loan agreements include revenue covenants stipulating that tariffs will
cover the full cost of services and will be based for all beneficiaries on
net fixed assets revalued at a rate equal to 100% of the price index pub-
lished by the Bank of Mexico (85% of the index was used in Loans 1186-ME
and 1913-ME) (para. 6.12). Finally, distortion in investment decisions or
in financial management of local institutions would be avoided by ensuring
that:  (a) the least cost alternative is selected;  (b) while consumers in
the lower income brackets receive the benefit of the subsidies that might
be implied in the onlending rate and water charges for basic volume con-
sumption are kept at levels affordable to the poor, all consumption above
this basic volume is charged at above the long range average incremental
cost of the services.   The increase of the onlending rate to 25% and the
new base for revaluation of assets are positive steps toward a more ra-
tional financial policy in the sector.
3.07          Compliance with the external audit requirement  under Loans
1186-ME and 1913-ME has been satisfactory.  FIFAPA's 1981 financial state-
ments were audited by the international firm of Ernst and Whinney-Despacho
Freyssinier Morin S.C..  The 1982 financial statements are being audited.
FIFAPA's accounts will continue to be audited each year by independent and
qualified auditors, and copies of the annual audit report will be submitted
to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each calendar year
(para. 8.01(2)).
The Executing Agency (SEDUE)
3.08      The executing agency would be SEDUE.  The new agency has been or-
ganized into three major "Subsecretariats".   SEDUE was created under the
new Public Administrative Law of December 1982 following the general organ-
ization and responsibilities of the former SAHOP.  Under the Subsecretariat
of Urban Planning, a General Directorate for Water Supply and Sewerage
(DIGESAPA) is being organized (Annex 3), which among other things will be
responsible for: (i) planning of national policies in the water and sewer-
age sector in the country (with the exception of Mexico City); (ii) promot-
ing a better sector strategy for the medium- and long-term coordination of
all actions by the States or Municipalities that would affect the sector;
(iii) promoting technical assistance to the States and municipalities; and
(iv) supervising the construction of all subprojects.   According to the
National Administrative Law, SEDUE may assign the obligation to carry out
the construction of a subproject to any beneficiary. The Government agreed
during negotiations that SEDUE will make this selection in accordance with
technical and administrative criteria satisfactory to the Bank (para.
6/ The annual average inflation rate in Mexico was 34.6% in 1981, 60% in
1982. Inflation is forecasted at 70% in 1983, 50% in 1984, 30% in 1985
and 20% in 1986 and thereafter.



- 8 -
8.01(1)(b)(i)).  The obligation of such beneficiary will be duly reflected
in their respective Subloan Agreements (para. 6.12).
3.09      The changes introduced in the sector organization will not affect
the implementation of the proposed project.   On the contrary, they will
help setting up uniform sector policies and facilitate the dialogue with
State Governments.   All qualified managers formerly with SAHOP have been
appointed to key positions in DIGESAPA (para. 2.07).  Assurances were ob-
tained during negotiations that DIGASAPA is properly staffed with qualified
professionals and that it will be responsible for the supervision of the
construction of all projects under FIFAPA (para. 8.01(1)).
IV. THE BENEFICIARIES
General
4.01      The beneficiaries of the proposed loan will be:
(a) a group of medium-size cities similar to those benefitting
from Loans 1186-ME and 1913-ME.  FIFAPA onlending agreement
would require that all beneficiary systems not under CEAPAS
be organized as autonomous municipal water companies (BC
Companies) (para. 5.10 (b)); and
(b) the Sinaloa Water Board (CEAPAS), an autonomous agency of
the State of Sinaloa that regulates and coordinates the
activities of the five semi-autonomous regional water and
sewerage companies (Regional Companies) (para. 4.04).
It is expected that the experience with CEAPAS, if successful, will be re-
plicated in other states.
The BC Companies
4.02      All the BC companies manage their own assets and funds, and would
have independent Boards of Directors.   Generally, the Board of Directors
has five members:  one appointed by SEDUE, one by the State Governor, one
by the Municipal Council and two by representative groups from industrial,
commercial or consumer organizations.
4.03        Most of the BC Companies appraised share the following similar
problems: (a) lack of competent senior staff; (b) poorly trained interme-
diate level staff; (c) inadequate operational and maintenance practices, as
reflected mainly in a high percentage of water losses and deficient meter-
ing; (d) lack of clear financial objectives and tariff policies; and (e)
inadequate management information systems.   SEDUE is well aware of these
shortcomings.   During negotiations, assurances were obtained from SEDUE
that the training program already devised by SAHOP and the institutional
development programs established under Loan 1186-ME (para. 2.12) will be



- 9 -
implemented in the BC Companies of the proposed project (paras. 5.05 and
8.01(1)(b)(ii)).
CEAPAS
4.04       The legal framework for water supply and sewerage activities in
the State of Sinaloa was set up by Decree of August 21, 1981 (Summary of
the Law in Annex 4).  The Decree regulates the function of the State Advi-
sory Board, the Sinaloa Water Board and the Regional Water and Sewerage
Companies, and defines the relation of entities with the State Public Works
Department and the municipalities. CEAPAS, organized in September 1981, is
an autonomous public entity.  It is governed by a Board of Directors inte-
grated by the Governor and a representative of the State Congress, the
municipalities, and several trade and labor organizations within the
State.   CEAPAS acts as a regulating and coordinating authority.   CEAPAS
controls the activities of the five semi-autonomous Regional Companies that
own and eventually will operate all water and sewerage systems in the
State. Its responsibilities are to establish investment priorities to ne-
gotiate the financing of investment for water and sewerage projects, to
prepare proposals for the approval of the State Congress of tariff and to
monitor the Regional Companies' operations (para. 6.12).
4.05      CEAPAS lacks experience and competent staff to properly carry out
its functions.  Insufficient attention has been paid by the state authori-
ties to define the organizational and operational systems best suited to
CEAPAS' responsibilities. The proposed project will provide funds for con-
sultant services to study the situation and to develop and implement the
best fitted organization and systems (para. 5.05).
Regional Companies
4.06      Three of the five Regional Companies (Rio Humaya, Rio Fuerte and
Rio Baluarte) have been incorporated into CEAPAS.  The other two Regional
Companies (Rio Evora and Rio Sinaloa) are still in the process of incorpo-
ration.   As a condition of disbursement of loan proceeds to CEAPAS, the
five Regional Companies should have been incorporated to CEAPAS, their or-
ganization set up and key personnel appointed (para. 8.04(c)).
4.07       Less than 40% of Sinaloa's water supply and sewerage systems are
managed by the Regional Companies. The integrated systems are, the largest
systems of the main cities (para. 6.06).  The general objective of CEAPAS
is that all systems should be under their corresponding Regional Companies
by 1986.
4.08       The Regional Companies will be more complex to manage than Bank
project beneficiaries in medium-size cities.  In addition to the many sys-
tems they would have to administer, they will be confronted with an acute
shortage of qualified professionals and a higher than average population
growth in the larger urban centers which have become important market
places due to the states' well diversified agriculture and general dynamic
economic characteristics.



- 10 -
4.09       CEAPAS has begun to organize all Regional Companies with stand-
ardized  structures  and procedures.   The  typical  organization  comprises
three departments:   operations and maintenance, commercial activities, and
accounting  and administration.   Currently,  these  simple  organizational
features are considered adequate because of the yet limited number of sys-
tems under the Regional Companies' management, and because SEDUE would be
responsible, for the time being, for most project construction activities.
Organizational improvements would, however, be necessary in time as the
Regional Companies take over responsibilities for all systems.   The pro-
posed project aims at improving the organization and capabilities of the
Companies through the provision of an extended institutional building pro-
gram (paras. 5.04-5.05).  An institutional overview of each Regional Com-
pany is summarized in Annex 5.
Accounting
4.10      All BC Companies, CEAPAS and its Regional Companies have cash ac-
counting systems which do not permit the preparation of acceptable finan-
cial statements.   Their accounting methods, procedures and policies, are
not satisfactory.  Fixed assets are not properly kept, depreciated, or re-
valued.   Some BC Companies do not have separate accounts for water and
sewerage services.  Cost accounting methods do not segregate costs by type
of service.   The subloan agreement contemplates measures to be taken to
correct this situation (para. 6.12).
Accounts Receivable
4.11       All BC and Regional Companies have serious problems with their
accounts receivable. They are recorded inaccurately, a large proportion is
estimated to be old or seemingly incollectable, and no allowance for doubt-
ful accounts is generally made.
Audit
4.12       State or municipal authorities audit all the appraised BC Compa-
nies every two years.  Because CEAPAS was formed so recently, neither it
nor its Regional Companies have been audited.   Audit procedures are far
from satisfactory.  Under each subloan agreement the BC Company or the Re-
gional Company concerned would be required to have its accounts audited
every year by independent auditors satisfactory to BANOBRAS/SEDUE (para.
6.12).   Such audit reports and its supplementary letter will be available
to the Bank for review.  A similar requirement was included in Loan 1186-MF
and performance has been satisfactory.
Tariffs
4.13      The BC Companies and CEAPAS do not have the power to set tariffs,
as this right rests with the congresses of the states.  On the premise that
water is a social good, tariffs have often been left unchanged for many
years. A major contribution of FIFAPA would be the introduction of annual
reviews of tarif£E levels against clearly specified financial criteria



- 11 -
(para. 6.12).  With regard to structure, tariffs and other charges gener-
ally do not reflect the real cost of the services to the Companies.   To
correct this situation, a national water supply and tariff study which will
serve as a framework to design and implement tariff structures and levels
in medium-size cities, has been completed, subject to the final comments
from the Bank.   SEDUE, within the framework recommended by the national
tariff study will carry out in each one of the BC and Regional Companies
(para. 8.01(1) a specific tariff study not later than six months after
subloan signature.  Based on this study, each BC or Regional Company would
develop and implement a specific tariff structure satisfactory to BANOBRAS
and the Bank six months after subloan signature (para. 6.12).
V. THE PROJECT
Introduction
5.01        The project is a follow-up of previous Bank operations in the
water supply and sewerage sector in Mexico.   The beneficiaries under pre-
vious loans were limited to autonomous water and sewerage companies in
medium-size  cities.   The  Government  realized  that  this  scheme  was not
suited for smaller cities, where autonomous water companies would not be
viable. It decided to promote the creation of autonomous state water com-
panies to take over the responsibility for all water supply and sewerage
systems in each State.  This scheme would permit to properly supervise pro-
ject implementation, to achieve economies of scale associated with large
companies, to decentralize the decision-making process which has been con-
centrated in Mexico City and to establish a uniform financial scheme.
5.02      The proposed project will be carried out by SEDUE.  Reponsibility
for construction will be progressively transferred to State or Municipal
Water Companies (para. 3.08).   The project consists of three main compo-
nents.   The first component would support the creation of a pilot state
water board in the State of Sinaloa, in charge of the operation and the
construction of the urban and rural water supply and sewerage systems in
the whole State; and an investment program in selected cities with popula-
tion of more than 5,000 inhabitants.  The second component will help to im-
prove and extend water supply and sewerage systems in medium-size cities
outside  the  State  of  Sinaloa.    The  third  component  will  help  SEDUE
(DIGESAPA) and FIFAPA to improve their performance (para 2.07).   It will
also finance studies to improve the efficiency of the sector.   The main
characteristic of water and sewerage services in appraised cities are pre-
sented in Annex 6.
Objectives
5.03       The objectives of the proposed project will be:  (a) to support,
through the development of a model state water and sewerage company the
government's efforts to decentralize the sector at state level; (b) to pro-
mote the development of basic infrastr(ucture in medium-size cities as a



- 12 -
tool to improve the population distribution in the country and promote in-
dustrial growth, in accordance with Government objectives; (c) to improve
the environmental and health conditions in medium-size cities through: ex-
pansion of water and sewerage services, especially to low-income areas; im-
plementation of chlorination programs to provide bacteriologically safe
water to the urban population; implementation of leak detection programs;
and provision of sewage treatment in cities where pollution problems are
more pressing or where downstream water use requires it; (d) to improve the
environmental and health conditions of the population of Sinaloa State by
assisting CEAPAS in implementing a pilot health education program; (e) to
assist DIGESAPA and FIFAPA in the improvement of its efficiency through a
technical assistance program and the purchase of operational equipment.
Description
5.04       The first component of the proposed project will be executed in
the State of Sinaloa and consists of an institutional development program
for CEAPAS, construction of water supply and sewerage facilities in commu-
nities of more than 5,000 inhabitants, a health education program and the
purchase of operation and maintenance equipment for CEAPAS, such as meter
repairs, topography equipment, excavators, laboratory leak detection and
construction equipment. This component would benefit an estimated popula-
tion of  1.5 million people.   A schedule of expenditures is presented in
Annex 14. This component represents 36% of total project cost.
5.05       An outline of terms of reference for the institutional develop-
ment program is presented in Annex 8.  The hiring of consultants to carry
out this program will be a condition of disbursement for the first compo-
nent.  SEDUE shall furnish to the Bank not later than June 30, 1985 for its
comments, the conclusion of the diagnosis on the institutional development
program and by December 31, 1987 a program for its implementation in terms
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 8.04(a)).
5.06       The construction program in Sinaloa will be implemented in four
cities:   Culiacan, Los Mochis, Topolobampo and Mazatlan (Map 16392).  The
population, services and demand in these cities are presented in Annex 7,
and the proposed works, which would benefit an estimated population of
400,000 people, is presented in Annex 9.
5.07         The Health Education  Program will  promote better sanitation
habits  among  the  population.    Water  supply and  sanitation  investments
usually require the acceptance, utilization and continuous maintenance of
new, perhaps unfamiliar, technologies by the community.   Collective beha-
vioral change is required in order to achieve measurable impact on both in-
dlvidual and community health status.   This subcomponent of the project
consists of design and implementation oE a two-year program including the
hiring of consultant services and purchasing of equipment for its implemen-
tation.  An outline of Terms of Reference for the HIealth Education Program
is presented in Annex 12.
5.08       The second component of the proposed project consists of improv-
ing water supply and sewerage systems in medium-size cities outside of



- 13 -
Sinaloa State.   The four appraised cities, Celaya, Colima, Cd. Guzman and
Tapachula (Map 16393), are representative of the whole component.   A de-
tailed component scope for each of the appraised cities is presented in
Annex 10. In summary, this component, which represents 63.7% of total pro-
ject cost, will include:
(a)  provision of new production facilities and improvement of
existing ones to increase capacity to meet demand needs up
to 1995;
(b)  chlorination  of  all  water  supplies  for  bacteriological
safety and provision of laboratory equipment to control
water quality;
(c)  construction of transmission pipelines from the new produc-
tion facilities to the distribution systems, and of addi-
tional storage capacity;
(d)  extension of the water system to areas without service and
improvement of the water distribution system to increase its
delivery capacity;
(e)  installation of new metered house connections and provision
of meters for currently unmetered connections to cover 95%
of ali connections;
(f)  purchase and installation of production meters and meter re-
pair shops, and implementation of leak detection surveys and
leak detection and control programs to reduce unaccounted-
for water to about 25% by 1987;
(g)  construction of sewer interceptors and outfalls to eliminate
sewage discharge in populated areas;
(h)  extension of sewer pipes to areas without sewerage services,
including the construction of house discharges;
(i)  construction of sewage pumping stations, where topographic
conditions precltude the use of gravity systems; and
(j)  construction  of sewage  treatment  plants,  where downstream
use requires improvement in water quatlity.
5.09        The third component of the proposed project, consists of (a) a
program to improve the institutional capacity of DIGESAPA and FIFAPA
(para. 3.03, 3.08), especially designed for the Departments responsible for
supervising the implementation of the FIFAPA projects, including the pur-
chase of operational equipment; (b) studies to further improve the effi-
ciency of the water supply and sewerage sector such as pilot programs for
metering and control of water quality.   To carry out these studies SEDUE
will present terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) a study



- 14 -
to review SEDUE's guidelines for project preparation in accordance with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The revision aims at updating
technical, financial and economic criteria. This study will be carried out
by June 30, 1985 (para. 8.01(1)(b)(vii)).
Priority and Selection Criteria
5.10       Subprojects in all beneficiary cities have been selected in ac-
cordance with the priorities set forth in the National Urban Development
Plan (PNDU).  Quality of services, the existence of idle production capa-
city allowina increase in coverage by complementary investments and/or the
urgent need to rehabilitate existing systems were taken into account in the
selection. Because of the large number of subprojects that would be eligi-
ble to participate in the project, BANOBRAS/SEDUE will make the selection
according to the following criteria (para. 8.01(2)(b)):
(a) a feasibility study would be prepared for each proposed sub-
project in accordance with SEDUE guidelines for project pre-
paration in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and would cor-
respond to the least-cost solution;
(b) the water supply and sewerage facilities to be improved or
expanded under the corresponding subproject shall be oper-
ated and maintained by an autonomous water supply and sewer-
age company (BC Company) except for cities in the State of
Sinaloa (para. 4.01(a));
(c) for subprojects to be carried out in cities with present po-
pulations greater than 50,000 inhabitants, the internal rate
of return (IRR) should be at least equal to 11% (estimated
opportunity cost of capital in Mexico);
(d) for subprojects to be carried out in cities with present
populations between 10,000 and 50,000 inhabitants, the IRR
should be at least equal to 6%;7/
(e)  if the IRR of subprojects under (c) and (d) above are lower
than required, a subproject would be eligible if the tariffs
for both water supply and sewerage for consumption above the
minimum levels (15 m3/conn./month) are at least equal to the
respective long-run average incremental costs;
(f) subproiects to be carried out in cities with populations of
less than 10,000 inhabitants should have a per capita con-
struction cost for its water and sanitation systems of less
than the equivalent of US$200 for each systemn; and
7/   Unit costs per population served are higher than those for cities with
populations over 50,000 inhabitants and capacity to pay is generally
lower. The lower IRR should still ensure that consumers in these towns pay
tariffs similar to those in larger cities.



- 15 -
(g)  subprojects not meeting the criteria set forth in the pre-
ceeding literals should be redesigned to lower acceptable
standards.   If the subproject does not fulfill the criteria
after it has been redesigned, it would be eligible for Bank
financing, only if quantitative evidence indicates the
existence of unusually high mortality or morbidity rates as
a consequence of the lack of adequate water and sanitation
conditions.
5.11      There is a risk that some of the selected cities might not agree
to the onlending conditions (para. 6.12) (Annex 23).   They would not be
eligible for FIFAPA financing and would be excluded from the proposed pro-
ject.   In the event that an investment program for any appraised city is
fully or partly cancelled, other high priority subprojects could be in-
cluded, provided it complies with the above-mentioned criteria, and would
be submitted to the Bank no later than December 31, 1984 (para.
8.01(2)(b)).
Technological Alternatives and Service Standards
5.12      Under the proposed project appropriate technological alternatives
and water and sewerage service standards will be tailored to medium-size
or small cities in CEAPAS.  Medium-size cities are expected to build con-
ventional systems with most consumers served through house connections and
waterborne sewerage.   In the smaller cities, the lower ability to pay, as
well as less exposure to urban standards, require a progressive approach.
Initially, the primary objective will be to improve public health.  Impro-
vements in the quality of service can be made at a later date when the com-
munity can afford their costs.  This primary health objective can be fully
achieved by low cost sanitation technologies, which are much simpler and
cheaper than conventional ones.
5.13        In order to ensure that CEAPAS will be able to select the most
appropriate technology and standards of service for any given community,
the institutional development program will assess the present situation and
will determine the way to upgrade the systems according to long-term needs.
Status of Project Preparation
5.14        SEDUE prepared twelve feasibility studies, eight of which were
appraised. These feasibility studies represents about 60% of total project
cost. Their final designs are complete and available in the Project File.
Final designs for three additional subprojects are 75% complete and would
be called for bid during the first year of project execution.
Cost Estimates
5.15      Detailed project costs are presented in Annexes 9, 10 and 11 and
are summarized in Table 5.1.  The estimated total cost of the project (not
including front-end fee) is US$193 million equivalent with a total foreign
exchange cost of US$100 million (52%) (Table 5.1).  Total project cost is



- 16 -
exclusive of interest during construction, which would be financed by
FIFAPA.   Base cost estimates, expressed in prices of December  1982, were
based on bills of quantities from those subprojects with advanced engineer-
ing designs, and on unit prices from SEDUE's 1982 unit price catalogue.
The Bank compared these unit prices with recent bids for similar civil
works, materials and equipment in Loan 1913-MF and found them to be sound.
5.16        Physical contingency allowances were estimated on the basis of
the type of terrain where the project is to be constructed, climatic condi-
tions, access to the site of the works, amount of field work which has been
completed,  and degree of preparation of final engineering designs.   The
average allowance was 10% for civil works, 15% for water or sewerage treat-
ment plants, and 5% for supplies and equipment.   No physical contingency
was assumed for consulting services.  As 40% of total project cost has not
been allocated to specific subprojects, physical contingencies for defined
components have been incorporated in their basic costs.   Price contingen-
cies were based on a six-year construction program for the total project,
starting in 1984.   Price contingencies for the local component were based
on projections of the Mexican price index:   70% in 1983; 50% in 1984, 30%
in 1985 and 20% from 1986 until project completion (1989).   Price contin-
gencies for the foreign component were based on international inflation
forecasts of 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985, and 6% from 1986 to
1989. Variations in the exchange rates were assumed to compensate for the
difference between local and international  inflation rates.   Engineering
and administrative expenses were estimated at 7% of the investment cost on
the basis of experience obtained during the execution of Loans 1186-ME and
1913-ME.
Table 5.1. PROJECT COST
_ US$ (Million)
Components                         Local      Foreign        Total
CEAPAS                                      31.4        32.0           63.4
Medium-Size Cities                          55.0        55.0          110.5
Institutional Building Program               2.1         1.0            3.1
Total Basic Cost                            88.5        88.5          177.0
Price Contingencies                          4.5        11.5           16.0
Total Project Cost                          93.0       100.0          193.0
Front-end fee                                 -          0.3            0.3
Interest during const. 8/                    -          53.7           53.7
Total financing required                    93.0       154.0          247.0
5.17        Final engineering designs, supervision of construction and the
institutional development program will require about 1,460 man-months of
consultant services, of which only 31 man-months (2%) would be interna-
tional. The estimated average cost per man-month for local consultants,
8/   Interest  and  commitment  fees  paid  to the World Bank from date of
effectiveness to project completion in June 1990.



- 17 -
including salaries, social costs, firm's overhead and fees is estimated at
US$2,400.  The average cost per man-month for foreign consultants, includ-
ing the same items as the cost of local consultants, plus overseas allow-
ance, is estimated at US$13,600. FIFAPA's subsidiary loan agreements would
provide that consulting services for final engineering designs and con-
struction supervision would be charged to each subproject.
5.t8        The B.ank Loan will finance the US$100 million foreign exchange
component  of the  project,  plus  the US$0.3 million front-end  fee.   The
Mexican Government has agreed to make available to FIFAPA as needed, the
necessary counterpart funds and the funds to cover cost overruns (paras.
3.04 and 8.01(a)).
Implementation
5.19      SEDUE, through DIGESAPA (para. 3.08), would be in charge of: (a)
supervising the work of engineering consultants; (b) preparing bidding
documents and tender analysis; (c) supervising construction; (d) monitoring
project execution and compliance with subloan agreements by the beneficia-
ries; (e) providing technical assistance in all areas of management to the
local water authorities; (f) monitoring execution of the health education
and institutional development programs for CEAPAS; (g) executing its insti-
tutional development program and the studies to improve the efficiency of
the sector; (h) being responsible of the construction of all FIFAPA pro-
jects; and (i) selecting as the case may be and in accordance with tech-
nical and administrative criteria satisfactory to the Bank,   the benefi-
ciary to which SEDUE may assign the responsibility to carry out the con-
struction of a subproject (para. 3.08).   The proposed investment program
has been discussed with BANOBRAS/SEDUE and is compatible with their execu-
tion capabilities.
5.20       The project will be implemented during 1984-89 and will be com-
pleted by December 31, 1989.   The closing date will be June 30, 1990 to
allow for processing of pending disbursement applications.  Annual project
investments are presented in Annexes 9, 10 and 11.  The construction sched-
ule is presented in Annex 13.
5.21       As a condition of disbursement the Bank will review and approve
feasibility studies and procurement plan for all BC cities.  If a project
includes as a component the construction of water or sewerage treatment
plants, the Bank will not disburse this component until final engineering
designs have been presented to the Bank for its approval.
Supervision
5.22         The project will consolidate SEDUE's and FIFAPA's management
capabilities and improve management practices and procedures in CEAPAS and
the BC Companies.  Bank supervision will monitor the implementation of the
institutional building components of the project and provide technical as-
sistance to SEDUE in technical matters. The Bank's supervision effort has
been estimated at about 18 staff-weeks/year for the first three years
(1984-87) and 15 staff-weeks/year thereafter.



- 18 -
Procurement
5.23        Procurement procedures will be similar to those followed under
Loans 1186-MF and 1913-ME.  All goods and services will be procured in ac-
cordance with Bank guidelines.   To the extent practicable,  civil works,
materials and equipment should be grouped so as to make them attractive for
international competitive bidding  (ICB).   As a condition of disbursement
for each individual subproject, BANOBRAS/SEDUE will furnish the Bank, for
comment, the bidding package for each subproject, and would make such modi-
fications as the Bank may suggest (para. 8.03(b)).  Contracts in excess of
US$2.5 million for civil works and US$500,000 for the purchase of equipment
and materials would be procured on the basis of ICB.  Contracts for civil
works of less than US$2.5 million but over US$250,000, or less than
US$500,000 but over US$150,000 for the purchase of equipment would be pro-
cured on the basis of local competitive bidding, for which the procedure is
satisfactory.  Contracts of less than US$250,000 for civil works and less
than US$150,000 for materials subject to a maximum aggregate of US$8.0 mil-
lion (4% of total project cost) could be procured directly on the basis of
a minimum of three quotations. No force account works are envisaged.
5.24       Given the advanced degree of development of the civil works con-
struction industry in Mexico, all civil works contracts are expected to be
won by local contractors.   For all contracts under ICB, BANOBRAS/SEDUE
will make copies of bidding documents, bid analysis reports and recommen-
dations for awards available to the Bank for prior review and approval.
General conditions for tender documents to be used for ICB and local procu-
rement were prepared under the two previous FIFAPA operations and are ac-
ceptable to the Bank.   Contracts awarded under local competitive bidding
procedures will be submitted to the Bank for ex-post review. If the review
reveals misprocurement, the corresponding Loan funds will be cancelled.
Goods manufactured locally and procured under ICB would be allowed a pre-
ference over foreign goods of 15% of the CIF price or the level of import
duty, whichever  is lower.   A modification in the original  price of an
awarded contract up to 30% will not require further review and approval of
the Bank.
Disbursement
5.25       Bank financing of the foreign component (52%, Table 5.1) will be
achieved by disbursing 55% of all payments to contractors except the repay-
ment of the 5% retention withheld from civil works contractors.  BANOBRAS
will also be reimbursed 55% of the sum paid to consultants for engineering
designs, construction supervision and technical assistance. Annex 14 shows
the estimated schedule of disbursements.   This schedule is based in past
experience on Loans 1186-ME and 1913-ME, one year shorter than the average
experience for all sector operations which the Bank has financed in
Mexico. The closing date will be June 30, 1990. The advance state of pro-
ject preparation indicates that this shorter disbursement period is likely
to be achieved.   Proceeds of the proposed Bank loan upon presentation of
normal documentation would be disbursed under the following categories:



- 19 -
Table 5.2: CATEGORIES OF DISBURSEMENT
Category                                  Amount         % of Expenditure
-________   _ ____  _________  (US$ million)       to be financed
1. For the CEAPAS Component
Equipment, materials, civil                 35.6           70% up to Dec.
works, and consulting services                              1985 and 39.0%
for engineering and management                             thereafter for
assistance                                                 a consolidated
average of 55%
2. For Medium-Size Cities Component
Equipment, materials, civil works,          62.0           Same as above
and consulting services for engine-
ering and management assistance
3. SEDUE and FIFAPA Institutional
Building Program
Equipment, consulting services
and studies                                2.4            Same as above
4.  Front-end fee on Bank Loan                   0.3                   100%
100.3
5.26      Under the present circumstances of important changes in the sec-
tor, it is very important that this project does not encounter difficulties
due to slow disbursements as a consequence of the government's temporary
cash flow problems.   In order to avoid slippage in the implementation of
the project, principally at its early stages, Bank's disbursements will be
increased from 55% to 70% up to December 1985.  After that date, the dis-
bursement rate would be 39% to achieve the consolidated average disburse-
ment rate of 55%.
Environmental Aspects
5.27       The proposed project will have positive effects on the environ-
ment by improving the sanitary conditions, mainly in low-income areas in
the subproject cities.  These improvements would be expedited in the State
of Sinaloa because the public would be better informed of how water supply
and sanitation services can be utilized for their personal benefit through
a health education program (para. 5.07).   There will be, however, an in-
crease in the volume of sewage discharged into water courses. In many in-
stances, the proposed works will help to reduce health hazards from sewage
spillovers caused by insufficient delivery capacity of existing sewer sys-
tems (para. 5.08(g)).   The project includes the construction of adequate
sewerage treatment facilities (para. 5.08 (j)) in those cities where domes-
tic and industrial pollutant loads could cause adverse effects on down-
stream domestic and agricultural water uses. In some cases, sewage treat-
ment will not be part of the proposed works as sewage pollution loads (both
current and those caused by the project) will be low compared with the



- 20 -
self-purification capacity of the receiving waters and will not interfere
with downstream use.  The monitoring and control of water quality will be
enhanced by the proposed project through the execution of the pilot program
to improve water quality (para. 5.09) and the provision of laboratory
equipment in all subproject cities (para. 5.08(b)).
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
BANOBRAS - Financial Performance
6.01        BANOBRAS operations have been growing at a high rate since its
inception  in  1933.   Its  1981  annual lending  program  amounted  to  about
US$2.1 billion and its net profit after taxes was US$37.58 million equiva-
lent.   Total assets as of December 31, 1981 amounted to US$10.4 billion.
Consolidated financial statements for 1979-1981 are shown in Annex 15.  In
the past BANOBRAS has had a satisfactory financial position.  However, the
future financial and cash flow position of BANOBRAS would depend on its
ability to recover large loans from local companies that due to the present
situation of the Mexican economy are experiencing problems. Also, BANOBRAS
manages several trust funds for which repayment depends on the ability of
the Government to raise users charges or alternatively channel budgetary
funds to cover payments due from the beneficiaries of these funds.
6.02    FIFAPA has been an important factor in helping the Federal Govern-
ment to reduce its grant financing to the water supply and sewerage sec-
tor. FIFAPA has contracted financing with 13 sector entities, 6 covered by
the first Medium-Size Cities Project, and the remaining 7 by the second
operation.   FIFAPA will continue to grow, and it is expected  that by the
end of 1984, with the addition of the proposed Project, the total FIFAPA
commitments will reach about US$678 million. Between December 31, 1979 and
December 31, 1981, FIFAPA's assets had increased from US$28 million equi-
valent to US$109 million  equivalent, or a 288% growth.   During the same
period, FIFAPA's net worth has grown from US$27.5 million equivalent, to
US$106 million equivalent, a 286% increase. In 1979, FIFAPA had a net in-
come of US$1.96 million equivalent compared with US$7.36 million equivalent
in  1981, representing  an  increase  of  275%.   Past financial and  income
statements are presented in Annex 15.  The Federal Government also assumes
the foreign exchange risk related to FIFAPA operations. BANOBRAS services
the debt service to the Bank.
Subborrowers Financial Performance
Medium Size-Cities
6.03         The financial performance  of the four medium-size  cities  ap-
praised (Celaya, Colima, Cd. Guzman and Tapachula) provides a wide range of
financial results quite representative of all medium-size cities water and
sewerage  companies which  would  benefit  from  the  proposed  project; this



- 21 -
mainly because all these companies have similar accounting, financial and
administrative problems and constraints, as stressed in paras. 4.03, 4.10-
4.13.
6.04       In 1981, the financial performance of the five cities appraised
varies  substantially  (Annex  16).   Working  ratios  ranging  from:  .50 in
Tapachula to 1.10 in Colima clearly indicate important differences in the
operational  efficiency  from  one  city  to another.    All  cities,  except
Tapachula, show a negative net income before interest.  However, these re-
sults are not representative since fixed assets are neither revalued, de-
preciated, nor recorded properly. The rate base is unrealistically low and
the estimated rates of return are not representative of financial perform-
ance.   Accounts receivable, as a percentage of total revenues, range from
4% to 90%.  This reflects the other large discrepancy existing among the
cities in matters of commercial efficiency.  Long-term debt is almost non-
existent in most cities, except in Colima and Tapachula, where it repre-
sents 6% and 4.7% respectively of total assets. This situation illustrates
the fact that most of the investments have been financed by Federal and/or
State Government grants.
CEAPAS
6.05       CEAPAS acts as a regulatory agency for water and sewerage acti-
vities in the State of Sinaloa, and as a financial intermediary, which will
relend the proceeds of the Bank loan to the Regional Companies.  Since its
creation, CEAPAS costs have been covered by the State budget.   The State
Government's objective is to fully recover CEAPAS' operating costs through
a scheme of fees to be paid by the Regional Companies.  As a condition of
disbursement to CEAPAS, fees acceptable to the Bank to be charged to all
Regional Companies will be developed (para. 8.04(b). The service payments
on existing debt of the systems that CEAPAS is taking over are paid by the
state, and therefore no long-term debt appears in CEAPAS' balance sheet.
Regional Companies
6.06       Only the Regional Companies of Rio Fuerte, Rio Baluarte and Rio
Humaya have prepared preliminary financial statements.   They include only
the syste.ms of the appraised cities of Mazatlan, Culiacan and Los Mochis,
which are the only cities that have been transferred so far to the Regional
Companies (para. 4.07). In general, they indicate a weak financial situa-
tion, as of December 1982 (Annex 17).   The working ratios were somewhat
high in Mazatlan (116) and Los Mochis (151).  Cash flows and net incomes
were negative.   Their rates of return were also negative,  but are not
really representative of financial performance, since the cities face
serious accounting problems similar to those of the appraised medium-size
cities.    On  the  other hand,  Culiacan,  a beneficiary  city  under  Loan
1186-ME, presented well prepared financial statements and better financial
results which can be attributed to the improvements introduced during pro-
ject implementation.   The financial covenant (para. 6.12) (Annex 23) and
the technical assistance program included in the proposed project are in-
tended to make the Regional Companies financially viable.



- 22 -
Financing Plan
6.07       The financing plan for each one of the five appraised BC Compa-
nies and for the appraised cities under the regional companies is shown in
Annex 20.
6.08       The consolidated financing plan for the project is presented in
Table 6.1.
Table 6.1: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN 1983-88
Applications                                      (US$Mill)              (%)
Total financial requirements (Table 5.1)            247.0               73.2
Interest during construction on
FIFAPA loans to subborrowers                       62.1               18.4
Other works and replacements                         28.1                8.3
Total financing requirements                        337.2              100.0
Sources
IBRD proposed loan 1/                               100.3               29.7
Federal Government                                  146.7               43.5
Interest during construction (FIFAPA)                62.1               18.4
Regional and BC Companies
Internal cash generation                           28.1                8.3
Total                                            337.2               100.0
17  The Mexican Government has requested the financing of the   front-end
fee.
6.09      During 1984-89, the total financing requirements of US$343.6 mil-
lion equivalent would be financed as follows:
a)   The Bank's contribution to FIFAPA would represent 55% of the
cost of each subproject, up to a total amount of US$100.3
million (29.7% of total financial requirements), to finance
the foreign exchange component of the project and the
front-end fee;
b)   The  Federal  Government  will  provide  US$146.7  million  of
counterpart funds (43.5% of total financial requirements,
including  VAT and  interest  paid  to  the  World  Bank)  to
FIFAPA, on an equity basis;
c)   FIFAPA will  finance  interest  during  construction  on  its
loans (18.4% of total financial requirements) to the benefi-
ciary cities; and



- 23 -
d)   The Regional and BC Companies will finance minor extensions
and replacements (8.3% of total financial requirements) from
their own internal cash generation.
Revenues
6.10       In most beneficiary cities, water and sewerage tariff levels and
structures are inadequate.   There is no differentiation between types of
consumers.  Minimum consumption allowance is often too large (up to 20 m3
per month).  Charges are not sufficiently progressive to discourage water
waste and to allow cross-subsidization.   Low fixed sewerage charges are
widely used and are frequently levied on all consumers including those
lacking this service.   CEAPAS does not have a uniform tariff level and
structure for the entire state.   Each municipality sets its own tariff.
CEAPAS intends  to have a uniform tariff for each Regional Company.   In
principle, this would permit cross-subsidization among users of different
income levels and from richer to poorer localities. The national framework
tariff study being carried out under Loan 1913-ME (para. 4.13) will help
the Regional Companies and the medium-size cities to implement uniform
tariff levels and structure.
6.11        Connection fees charged to new consumers include:   (a)   a fee
(derecho de conexion) for the right of access to the service; and (b) a
charge for the materials and labor costs incurred in connecting to the sys-
tem. The rationale for these fees and charges and the amount assessed does
not follow a uniform or consistent pattern.   Because  the companies may
modify these charges without approval from the State Legislature, these are
frequently adjusted to meet the Companies' financial needs.  This practice
makes commitment fees often so high that low-income consumers may be de-
prived from connecting to the water and sewerage systems.   In some in-
stances, a special charge (cuota de cooperacion) has been instituted to
partially recover the costs of water production and complementary works
considered to benefit specific areas. This special charge is based on the
lot area. Property owners are assessed and pay under terms and conditions
set by each BC Company.
Subloan Agreements
6.12       FIFAPA would relend the proceeds of the Bank Loan and Government
contribution to the BC Companies and CEAPAS, who in turn would relend its
funds to the Regional Companies under the same terms and conditions re-
ceived by FIFAPA.  The FIFAPA loan will cover the cost of construction and
consulting services, the corresponding VAT, and interest during construc-
tion.  Subloans agreement eligible for inclusion in the project, should be
signed before December 31, 1984.  Each subloan would carry an interest of
at least 25% p.a. and a 15-year term after a grace period equal to the con-
struction period but not greater than 4 years.  The amount of each subloan
would not be modified without prior Bank approval.   Each subloan will be
secured by contractual agreements between FIFAPA/SEDUE, the BC Companies or
CEAPAS, as the case may be, and the Government of the State.   The state
governments will give FIFAPA a lien on the state's share of Federal taxes



- 24 -
and will guarantee repayments, as well as punctual performance by the bene-
ficiaries of all other obligations under the subloan agreement.  Each sub-
loan agreement between FIFAPA and the BC companies and CEAPAS, and between
CEAPAS and its Regional Companies will require Bank approval as a condition
of disbursement. They will include the specific conditions listed in Annex
23. However, if a beneficiary has been selected by SEDUE to carry out the
construction of the respective subproject, this specific subloan agreement
will include the obligation to procure the goods and civil works needed for
the project in accordance with the procedure stated in para. 5.23 and to
carry out the project with due diligency and efficiency.
Future Finances of Beneficiaries
Medium-Size Cities
6.13        Assumptions for financial projections for the period  1982-1988
are presented in Annex 19. Financial projections for the five BC companies
are in project files. Selected financial data is presented in Annex 21 and
was prepared, taking into consideration the accounting and administrative
problems discussed in para. 4.10.   Financial data is presented in current
Mexican pesos.
6.14        With water tariffs averaging US$0.17/m3 equivalent in 1987, all
beneficiaries should be able to meet their revenue requirements and make
small contributions to investments for other works (Annex 21).  These tar-
iffs compare to the actual  1983 average of US$0.14/m3 (expressed in 1987
prices) for BC Companies under Loan 1186-M.E where projects have been com-
pleted.   Working ratios are generally high at the beginning of the pro-
ject. As their administrative efficiency increases, the working ratios im-
prove.  By 1989, they should range from a low 27% in Cd. Cuzman to a high
44% in Celaya.   Tariffs would increase significantly at the end of the
grace period when the first debt service payment is due.  After that year,
tariffs are expected to be maintained in real terms.   Since 100% of the
investments are financed by FIFAPA, a high debt/total capital ratio is com-
mon during the construction period, and improves thereafter. The estimated
average rate of return among RC Companies after the construction period is
19.8%, on fixed assets not properly kept, depreciated or revalued (para.
4.10).   To correct  this situation,  the subloaa agreement establish that
within a year of subloan signature the fixed assets will he inventoried and
revalued (para. 6.12, Annex 3).  This will likely result in a reduiction of
the above mentioned rate of return.   It is expected that the BC Companies
will be able to increase their own financing capacity after the completion
of the proposed project.
CEAPAS Regional Companies
6.15       No meaningful information is available on the financial situation
of the Regional Companies of Sinaloa.   The main  problem in forecasting
their performance is to determine at this early stage, the timing of incor-
poration of the systems to the Regional Companies.   As an alternative, the
city with the largest percentage of total population in each of the three



- 25 -
main Regional Companies was appraised.  Los Mochis in the Regional Company
of Rio Fuerte represents 38% of the total population of the region.
Mazatlan in the Regional Company of Rio Baluarte represents 51% of total
population, and Culiacan in the Regional Company of Rio Humaya represents
80% of the total population. Assumptions for financial projections for the
period 1982-89 are presented in Annex 19.  Selected financial data is pre-
sented in Annex 22.
6.16          With tariff levels  averaging US$0.15/m3 equivalent  in 1987
prices, all beneficiaries should be able to meet their revenue covenant and
will progressively increase their contributions to new investments. All of
them have the same characteristics of the appraised Medium-Size Cities.
Working ratios are generally high at the beginning of project construction
and they show high debt/equity ratio during the construction period, with
significant improvement afterwards.   The rate of return of Los Mochis im-
proves from a negative  3.9% in  1982 to a positive  13.1% in 1989.   In
Mazatlan it ranges from a negative 6.6% to a positive 25.7% at the end of
1989.  In Culiacan, the rate of return is always positive from a low .3% in
1982 to 13.0% in 1989.
Reporting Requirements
6.17        BANOBRAS would send to the Bank not later than October 31 and
April 30 of each year, starting April 30, 1984, reports on project execu-
tion and costs and information on the performance of the companies.   The
information would be based on audited reports and measured by the monitor-
ing indicators and compliance with subloan covenants.   Financial projec-
tions will be updated annually, and will include revision of tariffs and
other changes, if necessary, to meet the objectives of the financial cove-
nant. BANOBRAS/SEDUE would promptly take such remedial actions as the Bank
may request based on the review of these reports. This requirement is also
included in previous loans, and compliance has been satisfactory.   During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from BANOBRAS, that no later than a
year after the closing date, they will prepare a completion report, satis-
factory to the Bank, describing project execution and its financial and
physical achievements and benefits.
VII. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
7.01          The project supports the Government's continuing efforts  to
achieve a more balanced urban development and to meet the needs of water
supply and sewerage services in selected medium-size cities and in other
cities under the Sinaloa Water Board.  The project would, thereby, enhance
the living and health conditions of their inhabitants.   The proposed pro-
ject would also constitute a step forward to sector development through the
improvement of the management and technical operations of the BC Companies,
CEAPAS and its Regional Companies.   The project, while raising the living



- 26 -
standards of the low-income population, gives special emphasis on the ap-
plication of sound financial policies, as a mean to increase efficiency in
the allocation of water resources and alleviate the burden on Government
finances.
Least-Cost Solution
7.02       Least-cost analysis for all appraised subprojects were reviewed
in detail, and it was found that the appraised subprojects are the least-
cost alternatives for meeting water and sewerage demands for the selected
cities.   Investments were staged to minimize idle capacity while ensuring
supplies to meet the populations' needs.  For subprojects not yet identi-
fied, the selection of least-cost alternatives is a condition to receive
FIFAPA financing (para. 5.10 (a)).
Population Benefitted and Urban Poverty Impact
7.03      The project would provide water supply through house connections
to about 800,000 additional inhabitants and sewerage to about 550,000 addi-
tional inhabitants by the end of the construction period. About 46% of the
additional population to be served with water supply and 40% of the addi-
tional population to be served with sewerage are estimated to belong to the
urban poverty target group, defined as people earning less than one-third
of the annual national per capita income (estimated at US$471.00 in 1982).
Annexes 24 and 25 show the incremental population served and the percentage
of urban poor for the appraised subprojects. Expansion of water production
and distribution facilities, and provision of sewage collectors and inter-
ceptors will permit 95% of the 1991 population of beneficiary cities to
receive water supply and 80% to collect sewerage through the expansion of
secondary networks. On the basis of the appraised cities and their respec-
tive feasibility studies, it is estimated that as a result of the project
about 1.4 million and 1.2 million additional inhabitants will be connected
to the water supply and sewerage systems, respectively, by 1991.
7.04       Water supply coverage for the urban poor will increase from 58%
in 1983 to 88% in 1987, while theii sewerage coverage will increase from 35%
to 65%°.  Coverage will continue to increase in subsequent years.  For this
purpose, water intake works, major networks and sewage collectors have been
designed for a period ranging from 10 to 15 years.
Return on Investments and Marginal Costs
7.06        Return on investments for the appraised subprojects have been
calculated using covenanted  tariff levels as a proxy to value economic
benefits  (detailed  calculation in project  file).   The forecasted  tariff
levels are well within the population's capacity to pay.   Projections of
per capita consumption take into account a likely reduction due to in-
creased metering and tariffs.   Reductions in unaccounted-for water would
result in water being saved and used to serve additional population.  Only
the estimated volumes to be saved by reducing leakage, as a result of
rehabilitation  works,  were  included  in  the  calculation  of  benefits.



- 27 -
Volumes previously consumed but not paid for were excluded from the calcu-
lation of economic benefits. The rates of return obtained are satisfactory
and comply with the selection criteria for the beneficiaries (Table 7.1).
Benefits such as improvements in public health, increases in labor produc-
tivity, and environmental improvements are either not reflected or are only
partially reflected in the tariff paid for these services.  The use of re-
venues as a proxy for benefits under a progressive tariff structure also
understates the benefits of supplying water to low-income population, where
the initial volume of low-price water ensures most of the health benefits
of providing safe water.
7.07      Incremental rates of return (IRR) were estimated by city for pro-
ject investments and complementary works in water supply and water supply
and sewerage combined (Table 7.1).   No return was estimated for sewerage
alone since sewerage tariffs are levied as a percentage of the water charge
and do not necessarily reflect the benefits that the users would assign to
the sewerage service separately.
7.08        The estimated aggregate IRR for the seven appraised subprojects
is 17%. Detailed calculations are in project files.
7.09      Families earning one monthly minimum salary presumably below the
critical consumption level of 4 m3 of unsafe water purchased from private
vendors, will now have access to safe water.  These families would spend,
including payments for connection fees, a maximum of 3% of their monthly
income for minimum consumption.   Services would, therefore, be affordable
to the whole population of the benefitted cities.
7.10        The rates of return shown in Table 7.1 indicate that water and
sewerage tariffs on average will be close to long-run average incremental
costs, estimated on the basis of the same investment programs (discounted
at 11%). Higher tariffs per unit volume for water consumption in excess of
minimum consumption will be set to reflect the policies of cross-subsidiza-
tion to low-income consumers and of avoiding waste in the use of water re-
sources.   Tariff studies for each city will include detailed calculations
for long-run average incremental costs and a comparison with tariff levels
and structures. In order to improve resource allocation, tariffs on excess
consumption will be set as closely as possible to long-run average incre-
mental costs.
Table 7.1: INCREMENTAT. RATE OF RETURN
(Water Supply and Sewerage)
Tapachula  Celaya  Cd.Guzman  Colima  Los Mochis   Mazatlan  Culiacan
15       19         15        15         17           17        20
Long Run Incremental Cost
13.0      5.8        5.0       6.8        2.8          6.1       8.3
Average Tariff (Constant Prices Mex$)
14.6      7.3        6.3       7.3        3.4          9.8       10.2



- 28 -
Project Sensitivity and Risks
7.11       The effects of variations on selected cost and benefit variables
were tested. This test was done for the city of Los Mochis where an incre-
mental rate of return of 17%, close to the average IRR for the whole pro-
ject, was considered a typical case.  The IRR would still be 11% with the
following switching values:
Variables
Tariffs (Revenues)                  - 30%
Incremental demand                  - 34%
Delay in realization of benefit        2 years
Construction costs                 +  36%
Operating costs                    + 165%
7.12      The most sensitive area is the changes in revenues.  Revenues are
not expected to substantially deviate from the projected figures for the
following reasons:
(a) projected tariff increases in real terms used in the finan-
cial projections are in line with increases required by pre-
vious loans (para. 6.14). With few exceptions, the required
tariff increases have been successfully implemented in pre-
vious loans (para. 2.19).   Despite the high inflation rate
in Mexico, the risk of non-compliance with the revenue cove-
nant is moderate because of the willingness of the Mexican
authorities to implement tariff levels reflecting the cost
of providing the service and the proposed revenue covenant
that would ensure timely tariff increases (paras. 2.19 and
6.17(d));
(b) incremental demand has been calculated on the basis of de-
creasing per capita consumption, and past evidence and pre-
sent patterns shown in similar cities in the country.
Actual demands are not expected to deviate significantly
from those projected; and
(c) Construction costs are not likely to exceed those pro-
jected.   Construction costs were based on the latest cost
information from recent bids (para. 5.16); also physical and
technical contingencies were calculated with care and are
considered satisfactory (para. 5.17).  Operating costs were
also calculated on past experience and take into account the
effect of projected inflation.
7.13        Overall project risks are average.   The highest risk is in the
implementation of the institutional development program in CEAPAS and in
the Regional Companies.   Experience with Loans 1186-ME and 1913-ME shows



- 29 -
that the technical and institutional programs have been subject to diffi-
culties in choosing consultants and that their success depends on the wil-
lingness of the beneficiary to implement the recommendations.  However, im-
provement in the organization of SEDUE should prove to be a great help in
diminishing this risk.
7.14         Another possible risk is that the project execution might be
delayed.   During the past year, preparation of new subprojects by SAHOP
slowed down, because of repeated changes within its administration and the
reorganization of the sector by the new Government (para. 2.07). The pos-
sible reduction in number of subprojects could affect the execution of the
proposed project if some BC Companies that were scheduled to be financed
under the FIFAPA scheme with the old onlending rate decide not to proceed
with the project under the expectation that the government would provide
Federal grants anyway.  This risk is limited as grants would be lower than
in previous administrations due to the new government policy in the sector,
as discussed in para. 2.14.  In addition, SEDUE has a long list of poten-
tial beneficiaries.
7.15       The project risks are more than compensated for by the benefits
accruing to the beneficiaries and to the sector with the introduction of a
pilot program scheme in the State of Sinaloa which could be replicated in
other states.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained as follows:
1. From the Federal Goverhment that it will:
(a)    provide funds to FIFAPA,  as needed  (para.  5.18)  (Draft
G.A., Section 2.02); and
(b)    through SEDUE to:
(i)    carry out the project and as the case may be, se-
lect the beneficiaries to be assigned the responsi-
bility to carry out the construction of a sub-
project in accordance to technical and administra-
tive criteria satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.08)
(Draft G.A. Section 3.01);
(ii)   ensure that DIGESAPA is properly staffed with qua-
lified professionals (para. 3.09) and that it will
be responsible for the supervision of the construc-
tion of all projects financed by FIFAPA (Draft
G.A., Section 4.02(a)(b));
(iii)  implement the institutional development program de-
vised by former SAHOP (para. 4.03) (Draft G.A.,
Section 3.01(c));



- 30 -
(iv)   carry out specific tariff studies within the frame-
work of the ongoing national tariff study in each
of the BC and Regional Companies, including a
schedule for implementation (para. 4.13) (Draft
G.A., Section 3.07);
(v)    present for Bank approval a list of monitoring in-
dicators for CEAPAS Regional Companies not later
than December 31, 1984 (para. 6.12) (Draft G.A.,
Section 3.05);
(vi)   continue carrying out its national training program
(para. 2.12) (Draft G.A., Section 4.03(a); and
(vii)  carry out  the revision of SEDUE's guidelines for
project preparation in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank by June 30, 1984
(para. 5.09) (Draft G.A., Section 4.03(b).
2. From BANOBRAS:
(a)    FIFAPA's financial statements would be audited each year
by qualified independent auditors (para. 3.07) (Draft
L.A., Section 4.02);
(b)    any subprojects that would be incorporated into the pro-
ject after loan negotiations, or which would replace pre-
viously selected subprojects, will be selected according
to the priority criteria agreed upon and in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.10) (Draft L.A.,
Schedule 2).  All new subprojects should be submitted not
later than December 31, 1984 (para. 5.11) (Draft L.A.,
Section 3.02(b));
(c)    semi-annual reports on the status of project implementa-
tion should be furnished to the Bank (para. 6.17) (Draft
L.A., Section 5.01(i));
(d)    a  completion  report  should  be  prepared  not  later  than
twelve months after the closing date (para 6.17) (Draft
L.A., Section 5.02); and
(e)    it will cause each beneficiary to produce semi-annual re-
ports to monitor its operation and finances (para. 6.12)
(Draft L.A., Section 5.01(ii)(a)).
8.02       As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan, the Federal
Government will have to:
(a) increase FIFAPA's equity in an amount equivalent to US$100.0
million (para. 3.04) (Draft L.A., Section 7.01(a)); and



- 31 -
(b) publish CEAPAS Bylaws to the satisfaction of the Bank
(para. 6.12) (Annex 23) (Draft L.A., Section 7.01(b)).
8.03        The following conditions for disbursement will be included in
each subloan:
(a)    the Bank will review and approve all subprojects for all
beneficiary companies and review and approve the design of
water or sewerage treatment plants (para. 5.21) (Draft
L.A., Section 3.03);
(b)    BANOBRAS/SEDUE will present to the Bank a list of all
contracts the beneficiaries intend to award for each sub-
project and they will make such modifications as the Bank
may suggest (para. 5.23) (Draft L.A., Schedule 1, para.
3(c)(i));
(c)    subsidiary loan agreements approved by the Bank, between
FIFAPA and each subborrower shall have to be signed before
December 31, 1984 (para. 6.12) under terms and conditions
specified in paras. 5.23, and 6.12, including the
condition that an autonomous company should have been
created for medium-size cities beneficiaries of the pro-
posed project (Draft L.A., Schedule 1, para. 3(c)); and
(d)    each subsidiary loan agreement should be secured by the
State Government (para. 6.12) (Draft L.A. Schedule 4,
para. B(ii) 1);
8.04       No disbursements should be made for subprojects in any Regional
Company under CEAPAS until:
(a)    consultants to carry out the Institutional Assistance Pro-
gram for CEAPAS and the Regional Companies have been hired
(para. 5.05) (Draft L.A., Schedule 1, para. 3(b)(i) and
Draft G.A., Section 3.02);
(b)    a scheme of fees to be charged to all Regional Companies,
acceptable to the Bank, has been established (para. 6.05)
(Draft L.A., Schedule 1, para. 3(b)(ii); and
(c)    the Regional Companies have been incorporated into CEAPAS,
satisfactorily organized and its key personnel has been
appointed (para. 4.06) (Draft L.A., Schedule 1, para.
3(b)(iii)3.
8.05       No retroactive financing would be required.  Providing the fore-
going conditions are met, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank
Loan  of  US$100.3 million.    The  loan would  be payable  over  15 years,
including a three year grace period.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Mexico Population Distributed by State
State                                                Population
(in thousands)
Aguascalientes                                                   503
Baja California                                                1,225
Baja California Sur                                              221
Campeche                                                         372
Coahuila                                                       1,558
Colima                                                           339
Chiapas                                                        2,096
Chihuahua                                                      1,933
Distrito Federal                                               9,373
Durango                                                        1,100
Guanajuato                                                     3,044
Guerrero                                                       2,174
Hidalgo                                                        1,516
Jalisco                                                        4,293
Mexico                                                         7,545
Michoacan                                                      3,048
Morelos                                                          931
Nayarit                                                          730
Nuevo Leon1                                                    2,463
Oaxaca                                                         2,518
Puebla                                                         3,279
Queretaro                                                        726
Quintana Roo                                                     209
San Luis Potosi                                                1,670
Sinaloa                                                        1,880
Sonora                                                         1,498
Tabasco                                                        1,149
Tamaulipas                                                     1,924
Tlaxcala                                                         547
Veracruz                                                       5,264
Yucatan                                                        1,034
Zacatecas                                                      1,145
Total                                                      67,307
Source:  Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto "Estadistica
Economica y Social por Entidad Federativa" - Nov./81



-33 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Distribution of Medium-Size Cities Population
(excluding Metropolitan Area)
Population                         N° of Cities                  Total Population
(thousands)
20.000 to 50.000                       157                             6,440
50.001 to 100.000                       34                             2,550
100.001 to 200.000                      26                             3,670
200.001 to 500.000                      26                             7,150
500.001 to 1.000.000                     4                             2,290
more -  1.000.000                       3                             6,950
250                            29.050



MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Water and Sewerage Service Levels in Mexico
Water Supply                       Sewerage
1970       1980       1981 1'   1970        1980       1981
1. Total Country
Population (million)                            48.1       67.4        69.3       48.1       67.4       69.3
Population served (million)                     23.8        38.1       40.5       17.6       24.8       26.0
Service level (%)                               49         56          58         37         37         38
2. Urrban Areas (Total)
Population (million)                            28.4       44.5        46.0       28.4       44.5       46.0
Population served (million)                     19.6        27.8       28.6       16.8       22.2       23.0
Service lev~el (x)                              69          62         62         59         50         50
2.1  Mexico City Metropolitan Area
Population (million)                             6.7       9.1          9.4        6.7        9.1        9.4
Population served (million)                      5.6        8.0         8.5        5.0        7.3        7.5
Service level (M)                               83         88          91         74         80         80
2.2  Other Urban Areas
Population (million)                            21.7        35.4       36.6       21.7       35.4       36.6
Population served (million)                      14.0       19.8       20.1       11.8       14.9       15.5
Service level (%)                               65         56          55         55         42         42.5
3. Rural Areas
Population (million)                            19.7        22.9       23.3       19.7       22.9       23.3
Population served (million)                       4.2       10.3       11.9        0.8        2.7        3.0
Service level (%)                               21         45          51          4         12         13
1/ Estimated.



MEXICO
MEDHJ*SZE CMES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
OgonIzaton t *
MCCaON G&E*4 Ot EMW L
.G"P    I   4AALLQZ                                                         A  V-I m
=2  1  UKrXe I +1 q > I q st s --                                     C1cq                                   ~A Io jdewl     A<  
NDRWS                oem                                             lt*snx*m 
UT
A"~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              V        VcW,Vc
P"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V~r&qVlVSTOjAn
W4CO ~ ~ Comao
Ten ative.V                                                                                                c,lcA~~~                                   ~*V2~



- 36 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Summary of the Law Creating the Sinaloa State Water
and Sewerage Board (CEAPAS)
1.         The decree which organized the Sinaloa State Water and Sewerage
B-ard (CEAPAS) (Comision Estatal de Agua y Alcantarillado de Sinaloa), as a
legal and autonomous entity, was published in the official state daily on
August 21, 1981.
2.         The decree set up the organization and administration of all en-
tities within the State responsible for the regulation, construction, ope-
ration and maintenance of the water and sewerage systems in the State of
Sinaloa. The Governor of the State is the highest authority in matters of
objectives and policies to be followed by the different state authorities
in the performance of their duties. The Decree also regulates the function
of the State Advisory Board (SAB) (Consejo Consultivo Estatal de Agua Po-
table y Alcantarillado), the State Water and Sewerage Board (CEAPAS) (Comi-
sion Estatal de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Sinaloa), the Regional
Water and Sewerage Companies (Juntas Regionales de Agua Potable y Alcanta-
rillado), and the relation of these entities with the State Public Works
Department and the municipalities of the State.
3.         The State Advisory Board (SAB) advises the Executive Branch of
the Government in all matters related to water and sewerage, to guarantee a
uniform policy in the State on design standards, priorities and administra-
tive matters. The Board is integrated by the Governor of the State who is
also its chairman and a representative of SAHOP, SARH, SSA and BANOBRAS.
4.           The Sinaloa State Water and Sewerage Board is an autonomous
public entity.   It is governed by a Board of Directors integrated by the
Governor of the State, a representative of the State Congress, a represen-
tative of each municipality within its jurisdiction, and one representative
of several trade and labor organizations.
5.        Its main functions are as follows:
a) to represent the State in discussions with all Federal enti-
ties involved in the water and sewerage sectors;
b) to assign priority, approve, obtain and negotiate the re-
quired financing for all water and sewerage projects, in co-
ordination with the Ministry of Public Works of the State;



- 37 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
c) to establish the conditions, norms, and to supervise the en-
actment of contracts for the construction and maintenance of
water and sewerage projects;
d) to monitor the use of any federal, state or municipal grant
for any water and sewerage system;
e) to advise the Regional Companies in all administrative and
financial matters;
f) to approve tariffs proposals for the Regional Companies;
g) to coordinate joint cooperation of two or more RWSCs in the
construction, operation and maintenance of any water and
sewerage system that require such action;
h) to supervise compliance by the Regional Companies of water
quality and sewerage discharge standards;
i) to give final approval to the operating and investment budget
of all Regional Companies;
j) to review and audit the financial statements of the Regional
Companies;
k) to maintain an updated inventory of all water and sewerage
systems in the State;
1) to approve new debts required by the RWSCs to carry out their
investment projects;
m) to prepare its annual budget for approval by the State
Authorities; and
n) to establish the norms and regulations of the revolving fund
that all Regional Companies should establish to cope with
their expansion needs, making sure that such fund is properly
used in accordance with the priorities set forth by the
State.
6.         The Sinaloa State Water and Sewerage Board appoints the General
Manager.
7.         The Sinaloa State Water and Sewerage Board capital is made of by
the contribution of the Regional Companies and any donation or grant that
it could receive from the State.



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
8.           For the administration, operation, maintenance, expansion and
improvements of the water and sewerage systems in the State of Sinaloa, the
law created five Regional Water and Sewerage Companies:  the Juntas Regio-
nales de Rio Fuerte, Rio Sinaloa, Rio Evora, Rio Baluarte and Rio Humaya.
Each Junta is a semi-autonomous entity with its own patrimony and indepen-
dent administration. These Juntas have jurisdiction on all matters related
to water and sewerage service within its borders.
9.        The administration of the Regional Companies is responsibility of
its Board of Directors which is formed by the Municipal Head of all Munici-
palities under its jurisdiction, by one representative of the Local State
Congressman, and by several representatives of trade and labor unions.
10.        The Regional Companies' main function and responsiblities are as
follows:
a) to manage, operate and maintain the water and sewerage sys-
tems under its jurisdiction;
b) to approve tariff increases, subject to approval of CEAPAS
and to bill and collect all charges;
c) to coordinate with CEAPAS in all aspects related to the serv-
ice of water and sewerage in the area under its jurisdiction;
d) to present to CEAPAS for its approval the investment plan for
all systems under its jurisdiction;
e) to collect connection charges, to promote the installation of
water services and sewerage discharges and to keep and update
the cadastre of users in all areas under its jurisdiction;
f) to pay CEAPAS the fees due as a contribution to cover the
administrative expenses of CEAPAS as well as all debt service
payments due for the financing provided to the region by
CEAPAS;
g) to perform all administrative duties required in the normal
development of its business;
h) to prepare its annual budget for the approval by CEAPAS; and
i) to obtain authorization from CEAPAS to contract debts with
repayment over one year necessary to finance the construc-
tion, operation and improvement of the systems under its
jurisdiction;



39                         ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
11.       The Government of the State appoints the General Managers of the
Regional Companies, from a list of candidates issued by the respective
Board of Directors.
12.       The Law establishes the power of attorney of the General Manager
and his duties.
13.         There is a Section of the Law detailing the rights and obliga-
tions of the user towards the utility.



MEXCI)C
TIIRD MEDII-tZS7E CITES AND S DllA STATE 1450 PW     SDR
Sinsaloa State Water Supply and Saverage COroqy
Institutional Cverviewe of Regional Cnmpanies
Regional C'opapRy of Ri  ray                                of Rio  erte            Regional Cftpany of Rio balarte            Regional Gompany of Rio Elvna             Regiori Crmpany of Rio Sinaloa
Institutional Arranements           OrgnizatIon is fully operational sioce   Now organization operational since          New organization operational since          l -v organization since March 1982. Nob  1kw organization since March 1982. No
Reptonler 1981, husever, only the SWI5    Janary 1982, only one osaicipality         January 1982 - one ranicipality            systeom hba  ten integrated to the         system ban been integrated to the
of OCliacan has been fntegrated to tle   (fn  Machis) has b2en integrated (3OM       (Mazatlan) hba  been integrated (51%        Region.                                   Region.
Region (7S% of total population).         total population).                         of total pmoplation).
Management                          Orpotnt and rotiated staff. Top            Qapetent staff. Satisfactory top           Satisfactory.                              Relng organiged.                           Being organized.
managreent in considered of beat qua-    manageent.
irty aoatiabie.
Prysical Arrangements               Satisfactory.                              Satisfactory.                             Satisfactory.                               Satisfactory.                              Satisfactory.
Management Infortation Systers      Satisfactory.                               Ilefnicest.                               Deficient.                                 N-ne,dstent.                               N-ereiatent.
Plasng Pmctior                      basic statistics are being collected;      In general n pleasing departrent is       Ther-  is on planning department.           Planning depareent ronedsatert.            Planning deparnrent non-existent.
very good financial plasing; planniog    -,rking. FInancial plrarieg  rudAientary.  basic statistics unreliable.
is done for engineering adn fioance.
bdget                              Fir-t badget prepaced for 192; infar-   First budget prepared for 1982; informs- First budget prepared for 1982; informs-  Badget for 1982 has not been prepsred            Budget for 1982 has not been prepared
ostion firm lonal syste ra  inadequate,  tion from local system wra iosdequate,   tion fron local systons sa  inadequste,        for lark of reliable informstion           for lock of reliable inforr-tion
therefore, amendtents to the ladget are  therefore, amentrents to the budget are  therefore, a dents to the  udrget are    available.                                      available.
Common,                                   coCOn,                                     coammo.
&agiaering                       S015 1is in charge of construction of    SMP is in csarge of construction of         SAHOP Is in charge of construction of      SAP1i  in charge of the construction   S ' Is in charge of the construction
large projects; engioeering for sml       large projects; engineering for emll    lare  projects; engineering for sall          of large projects.  Operaties of sys-    of large projects.  Operation of sys-
extensions osastisfactory; operation      extension is satisfactory; operation       extensasi is satisfactory; operation of   term ant aeste.  Maintaaere  not            tem  ret adeqpate. Mainteanore nt
of local systeos is adeyqate; radio       of local sysemt    is adepuate; radio      lonal systems is laeuate; radio network  adequate.                                    adequate.
net-ork is betog inetalld; msictenanoe   netr-x is being inastaled; anboternanne   is teing Installed;  i-ronce is
is adequate.                              is  dequate.                               adequate.
8illing end Collection             Sattifortory; cadastre of users in         Caastte of usera not aderpuate, unac-    Cadastral of eserm avilable, lwevoer         Prieritive, all blliUng hadande.           Primitloe, all billing hbadbnde.
place; rnaccounted-for water ranges       counted-for water ranges fwm 407-60i.   it is innalspete and has ant been up-         Metertng is limited to targest cities,    Meterirg is limited to largest cities,
fero  30% to 40%; billing is computer-    SiLling is  e1.                            dated.  Bilting is sn.  U        cotd-   hoereve, lack of laboratory facilities    he--ever, lark of laboratory facilities
ifod; metering In larger systems is                                                  for rater ranges fr-o  40Y0%.               for metering servioe askes anteriog        for ratering servie mres Amtering
adeqnate, in smaller syetems, -ater                                                                                              data unreiiable.                           data unrellable.
is ant properly reasoned.                                                                                                                                                                                           0
A-erge To-Aif  Level               To he iop-ood.                             To be imp-ed.                             To be impmved.                              To be improved.                            To be improved.
Accounting and financial           Reliable accounting oystem for Crimaan   Reliable acorunting  ystem oily in Inn    Reliable accounting system only in            No reliable accounting syster ailable.  No reliable accounting yntem available
Infona,tion                      only. No consolidated acceonting  -vail-   Mnchis. No consolidated acccunting        M-aotian. No consolidated accounting
able for the ,le  nany; reports           available on a regut  basis.  Oniy         available on a regular batsis.  aily
aveilsble nre fi-anlia starenets  dni   initial blar     and star-ments              initial btisx nol star-est ts
profit/loss statent.                      available.                                 available.
C,et Accrunting                    There is nore.                             Nane.                                     None.                                       Nose.                                      None.
Financial Management              CGopetent.                                  Satisfactory.                             Nnhe,                                       None.                                      Nosre.
P-rsonnel enyar-s,cot             PTercl   -ound  avai.lhble.  Iraining       Deficient.   ell trainiJg progra  to        uficiest.  Ibell training program  to     Defici ent.     l tracinig progro to       Rfitlent.  Uell tralcing pwgr-m  to
pwgroao is  rhed,-ld by iReFIP for the    be givno by SAdP t  tnhe are  of main-   be gioen by 501P in tho   erea of main-       be givn by SAb'O in the area of onto-    be given by Sf'dDP in the area of mno-
arem  of oiotontrce.                      tesasce. Purther triniig in other-         tensnae. Fartier trriniag in uther         terrmce. liar-ier training in other        trsnc.  Farther traing In other
areas sot yet scheduled.                  areas ant yet schedvied.                    areas ret yet scheduled.                   areas ant yet ehai ed.
Internal Audit                     Office already set up. At present,         Office already set up. At present,        Office already set up. At present, ail    None.                                        None.
all roperditr-es heon to be approved      all expenditur-es hee to be approved       errpenditures heo  to be approved by
by auditor.                               by arfitor.                                asuditor.
Elternea Audit                     1ndepavinet astersal auditing.             None.                                     Noe.                                       None.                                      Nne.
Pablic Relations                   A separate deparrtent for customer re-    A separate department for customet re-   A separate depsrrsent for customer re-        A separate depar-tment for custoer re-   A separate deparotment for cuatoer re-
ltire  and pblications h.s bees st        latios asd prblications h    be  ret    latio   asd poblirtio    h- baneen ant        -latie eel pablicatie  hba  been ant    latire and publcittios hba  bee set
up. At present, all information to        up. At present, all inforttion to          up. At present, all infotrttion to the    up. At present, all infor-ation to the   up. At present, all informatire to the
the peblic pertaining tariffs i re        the public pertaising tariffs are          public pertaining tariffs are hadiled       public pertaining tariffs are handled      ptblic pertaining tariffs are halerda
hendled by the office of the Co.ernor    handled by the office of the Governor    by the office of the Covernor in its           by the office of the Covernor in Its       by the office of tie invernor in its
in Its Public Relations Departtent.       in its Pablic Relations Saparteant.        Public Relations Deporreont.                Public Relations Repartment.               Public Relations  eprtnent.
Ibsaroation:  ihe prposed project contempiates a large institutional improovat
program for the CfAPAS nd eanh of the fion Regional Clapanie.I



T'RD MEDIUM SIZE CI1IES AND SINA, SE WATER PROIEC
Main Characteristics of Water and Sewerage Services in Appraised Cities (1981)
CEAPAS - Cities                                 MEDILM-SIZE Cities
Units    Culiacan   Los Mbchis  Mzatlan   Topolobampo       Cblaya     ColiTna     Cd.Q=zmn  Tapachua
Estimated 1981 population         Tlousands    390.0        133.9       210.7        8.2          98.0       107.8        110.0         95.0
Population Served
Water                              %          71          88         72          63            70          80           60           66
Sewerage                           %          32         79          72           0            67          76           49          40
Nunber of connections
Water total                   lTousands       46.2        20.7       30.3         0.9          11.5        14.4         11.5         11.0
Metered                               x          95          98         91          20            12          98           98           91
House discharges                  Thousands      20.5        18.7        30.3        -            11.0        13.7          9.4          6.7
Water Supply Pipes                   Kn          72.3       120.2      330.2        14.5         117.4       146.7         79.4         94.1
Water Pipes/Connection             Nts/c         15.6         5.8        10.9       16.1          10.2        10.2          6.9         8.5
Storage Volumne                      m3        2500       4500       19500         200          1000        7380         4850        1200
Storage Vol/1000 connect.          m3/t.c        54        217         643         200            86.9       512         421          109
Sewerage Pipe                        YM                                 24.3         -           126.8       106.9         71.5
Sewerage Pipe/Cornection            m3/c
Sewerage Treatment                -             no          no          no          no            no         no          yes 1         no
Production                       m3/month/c      32         40.8        37.8        34.2          35          26           32          44
Unaccounted-for water                %           32          38         56          40            44          39           39          41
Staff/1000 connection                1b./tc       5.7        10.0        6.0        11.0           5.2         4.3          3.2         6.7
1/ Cd. (Gumn has tw sewerage treatment plants but not in service.



- 42 -
A1NNK 7
MElO)
THMI  MEDllM SIZE CIEMS AND SINILAU1 Sg4E WAlE PRUFC
lbpulation and Demud Projectios
Urban                        naccunted-for           Water lmrxd           Per Capita    Per Capita
CM1Y         FPolation  Service 1aM1-Z            Water            Million M3/Year         Production   Qamution
(IBuands)   Water       _r_ 1                      Production   (2nmption    l.c.d.           l.c.d.
CEAPAS
Qiacan
1981                  390.0       71         29          32               23.4         17.7         235             178
1985                  500.6       88         64          25              35.4          26.6         197             147
1990                  595.4       90         80          25              42.2          31.6         197             147
1995                  613.3       90         80          25              43.5          32.6         197             147
IDs MDChIS
1981                  133.9       88         79          38               13.9         10.1         328             238
1985                  180.8       92         81          32               21.0         14.3         303             238
1990                  212.6       95         85          25               23.7         17.8         299             238
1995                  218.9       95        85           25              24.5          18.4         299             238
Mzatln
1981                  210.7       72         72          56               21.4         13.7         392             251
1985                  259.3       86         80          25               24.7         18.5         310             230
1990                  331.9       95         85          25              34.1          25.6         299             230
1995                  423.2       95         85          25              35.2          26.4         299             230
'IbpDlobano
1981                    8.2       63          0          40               0.6           0.4         322             215
1985                   10.3       98         85          25               0.9           0.7         255             198
1990                   13.8       95         85          25                1.1          0.9         233             190
1995                   17.4       95         85          25                1.4          1.1         233             190
MILEDfM SIZE
Celaya
1981                   OQ.n       70         67          40                7.2          4.s         291             194
1985                  115.6       90         76          30               9.6           6.8         230             163
1990                  140.0       95         80          25               11.5          8.6         230             170
1995                  171.1       95         80          25               14.0         10.5         230             170
ColiM
1981                  107.8       80        80           44               6.6           4.6         212             148
1985                  124.9       90         90          30               10.0          7.0         243             164
1990                  150.0       95         98          25               11.8          8.8         226             172
1995                  171.9       95         95          25               13.5         10.1         226             172
Cd. Qmzn
1981                  107.7       55         49          39               9.5           6.7         307             189
1985                  127.5       90        80           25               10.3          7.8         250             189
1990                  157.4       90         85          25               12.7          9.6         250             189
1995                  194.3       90         85          25               15.7         12.5         250             189
Taachula
1981                   95.0       66         40          41               8.2           5.8         363             257
1985                  108.3       95         80          25               11.3          8.5         290             218
1990                  127.4       95         80          25               12.5         10.0         272             218
1995                  150.0       95         80          25               14.7         11.8         272             218



ANNEX 8
- 43 -                        Page 1of 6
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Suggested Terms of Reference for the Institutional Development Program
A.         Introduction
1.01       SEDUE, BANOBRAS, and CEAPAS authorities have agreed on the need
to undertake a institutional development program for CEAPAS and the five
Regional Companies under CEAPAS coordination.  This would be a pilot pro--
gram which could be replicable in other states.  Attachment I presents a
timetable of consultants' activities.
B.        General Objectives
1.02       The general objectives of the institutional development program
are:
(a) to analyze the present organization and operating perform-
ance of the companies as well as the needs and the socio-
economic aspects of the water supply and sewerage sector in
Sinaloa State;
(b) to create a model state company applicable to other Mexican
state water and sewerage companies which will allow improve-
ment of efficiency of sector operations;
(c) to help CEAPAS and the Regional Companies to make the neces-
sary changes in their current organizations, procedures, in-
formation systems and overall operational practices;
(d) to implement consultants recommendations agreed upon by
BANOBRAS/SEDUE/CEAPAS and the World Bank; and
(e) to create in CEAPAS a project evaluation unit which would be
in charge of defining the most appropriate technology and
service standards for the communities in the State, to pre-
pare investment programs compatible with short-term needs
and which can he upgraded to meet long-term objectives, and
to supervise the constrtuction of the projects.
C. Specific Tasks
1.03      The consultants, in coordination with the CEAPAS and the regional
offices staff assigned to this task, should:



- 44 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 6
(a) review the current organization and distribution of func-
tions in CEAPAS and the Regional Companies;
(b) identify institutional constraints, in particular:
(i)    the adequacy of CEAPAS' pay scales to attract and re-
tain staff of the qualifications required to fill the
key posts in the organization structure;
(ii)   whether the existing policies for promotion and merit
increase offer sufficient incentive and reward; and
(iii) whether the management system is best oriented to
secure efficient working conditions and encourage
initiative, and whether decision making is delegated
to the lowest level commensurate with the maintenance
of adequate control.
(c) review existing accounting policies, records and methods of
collecting and processing data.   Detailed systems analysis
is not expected, but the consultants should indicate in what
areas  further  works  would be  required.   The  consultants
should, in particular, study the following areas:
(i)    the best accounting system suitable to the entities'
needs for information and quality control;
(ii)   whether fixed assets are adequately recorded and the
appropriateness of existing policies of revaluation,
and depreciaton, if any;
(iii) adequacy of existing procedures for customer billing
and collection;
(iv)   adequacy of existing  procedures  for  recording  and
controlling inventories;
(v)    adequacy of existing  procedures  for accounting and
setting suppliers' accounts:
(vi)   the adequacy of existing procedures for payroll;
(viii) existing procedures to produce timely and accurate
financial statements and to provide interim financial
information required by management; and



- 45 -                  ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 6
(ix)   procedures   followed  for  financial  planning  and
budgetary control.
(d)  carry out a survey of the users (state population) to define
short-term needs taking into account such aspects as ability
to pay, desirable service levels and local tastes and
preferences;
(e) assess the levels and quality of service in the state using
a representative sample of communities.
1.04       On the basis of their understanding of the objectives of CEAPAS,
the current regional sector configuration, the overall requirements of the
water supply and sanitation sector in the state and the general principles
adopted at national and state level to achieve the viability of the sector,
the consultants should develop an appropriate organizational structure. In
presenting their recommendations, the consultants should:
(a)  make specific proposals for the most appropriate form of or-
ganization within the existing legal framework of CEAPAS,
giving consideration to the adoption of corporate status for
the entire Organization;
(b)  prepare the complete organization chart of CEAPAS and its
regional offices and description of the functions and re-
sponsibilities of each department proposed;
(c)  define the most appropriate relationship between the organi-
zation and concerned government agencies, including channel
of coordination, consultation and liaison both at national
and regional levels.  The consultants should pay particular
attention to interface with those agencies responsible for
public health, pollution control and provision of investment
funds;
(d)  evaluate, on the basis of the proposed organization chart
and the job description of the key managerial  posts,  the
shortages and supluses of skilled personnel required to im-
plement the proposed change.   Consultants should also pre-
pare a 5 year staffing plan for the proposed organization.
(e)  develop a long-term training program which will cover the
following areas:
(i)    management;



- 46 -                  ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 6
(ii)   technical   matters,    including    operations    and
maintenance;
(iii)  financial, accounting and commercial procedures; and
(iv)   information systems.
Consultants should explore the posibilities of training by
local and national institutions, and when training can not
be provided by these institutions they should develop pro-
posals for training programs tailored to the need of the
companies and estimate the local and foreign costs of the
training program;
(f)  propose remedial actions  to the institutional  constraints
and to the orderly implementation of the staffing plan;
(g)  propose the means by which CEAPAS should secure the capital
funds it requires. This analisis should include a review of
available sources of funds; priorities for allocating scarce
funds; the level at which authority for borrowing should be
placed; and mechanisms for control of the debt service;
(h)  propose an information flow system including for each level
of responsibility:
(i)    required input;
(ii)   degree of processing;
(iii)  required output; and
(iv)   destination of output.
The consultants should clearly identify the link between the
decisions or actions to be taken by each user and the input
he receives and requires from the system, and the output the
user produces for it;
(j)  design  appropriate  performance  indicators  by  which  the
achievements of the organization may be monitored. The per-
formance  indicators  should  cover  the  three  levels:   na-
tional, regional and local;
(k)  design  or  adapt  appropriate  forms,  when  necessary  or
convenient, to record and handle the information aiming at
maximum uniformity and standardization;



- 47                    ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 6
(1) analyze the viability of comnputerizing the information;
(m)  propose a plan for the implementation of their proposals.
The plan should be accompanied by a timetable showing the
stages and sequence in which the institutional changes are
to be introduced and identification of resources (financial
or otherwise) required for its successful execution   which
should not exceed 24 months except for the training of per-
sonnel. In particular, it shall itemize any further studies
or consultant services which may be required, together with
an estimate of the man-months and cost involved;
(n) prepare drafts of new or amended local legislation necessary
to implement their proposals, if the consultants' proposals
involve changes in exiting laws and regulation affecting the
by laws, powers and responsibilities of CEAPAS and the
Regional Compantes;
(o) compile all documents prepared so they may serve as a model
for other state companies in the country.
1.05        The consultants should discuss with CEAPAS/SEDUE/BANOBRAS,  the
financial objectives of the CEAPAS and the Regional Companies and on this
basis propose the financial policies to be adopted by the proposed organi-
zation. Central to this question is the degree of financial autonomy which
would be appropriate to the CEAPAS as a whole, and to each Regional
company.  It is envisaged that an important part of the studies leading to
these proposals will be an appraisal of the revenue generating capability
of the organization and their adequacy to cover operating and maintenance
cost, depreciation and debt service payments and contribution to future
investment.
1.06      The consultants should prepare users' manuals for the implementa-
tion of their recommendations agreed upon with CEAPAS/BANOBRAS/SEDUE and
the Bank.  The consultants should also prepare terms of reference for any
future studies.



- 48 -
ANNEX 8
Attachment 1
Page 6 of 6
Institutional Development Program to CEAPAS
Timetable
Activities/year                      1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Select Consultants
Diagnosis                                                *
Design Model Organizational
Structure
Discussion of Recommendations                        ._ .
Manuals of Implementation                                                   *
Terms of Reference
* Reports to be presented to the Bank for comments.



THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE NATER PROJECT
SINALOA STATE WATER COMPANY
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Quantita                                                    (Mex t Millio,,)                  Phj,
----------------------------------------------  Unit Cost   ---------------------------------------------- Cont. For.   Gross   Susharv
Unit     1984    1985    1986   1907 1988 1989 Total   (Mex $ '000)  1984    1985    1986   1987 1988 1989 Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
1. INVESTKENT COSTS
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPKENT PROGRAM
INTERNATIONAL CONSULTANT              Man/Month       24       14      15    5    -    -        58           530    12.7      7.4      8.0  2.7    -    -    30.7       0  0.85      0.15       IC
LOCAL CONSULTANT                      Man/lMonth      36       36      36   36    -    -       144       244.828     8.8      8.8      8.8  8.8    -    -    35.3       0  0.29      0.15       LC
FIELD SURVEY                             Lot           I        -             -    -    -        1    9,266.824       9.3       -        -    -    -    -      9.3      0  0.42      0.15       FS
OFFICE SURvEY                            Lot           I        1       -    I    -    -         3    4.633.412       4.6     4.6        -  4.6    -    -    13.9       0  0.42      0.15       aS
IMPLEIENTATION PERIOD                    No            -        -       -    I    -    -         1   23,167.059         -       -        - 23.2    -    -    23.2       0  0.42      0.15      IMP
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                                             35.4    20.9    16.8 39.3    -    -   112.3
B. SUPPLY
PICK UP -1/2 Tn.                         No           10       1S       -    -    -    -        25        834.75      8.3    12.5        -    -    -    -    20.9       0  0.85      0.15    PU50
PICK UP -3/4 Tn.                         No           10       15             -    -    -       25         1,113    11.1    16.7         -    -    -    -    27.8       0  0.85      0.15    PU75
PICK UP -3 Tn.                           No            8        7       -    -    -    -        15       1,335.6    10.7      9.3        -    -    -    -    20.0       0  0.85      0.15   PU300
TiOGRPWHY                                Lot           5        -       -               -        5    5,546.471    27.7         -        -    -               27.7      0   0.8      0.15      TOP
LABORATORY E0UPIIET                      Lot           2        1       2    -    -              5    1,663.941       3.3     1.7      3.3    -                 8.3     0   08      0.15       LB   .
C11MICATION EQUIPMENT                    Lot           3        2        -    -       -          5   33.278.824    99.8    66.6          -    -    -    -   166.4       0   0.8      0.15       Co '
EXCAVATOR                                No            2        -       -                -       2        22,260    44.5        -        -    -    -    -    44.5       0  0.85      0.15       EX
Sub-Total SUPPLY                                                                                                       205.6   106.8      3.3    -    -    -   315.7
C. HEALTH EDUCATION PROGRAM
LOCAL COINS1LTANT                     Man/Month       12        3       3    1    -    _        19       244.828      2.9     0.7      0.7  0.2    -    -       4.7     0  0.29      0.15       LC
ItLEIMNTATION PERIOD                     No            I        I       -    -                   2       463,341     0.5      0.5        -    -    -    -      0.9      0  0.42      0.15      IMP
AUDIOVISUAL E0UIPMENT                    No            5        -       -    -    -    -         5       277.324      1.4       -        -    -    -    -       1.4     0   0.8      0.15       AV
VEHICLES                                 No            5        -       -    -    -    -         5        B34.75      4.2       -        -    -    -    -       4.2     0  0.85      0.15    PU50
Suo-Total HEALTH EDUCATION PROGRAN                                                                                       9.0      1.2     0.7  0.2                11.1
D. CULIACAN
WELL AND METER                           No            -      0.5     0.5    -    -    -         1   76,301.176         -    38.2    38.2    -    -    -    76.3        0   0.5      0.15       WE
TRANSMISSION LINE                        Km           45    43.9    74.7    -    -    -   163.6    30416.471   153.7   150.1   255.2    -    -    -   559.0             0   0.5      0.15       TR
PUIIPING STATION                         No            -        I       -    -    -    -         I    7,311.247         -     7.3        -    -    -    -       7.3     0   0.5      0.15       PS
REGULATION                               No            -      0.5     0.5    -    -    -         I    3.074.824         -     1.5      1.5    -    -    -       3.1     0   0.5      0.15       ST
POTABILIZATION                           No            -        I       -    -    -    -         I    2,098.024         -     2.1        -    -    -    -       2.1     0   0.5      0.15       CH
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                      Km.           -       24      32    -    -    -        56    2t152.376         -    51.7    68.9    -    -    -   120.5        0   0.5      0.15       DN
HOUSE CONNECTIONS                        No        4,927   4,927   4,927    -    -    -  14,781           21.182   104.4   104.4   104.4    -    -    -   313.1         0   0.5      0.15       HC
TRUNK SEWER AND INTERCEPTORS             Km.           7      7.6     7.7    -    -    -    22.3    7,060.706    49.4    53.7    54.4    -    -    -   157.5            0   0.5      0.15       TS
SEWER PIPES                              Km.          51       64      65    -    -    -       180    21277.647   116.2   145.8   148.0    -    -    -   410.0          0   0.5      0.15       SP
HOUSE DISCHARGES                         Mo       10,765  15,000  159000    -    -    -  40,765           20.043   215.8   300.6   300.6    -    -    -   817.1         0   0.5      0.15       HD
SEWERAGE TREATMENT PLANT                 No            -        -       -    -    -    -         -                  68.3    68.3    70.4    -    -    -   206.9         0   0.5      0.15       TP
LOCAL CONSULTANT                      Man/Month      430      430     421    -    -    -   1.281         244.828   105.3   105.3   103.1    -    -    -   313.6         0  0.29      0.15       LC
Sub-Total CULIACAN                                                                                                     813.0 1,028.9 1,144.6    -    -    - 2,986.5                                ;,  i
oo z
o So
'a



MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM SIZE-CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
SINALOA STATE WATER COMPANY
Detailed Cost Table
E. LOS HOCHrS
RtEGULATION                                No-                            -     - -  -  -                                6.4      6.4        -    -    -    -    12.9        0  0,5       0.15s       ST
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                        Km           43    43.6         -    -    -    -    86.6    2,049.882    88. 1    89.4            -    -    -    -   177.5        0   0,5      0.5         118D
HOUISE CONNECTIONS                        No        3,300   2,230          -    -    -    -   5,530          21,182    69.9    47.2          -    -    -    -   117.1        0   0,5      0,15       KC
LABORTORY EQUIPMENT                        No                     I        -    -    -    -         1    1,774.871         -      1.8        -    -    -    -       1.8      0   0,8      0.15        LB
LEAK DETECTION                            No                      I                 -               1    4,448,269                4,4        -     -    -           4.4      0   0.0      0.15       LI
TRLMS SEWER AND INTERCEPTORS               Ks           32       49        -    -     -    -       81    2,376.725    76.1   116.5           -    -    -    - 192.5          0   0,5      0.15        TS
SEVER PIPES                               Km          13.1    46.3              -    - -         59,4    2,414.306    31.6   111.8           - -    -    -        143.4      0   0.5      0,15        SP
HOUS  DISCWHARS                            No        2,500   2,480         -    -     -    - 4,980           20,043    50.1    49.7          -    -        -       99.8      0   0.5      0.15        HD
LOCAL CONSUILTANT                      I1aif,'Noth     200      231        -    -     -    -      431       244.828    49.0    56.6          -    -    -    - 105,5          0  0.29      0.15       LC
Sub-Total LOS MOCHIS                                                                                                      371.2   483.8         -     -    -     - 855.0
F. TOPOLOBAMO
TRANMISSION LIKE                          Km           6.4        -       -     -     -    -      6.4    19822.118    11.7          -        -    -     -    -     11.7      0   0,5      0.15        TR
PIBPINS STATION                            No            -        -       -     -    -     -        -                   23.8                           -           23.8      0   0,5      0,15        PS
REGUATION                                 NO            1I                    -                     1         5,808      5.8        -        -     -    -    -      5,8      00.5s        0.15        ST
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                       Km            13        -             -     -    -       13    2,049.882    26.6          -        -    -     -    -     26.6      0   0.5      0.15       08
HOUS  COWECTION                           NO           409        -        -    -    -     -      409        21.182      8.7        -        -    -     -           8.7      0   0.5      0.15       NC
TRUNK SEWER ANDINTERCEPTORS               Ks             4        -       -     -    -     -        4    5,921.882    23.7          -        -    -     -    -     23.7      0   0.5      0.15        TS c
PUMIPING STATION                          No             -        -        -    -          -        -                   13.5        -        -    -     -    -     13.5      0   0.5      0.15        PS
SEWER PIPES                               Km            91        -        -    -          -       91    1,366.588   124.4          -        -    -     -    - 124.4         0   0.5      0.15        SP
HODJSE DISCHARGES                         NO         1,537        -        -    -    -    -   1,537          20.043    30.8         -        -    -     -          30.8      0   0.5      0.15        HD
LOCAL CONSUTANT                        Nan/NMoth       110        -             -    -    -       110       244,828    26.9         -        -     --              26.9      0  0.29       0.15       IC
Sub-Total TOPOOBAMPO                                                                                                      295.8        -        -    -    -    -   295.8
G., MAZATLAN
NELL AND MIEER                            Nao                                                                           11.5    15.3    11.4    -    -    -    38.2          0  0,5        0.15       AE
REGULATION                                NO                      -        -    -     -    -        -                   11.0    11,0         -    -    -    -    22.0        0  0.5       0.15        ST
TRANSMITION LINE                          Kmk            a        9       -    -    -    -         17    2F240.066    17.9    20.2           -    -    -    -    38.1        0   0.5      0.15        TR
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                        Km           50       70      41    -    -    -        161    2,515,661   125.8   176.1   103.1    -    -    -   405.0            0   0.5      0.15       DN
HOUS  CONNECTION                          No        5~237   50707   7,240    -    -           10,184         19.246   100.8   109.8   139.3    -    -    -   2500            0   0,5      0.15        HC
NTERS                                    No        2~500                 -    -    -          2,500          5.761    14.4         -        -    -    -           14.4      0  0.5       0.15        MT
TRUNK SCWER AND INTERCEPTORS              Kmi           10      2,1      19        -    -          61    4P606.541    02.9   110,6    87.5    -                   201.0      0   0.5      0.15       TS
PUMPING STATIDN                            No            -        -        -    -    -    -         -                   11.6    11.6    15,5    -    -             38.7      0   0.5      0.15        Ps
SENER PIPES                                Ka           14       15      14    -           -       43    2,774,174    38.8    41,6    38.8    -                   ll-11.3    I   0.5      0.11        SF
NOOJSE DISCHARGES                         No        5,237   5,707   7.240       -     -    -  18,184         18.221    95.4   104,0   131,9    -    -        - 321.3         0   0.5      0.15        HDl
PRESION TRUNK SEWER                       Kmk            6        6        6    -          -       18   12,123.915    72.7    72.7    72.7    -         -    - 218.2         0   0.5      0.15       TI
LEON DETECTION                            No            1I            -            -                I    5.041.742       5.0        -        -    - -  -            5.0      0   0.8      0.15        LD
CLEANING SEWER EQIUIPMENT                  NO           1I                     -   -                1   13,311,529    13.3          -        -    -           -    13.3      0   0.8       0.15       Cs
LOCAL CONSULTANT                      Nlan/Month       360      360     360                     1 -  0hO0   244.828    88.1    88.1    88.1    -        -     - 264.4        0  0.29       0.15       LC
Sub-Total MAZATLAN                                                                                                        689.5   761.0   688.5    -    -    - 2,139.0
Total INWESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                     2,419.5 2P402.5 1,853.9 39.5        -    - 6t715.5                                    r
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                        2,419.5 2,402.5 1,853.9 39.5        -    - 6,715.5 
V.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



- 51 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 5
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Sinaloa State Water Board
Construction Program - Proposed Works
1. CULIACAN
1.1    Water Supply
(a) Construction of a deep well and provision of master meter and
pumping equipment;
(b) construction of 6.2 km of transmission line;
(c) construction of one storage tank with a capacity of 300 m3;
(d) improvements in the distribution system and construction of
46.6 km of pipes; and
(e) construction of 5300 metered house connections.
1.2    Sewerage
(a) Construction of 22.3 km of trunk sewers and interceptors;
(b) construction of 99 km of sewage pipes;
(c) construction of 11.187 house discharges;
(d) construction of the first stage of oxidation ponds plant in-
cluding a laboratory for physico-chemical and bacteriological
analysis; and
(e) provision of a cleaning sewer equipment.
2. LOS MOCHIS
2.1    Water Supply
(a) Construction of one storage tank with a capacity of 7,600 m3
(b) improvements in the distribution system and construction of 44
km of pipes;



- 52 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 5
(c) construction of 5530 metered house connections;
(d) provision of a complete laboratory for physico-chemical and
bacteriological analysis of water and sewage; and
(e) provision of leak detection equipment.
2.2    Sewerage
(a) Construction of 29 km of trunk sewers and interceptors;
(b) improvements in the sewer network and construction of 32.1 km
of sewer pipes;
(c) construction of 4980 house discharges; and
(d) provision of a cleaning sewer equipment.
3.  TOPOLOBAMPD
3.1    Water Supply
(a) Construction of 6.4 km of transmission line from the new treat-
ment plant to the pumping station and to the storage tank;
(b) construction of a pumping station;
(c) construction of a storage tank with a capacity of 276 m3;
(d) improvements in the distribution system and construction of 13
km of pipes; and
(e)  construction of 410 metered house connections  and 50 stand-
pipes;
3.2    Sewerage
(a) Construction of 3.4 km of trunk sewers and interceptors;
(b) construction of a sewerage pumping station;



- 53 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 5
(c) construction of i9.7 km of sewer pipes; and
(d) construction of 1537 house dicharges.
4. MAZATLAN
4.1    Water Supply
(a) Improvements to existing wells including provision of master
meters and construction of 4 new deep wells;
(b) construction of one storage tanks with a combined capacity of
5,000 m3
(c) construction of 98.3 km of distribution pipes; and
(d) construction of 18,200 metered house connections.
(e) provision of 2,500 meters.
4.2    Sewerage
(a) Construction of 61 km of trunk sewers and interceptors, and 18
km of pression trunk sewers;
(b) construction of a sewage pumping station;
(c) construction of 43 km of sewer pipes;
(d) construction of 12,730 house discharges, and
(e) provision of equipment for: (i) complete water and sewerage
laboratory; (ii) leak detection; and (iii) cleaning sewer.



54-                                                                       ANNEX 1O
Page I of 5
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJCT
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
oantitot                                                      (1ex 5 Million)                      Phs.
----------------------------___---------  Unit Cost  ----------------------- Cont, For.   Dross   Soumars
Unit     1984   1985   1986  1987 1988 1989 Total   (Hex I '000)  1984    1985    1986    1987   1988   1989   Total   Rate  Exch. Tox Rate Aecount
1. INVESTMENT CISTS
A. CELAYA - GURNAJIATO
WELL AND METER                          No           I       -      -       1   28,869.176    28.9                        -        -      -       -      -     28.9      0   0.5      0.15      SE
TRANSMISSION LINE                       Ka           3    3.5                             6.5    5.523.294    16.6    19.3          -      -       -      -     35.9      0   0.5      0.15       TR
REGULATION                               No        0.5    0.5       1                        2   12,356.235      6.2     6.2    12.4       -       -      -      24.7     0   0.5      0.15       ST
POTABILIZATION                          No           2       9      5                       16    2,717.647      5.4    24.5    13.6       -       -      -     43.5      0   0.5      0.15       CH
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEN                      Ks       11.4      10   11.4                     32.8    1,162.873    13.3    11.6    13.3        -       -      -      38.1     0   0.5      0.15       ON
H1USE CONNECTION                         No      2,000  2.130  2.136                -   6.266        15.146    30.3    32.3    32.4         -      -      -      94.9     0   0.5      0.15       KC
METERS                                  No       4,910  4,910  4,912                -  14,732         4.457    21.9    21.9    21.9        -       -      -      65.7     0   0.5      0.15       MT
LEAK DETECTION                          No           -       1      -                              6 6I 694.59     -     6.7        -      -       -      -      6.7      0   0.8      0.15       LD
TRUNK SEWER AND INTERCEPTORS            Ka           8      14      4                      26    1.110.353       8.9    15.5      4.4      -       -      -     28.9      0   0.5      0.15       TS
SEWER PIPES                             Ks          10      13     13                       36    1,628.518    16.3    21.2    21.2        -       -      -     58.6      0   0.5      0.15       SP
HOUSE DISCHARGES                        No       2000  2.10        -    -              4,100        14.349    28.7    30.1         -      -       -      -     58.8      0   0.5      0.15       HD
SEWERAGE TREATMENT PLANT                Lot          -       -      -                        -                  44.6    44.6    59.5       -       -      -    148.B      0   0.5      0.15       TP
LOCAL CONSULTANT                     Man/Month    340    340    340    -    -    -   1020           244.828    83.2    83.2    83.2        -       -      -    249,7      0  0.29      O.I5      LC
Sub-Total CELAYA - GUANAJthATO                                                                                    304.2   317.2   261.8        -      -      -    883.2
B. CDLIMA - COLIMA
WELL AND METER                          No           1       1      -                        2   13,438.118    13.4    13.4         -      -       -      -     26.9      0   0.5      0.15      ME
TRANSlISSION LINE                       Ks           7      11   20.6      3-       -     8.6    4,555.294    31.9    50.1    93.8         -       -      -    175.8      0   0.5      0.15      TR
REGULATION                               No          -       I      -    -          -        1   15,749.929        -    15.7        -      -       -      -      15.7     0   0.5      0.15      ST
POTA8ILIZATION                           No          3       2      2       -       -        7    9.131.294    27.4    18.3    18.3        -       -      -     63.9      0   D.5      0.15      CH
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                     Km        22.5   15.4    8.1    -    -           45.9    1.867.671    41.9    28.7    15.1         -       -      -     85.8      0   0.5      0.15      DM
HOUSE CGNNECTION                         No      1,000  2.025  2,025        -    -      5.050        21.182    21.2    42.9    42.9        -       -      -    107.0      0   0.5      0.15       HC
METERS                                  No       3,750-   -         -                   3,750         6.305    23.6        -        -      -       -      -     23.6      0   0.5      0.15      MT
LEAK DETECTION                          No           -       I      -          -             1    5,546.471        -     5.5        -                     -      5.5      0   0.8      0.15      LD
LABORATORY EQUIPMENT                    Lot          I 0           -       -1    4,437.176                       4.4       -        -      -       -      -      4.4      0   0.8      0.15      LB
TRUlNK SEWER PIPES AND INTERCEPTGRS     Km         6.4       7      8       -       -    21.4        11.616    74.3    81.3    92.9        -       -      -    248.6      0   0.5      0.15      TS
SEWER PIPES                             K           ID      10     10             -        30    2,277.647    22.8    22.8    22.8         -       -      -     68.3      0   0.5      0.15      SP
PUMPING STATION                          No          -       I      -    _    _              1    7.060.706        -     7.1        -              _      _       7.1     0   0.5      0.15      PS
HUOSE DISCHARGES                         No          -  1,840  1,800        -       -   3,640        20.043        -    36.9    36.1       -       -      -     73.0      0   0.5      0.15       HD
CLEANING SEWER EQUIPJMENT               No           1       -      _    _1                        15.088.4    15.1        -        -      -              _      15.1     0   0.8      0.15      CS
LOCAL CONSULTANT                      an/lMonth    100    154    208             -        462       244.828    24.5    37.7    50.9        -       -      -    113.1      0  0.29      0.05      LC
Sub-Total COLUAN - COLIMA                                                                                         300.6   360.5   372.8       -       -      -  1,033.9
C. Cd.GUZlN-JALISCO
iELL AND KETER                           No          I       I      _                        2   51,247.05?    51.2    51.2         -      -       -      -    102.5      0   0.5      0.15      WE
TRANSMISSION LINE                       Ks           2       4      1    _                   7    4,555.294      9.1    18.2      4.6      -       -      -     31.9      0   0.5      0.15      TR
REGULATION                               No          I       -      -    _1   17,993.412    18.0                           -        -      -       -      -      18.0     0   0.5      0.15      ST
POTABILIZATION                           No           I      I      _                        2    3.261.176      3.3     3.3        -      -       -      -       6.5     0   0.5      0.15       CH
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                      Km         20      30     30    -    -             80    2i049.882    41.0    61.5    61.5        -       -      -    164.0      0   0.5       .15      ON
HOUSE CONNECTION                         No        870  4,050  4.050       9-    -      8978         20.395    17.7    82.6    82.6        -       -      -    182.9      0   U.S      8.15      ME
LEAK BETECTIDN                           No           I      -      -    _1    5654,471                          5.5       -        -      -       -      -       5.5     8   0.8      4.15       LD
LA8ONATORY EQUIPMENT                     Lot         -       I                              1    2,279.599        -     2.3        -              _      _       2.3     0   0.8      0.15      LB
TRUl  SEYER PIPES AND INTERCEPTORS       Km          8      11      -                       19   14.121.412   113.0   155.3         -      -       -      -    268.3      0   8.5      O.1S      TS
SEWER PIPES                              Km          6      to     11    -    -             27    2.277.647    13.7    22.8    25.1        -       -      -     61.5      0   U.S      8.15       SP
HOUSE DISCHARGES                         No      1,508  3,000  3.510    -    -          8.010        20.043    30.1    60.1    70.4        -       -      -    160.5      0   8.5      0.15      HD
CLEANING SEWER EQUIPMENT                 No          I       _      _                       1     15,086.4    15.1        -        -      -       -      -      15.1     O   0.8      0.15      CS
LOCAL CONSULTANT                      Man/Month   100    150    140            -          390       244.828    24.5    36.7    34.3        -       -      -     95.5      0  0.29      0.15      LC
Sub-Total Cd.GUZLAN-JALISCO                                                                                       342.2   494.1   278.3        -      -      -  1.114.6
D. TAPACHLILA - CHIAPAS
WELL MD METER                            No           1      1      -               _        2   30,748.235    30.7    30.7         -      -       -      -     61.5      0    0.5     8.15       ME
TRANSMISSION LINE                        Ks          8       9         -                    17    2.277.647    18.2    20.5         -      -       -      -     38.7      8   0.5      O.15      TR
REGSttATION                              No           I      -       -- 1   29.586.635    29.6                             -        -      -       -      -      29.6     0   O.5      8.05      ST
DISTRIBUTION SYSTE3S                     Ka         50   32.5                             B2.5    1,594.353    79.7    51.8         -      -       -      -    131.5      0   8.5     8.15       DN
OUSE CON7ECTION                          No      3.000  3,300                  -    -   6.300        21.182    63.5    69.9         -      -       -      -    133.4      0   0.5      O.1S       NC
METERS                                   No        850       -         50                            6.305      5,4        -       -      -       -      -       5.4     0 8.5        8.15       MT
METER WORISHO                            Lot         I                                            5 -,694.118    5.7       -                                     5.7      88.5         0.15      TN
LEAK DETECTION                           No           I                                     1    5546.471        5.5        -                             -      5.5      8   0.8      0.15      LD
TRLGIW SEWER PIPES AND ITERCEPTORS       Ks          13                                    13    5,694.118    74.0         -        -      -       -      -      74.0     0   8.5      0.15       TS
SEYER PIPES                              Ks       57.8      51      _          -    -   108.8         1P936   111.8    98.7         -      -       -      -    210.5      8   0.5      0.15       SP
HOUSE DISHBMSES                          Mo      4,000  4,075                  -    -   8.075        20.043    80,2    81.7         -      -       -      -    161.8      0   0.5      8.15       "D
CLEAlING SEWER EtUIPtENT                 No          I       -                              1    56546.471       5.5        -       -      -       -      -       S.S     0   0.8      0.15       CS
LOCAL COMSILTAT                       MWMonth    200    227         -    -    -    -       427      244.828    49.0    55.6         -              -      -    104.5      0  0.29      8.15       LC
Sub-Total TAPACHILA - CHIAPAS                                                                                     558.9   409.0        -       -      -      -    967.9
E. OTHER PROJECTS
OTHER PROEACTS                          Glob.                                               -                  771.3 2.699.5 3.085.2  185.8  385.6  385.6  7,712.9        0   8.5      8.15       SU
Total INVESTMENI COSTS                                                                                             2,277.3 4,280.2 3,998.1  385.6  385.6  385.6 11,712.5
Total B LAEI,NE COSTS                                                                                               2,277.2 4_ 80.2 3_ 998.1  305.0  385.6  385.6 11,712.5



- 55 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 5
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Medium Size Cities - Proposed Works
1. CELAYA
1.1    Water Supply
(a) Improvement to 8 existing wells and construction of 4 new wells
including provision of master meters;
(b) construction of 7.7 km of transmission line;
(c) construction of two storage tanks with a combined capacity of
4,000 m3;
(d) provision of chlorination facilities for 16 wells;
(e) improvement of the distribution system and construction of 21.5
km of pipes;
(f) construction of 5,400 metered house connections, and purchase
and installation of 13,450 house meters; and
(g) provision of a leak detection equipment.
1.2    Sewerage
(a)  Construction of 21.6 ki of trunk sewer and 5.4 interceptors;
(b) improvements in the sewerage network and construction of 45 km
of sewer pipes;
(c) construction of 3166 house discharges; and
(d) construction of the first stage of oxidation ponds plant in-
cliding the laboratory equipment necessary for its operations.



- 56 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 5
2. COLIMA
2.1    Water Supply
(a) Improvements to the 8 existing wells and construction of 2 new
well including provision of master meters;
(b) construction of 21.3 km of transmission line;
(c) construction of 2 storage tanks with a combined capacity of
3,400 m3;
(d) provision of chlorination facilities;
(e) improvements in the distribution system and construction of
44.4 km of pipes;
(f) construction of 5050 metered house connections; and
(g) provision of 3750 meters and equipment for leak detection and
water and sewerage laboratory.
2.2    Sewerage
(a) Construction of 57.0 km of trunk sewers and interceptors;
(b) construction of a sewage pumping station;
(c) construction of 3640 house discharges; and
(d) provision of a cleaning sewer equipment.
3. CD. GUZMAN
3.1    Water Supply
(a) Construction of 6 deep wells and provision of master meters and
chlorinators;
(b) construction of 4.1 km of transmission line;
(c) construction of a storage tank with a capacity of 4,500 m3;



- 57 -                          ANNEX 10
PaRe 4 of 5
(d) improvements in the distribution system and construction of
29.5 km of pipes;
(e) construction of 8971 metered house connections;
(f) provision of 8382 meters; and
(g) provision of a complete water and sewerage laboratory and leak
detection equipment.
3.2    Sewerage
(a) Construction of 36.7 km of trunk sewers and interceptor;
(b) improvements in the sewerage network and construction of 19 km
of pipes;
(c) construction of 8013 house discharges; and
(d) provision of a cleaning sewers equipment.
4. TAPACHUJLA
4.1    Water Supply
(a) Construction of 7 deep wells;
(b) construction of 11 km of transmission line;
(c) construction of 3 storage tanks with a combined capacity of
7,800 m3;
(d) improvements in the distribution system and construction of 14
km of pipes;
(e) construction of 6300 house connections; and
(f) provision of 850 meters, a meter repair shop and a leak detec-
tion equipment.



- 58 -
ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 5
4.2    Sewerage
(a) Construction of 145 km of trunk sewers and interceptors;
(b) improvements in the sewerage network and construction of 43.1
km of pipes;
(c) construction of 8076 house discharges; and
(d) provision of a cleaning sewers equipment.



MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Mex S Million)                                 (USS Million)
X of                                       Z of
Foreign  X of Total                        Foreisn  % of Total
Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange Base Costs Local Foreign Total  Exchange Base Costs
A. STATE WATER COMPANY
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                55.7      56.6    112.3      50.4         0.6   0.5      0.5    1.1      50.4         0.6
SUPFLY                                           56.9    258.8    315.7       82.0         1.7   0.5      2.4    3,0      82.0         1.7
HEALTH EDUCATION PROGRAM                          4.7       6.4      11.1     57.8         0.1   0.0      0.1    0.1      57,8         0.1
CULIACAN                                      1,525.3  1461.2  2,986.5        48.9       15.9  14.4    13.8   28.2       48.9        15.9
LOS MOCHIS                                      438.3    416.8    855.0       48.7         4,6   4.1      3.9    8.1      48.7         4.6
TOPOLOBAMPO                                     150.2    145.6    295.8       49.2         1.6   1.4      1.4    2.8      49.2         1.6
MAZATLAN                                      1,095.7  1,043.3  2,139.0       48.8        11,4  10,3      9.8   20.2      48.8        11.4
Sub-Total STATE WATER COMFANY                    3Y326.8  3,388.7  6.715.5        50.5       35.8  31.4    32.0   63.4        50.5       35.8
B. MEDIUM - SIZE CITIES
CELAYA - GUANAJUATO                             483.0    400.2    883.2        45,3        4.7   4.6      3.8    8.3      45.3         4.7
COLIMA - COLIMA                                 521,7    512.1  1,033.9       49.5         5.5   4.9      4.8    9.8      49.5         5.5
Cr, GUZHAN - JALISCO                            557.9    556.6  1,114.6       49.9          5.9   5.3     5.3   10.5      49.9         5.9
TAPACHULA - CHIAPAS                             491.7    476,2    967.9       49.2         5.2   4,6      4.5    9.1      49.2         5,2
OTHER SUBPROJECTS                             3,764.4  3r948.5  7,712.9       51.2        41.1  35.5    37.3   72.8       51.2        41.1
Sub-Total MEDIUM - SIZE CITIES                   5,818.8  5,893.7 11,712.5        50.3       62.5  54.9    55.6  110.5        50.3       62.5
C. INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING PROGRAM
TRAINING PROGRAM                                227.5      95,7    323.2       29.6        1.7   2.1      0.9    3.0      29.6         1.7
EOUIFMENT                                          0.2      0.7       0.9      80.3        0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0      80.3         0.0
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING FROGRAM            227.6     96.4    324.1       29.8         1.7   2.1      0.9    3.1      29.8         1.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                                9,373.3  9.378.8 18,752.0       50.0       100.0  88.4    88.5  176.?       50.0       100.0
Price Contingencies                             8,013.6  9,264.5 17,278.1        53.6       92.1   4.5    11.5   16.0        72.0         9,0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                17,386.9 18,643.3 36,030.2       51.7       192.1  92,9   100.0  192.9       51.8       109.0
0 I-
----------------------------------------------~~~~== ==_=  === === --------- -------==---_========----==_=--===-- -=---=====---=======--- ===_=_===----
_____________  .......................... _______________ .................................______________________________________________--__---------....................................Lo.f



- 60 -                                                              ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 3
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINtLOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Summars Account be Time
Base Costs
Base Costs                                + Price
(Hex S Million)                             Cont. on    Foreign Exchange
Unit Cost                      ----------------------------------------------------------  Base Costs   ----------------
Unit    (Mex S '000)        No. of Units  1984        1985      1986    1987    1988    19B9    Total   (USS Million)    0             Amournt
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCTION
METERS                            No.            4.457-6.305          21,832    65.3       21.9      21.9         -        -        -    109.1              1.1   51.2        55.8
METERS WORKSHOP                   No.              5,694.118               1      5.7         -          -        -        -        -       5.7             0.1   51.2         2.9
TREATMENT PLANT                   No.                                      -   112.9    112.9    129.9            -        -        -    355.7              3.6   51.2       182.1
WELL A;D METER                    No. 13,438.118-76,301.17                 8   135.8    148.8        49.5         -        -        -    334.2              3.3   51.2       171.1
CHLORINATION                      No.  2,09B.024-9,131.294                26    36.1       48.1      31.9         -        -        -    116.0              1.2   51.2        59.4
TRANSMISSION LINE                 No.  1,822.118-5,523.294               256   259.1    278.4    353.6            -        -        -    891.1              9.1   51.2       456.2
STORAGE TANK                      No. 3,074.824-29.586.635                 7    77.0       40.9      13.9         -        -        -    131.0              1.3   51.2        67.5
DISTRIBUTION NETWORK              No.  1,162.873-2,515.661               558   416.5    470.8    261.8            -        -        -  1,149.1             11.5   51.2       588.3
HNUSE CONNECTIONS                 No.          15.146-21.182          65,490   416.5    489.1    401.6            -        -        -  1,307.1             13.2   51.2       669.2
TRUNK SEWER AND INTERCEPTORS   No. 1,110.353-14,121.412                  266   575.0    605.6    312.0            -        -        -  1,492.7             14.9   51.2       764.1
SEWER PIPES                       No.  1,366.588-2,774.174               575   475.5    464.6    255.9            -        -        -  1,196.0             11.9   51.2       612.3
PUMPING STATION                   No.  7,060,706-7,311.247                 2    48.9       26.0      15.5         -        -        -      90.4             0.9   51.2        46.3
HOUSE DISCHARGES                  No.          14.349-20.043          B9v291   531.0    663.2    539.0            -        -        -  1,733.2             17.5   51.2       887.3
GLOBAL                            No.                                      -   771.3  2,699.5  3?085.2   385.6   385.6   305.6  7,712.9                   02.4   51.2   3,948.5
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTION                                                           3,926.7  6,069.9  5,471.6   385.6   385.6   305.6 16,625.1                  171.9   51.2   0,510.9
Price Contingencies                                                        - 1,428.2  5,001.6  6,710.1   644.8   049.4 1,098.1 15,732.2                       -   54.7   8,604.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                5,354.9 11,071.5 12,081.7 0,030.5 1,235.1 1,483.7 32,357.3                  171.9   52.9  17,115.3
Taxes                                                                      -   803.2  1,660.7  1,827.3   154.6   185.3   222.6  4,853.6                       -    0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchanse                                                           - 2,892.3  5,871.0  6,386.7   540.3   647.1   777.9 17,115.3                       -    0.0         0.0
B. VEHICLES
PICK-UP TRUCK .5 TON              No.          834.75-834.75              30    12.5       12.5          -        -        -        -     25.0             0.3   85.0         21.3
PICK-UP TRUCK .75 TON             No.                   1,113             25    11.1       16.7          -        -        -        -      27.8             0.3   85.0        23.7
PICK-UP TRUCK 3 TONS              No.                 1,335,6             15    10.7        9.3          -        -        -        -      20.0             0.2   85.0        17.0
EXCAVATOR                         No.                  22,260              2    44.5          -          -        -        -        -      44.5             0.4   85.0        37.8
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                  78.9       38.6         -        -        -        -    117.4              1.2   85.0        99.8
Price Contingencies                                                        -    34.6       34.3          -        -        -        -      68.9               -   85.0        58.6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                  113.5      72.9          -        -        -        -    186.3              1.2   85.0       158.4
Tax:es                                                                     -    17.0       10.9          -        -        -        -      27.9               -    0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                           -    96.4       61.9          -        -        -        -    158.4                -    0.0         0.0
C. EQUIPMENT
COMNUNICATION                     No. 33,278,824-33!278.82                 5    99.0       66.6          -        -        -        -    166.4              1.7   80.3       133.6
CLEANING SEWER                    No.   5,546.471-15,086.4                 4    49.0           -         -        -        -        -      49.0             0.5   80.3        39.4
LABORATORY                        No.  1,663.941-4,437,176                 a      7.8       5.7       3.3         -        -        -      16.8             0.2   80.3        13.5
TOPOGRAPHY                        No.              5,546,471               5    27.7          -          -        -        -        -     27.7             0.3   00.3         22.3
AUDIOVISUAL                       No.                 277.324              5      1.4         -          -        -        -        -       1.4             0.0   80.3         1.1
LEAK DETECTION                    No.   4,448,269-6,694.59                 6    16.1       16,7          -        -        -        -     32.8             0.3   80.3         26.3
COMPUTER                          No.                                      -      0.9          -         -        -        -        -       0.9             0.0   80.3         0.7
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                                                202.8      89.0        3.3        -        -        -    295.1              2.9   80.3       236.0
Price Contingencies                                                        -    86.8       78.3       4.2         -        -        -    169.4                -   81.7       138.3
Sub-Total INCLUBING CONTINGENCIES                                                  289.6    167.3         7.6        -        -        -    464.5              2.9   80.8       375.2
Taxes                                                                      -    43.4       25.1       1.1         -        -        -     69.7                -    0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                           -   234.2    134.9         6.1         -        -        -    375.2                -    0.0         0.0



MEXICO
THIRD MfEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Summary Account by Time
D. CONSULTANT SERVICES
INTERNATIONAL CONSULTANT          No.                 530-530             58    12.7        7.4        8.0      2.7        -        -      30.7             0.3   85.0         26.1
LOCAL CONSULTANT                   No.       244.828-244.828           5,364   543.0    618.2    466.2          9.1        -        -  1,636.4             16.1   29.6        484.6
FIELD SURVEY                       No.             9t266.824               1      9.3          -         -        -        -        -       9.3             0.1   43.2          4.0
OFFICE SURVEY                      No.           0-4,633,412               3      4.6        4.6         -      4.6        -        -      13.9             0.1   43.2          6.0
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD             No.   463.341-23,167.059                 3      0.5       0.5          -    23.2         -        -      24.1             0.3   43.2         10.4
Sub-Total CONSULTANT SERVICES                                                      570.1    630.7    474.1    39.5             -        -  1,714.4             16.9   31.0       531.2
Price Coritiniencies                                                       -   182.0    494.3    565.9    65.4             -        -  1t307.6                 -   35.4       463.2
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                  752.1  1,125.0  1,040.0   104.9             -        -  3,022.1             16.9   32.9       994.4
Ts.<es                                                                     -   112.8    168.8    156.0    15.7             -        -    453.3                 -    0.0         0.0
Foreigr E;;chanse                                                          -   255.9    362,0    330.2    46.4             -         -    994.4                -    0.0         0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                              4,778.5  6,828.2  5,949.0   425.2   385.6   385.6 18,752.0                   192.9   50.0   9,378.8
Price Cortirerncies                                                            - 1,731.6  5Y608.5  7,280.2   710.3   849.4 1,098.1 17,278.1                       -   53.6   9,264.5
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                       6,510.1 12,436.6 13,229.2 1,135.4 1,235.1 1,483,7 36,030.2                   192.9   51.7  18,643.3
Ts.:es                                                                         -   976.5  1,865.5  1,984.4   170.3   185.3   222.6  5,404.5                       -    0.0         0.0
Foreigsn Exchange                                                              - 3,478.8  6,429.8  6,723.0   586.7   647.1   777.9 18,643.3                       -    0.0         0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                  4,778.5  6,828.2  5,949.0   425.2   385.6   385.6 18,752.0                  192.9   50.0   9,378.8
Frice Cortinrerncies                                                            - 1,731.6  5,608.5  7,280.2   710.3   849.4 1,098.1 17,278.1                       -   53.6   9P264.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                   6,510,1 12.436.6 13,229,2 1,135.4 1,235.1 1,483.7 36,030.2                  192.9   51.7  18,643,3
Tases                                                                           -   976.5  1,865.5  1i984.4   170.3   185.3   222.6  5,404.5                       -    0.0         0.0        1 
Foreign Eechanre                                                                - 3v478.8  6,429.8  8,723.0   586.7   647.1   777.9 18,643.3                       -    0.0         0.0        OQ z
April 18, 1983  14:49                                                                                                                                                                              Oh



- 62 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Suggested Outline of Terms of Reference for the Health Education Program
A. Introduction
SAHOP, BANOBRAS, and CEAPAS have agreed to undertake a health
education program in Sinaloa to ensure that the benefits of water supply
and sanitation projects in the State would be fully obtained, by improving
sanitation habits of the population.  Attachment 1 presents a timetable of
consultants' activities.
B. General Objectives
The general objective of the Health Education Program is to de-
velop values and skills leading to improve the use of water arnd related and
behaviour changes which would reduce the incidence of diseases.
C. Specific Tasks
To attain these objectives, the consultant, together with CEAPAS
and its regional offices staff and state sanitary inspectors, assigned to
this task should:
(a) select a representative sample of the communities in the
state where health education components can be implemented
in the five existing regional companies;
(b) review, in the sample of communities, the health habits of
the population and their communal organizatiort;
(c) design a communication program for the sample to educate the
population on the benefits of changes in sanitation, health
and child care practices;
(d) design audio-visual aid to support the community - based
health education program;
(e) train CEAPAS' staff on the implementation of the program,
throughout the state;
(f)  implement the health program in one region;
1/  Green, Lawrence et al.  Health Education Planning and Evaluation:   A
Diagnostic Approach. Mayfield Publ. 1980.



- 63 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
(g) evaluate the results of the program with a view recommending
specific improvements and identifying sucessful program ele-
ments; and
(h) prepare a handbook which should be written in simple form so
as to permit the understanding of terms. Consultants should
consider the possibility to use the Lawrence Oreen model
called PRECEDE (Predisposing, Reinforcing, and Enabling
Causes in Educational Diagnosis and Evaluation).



- 64 -
ANNEX 12
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3
Health Education Program
Timetable
Activities/year                      1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Select Consultants
Design Sample Communities                             *
Review Health Habits
Implement in one region                                         =     *
Evaluate results
Prepare Handbooks                                                               *
* Reports to be presented to the Bank for comments.



MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES ANTD SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Construction Schedule
Year/Quarter
Proj ec t
Cost
CITY                Mex$ Million       I   II  III IV  I  II III  IV  I II1II  IV   I II  III   IV   I  II  III   IV               I  II  III IV
<     Culiacan                             5718.4          --- XXX
c    Los Mochis                            1435.6         XXX
E    Topalobampo                            418.5         XX                                                                                                                l
Mazatlan                             3989.2          XXX               _
Celaya                               1616.5         XX                  _-
m     Colima                               1962.9          XXX
c'   Cd. Guzman                            2072.8         XXX
0
E    Tapachula                             1561.5              XXX
Other Mediumn Size City Projs.    16593.7                XXX                       XXX ------XXXX-----XXXX---------XXX
--------final designs
XXX      Bidding
Construction



- 66 -
ANNEX 14
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
(US$ Million)
----------------- Disbursements ----------------
IBRD Fiscal Year                Quarterly        Cumulative        Cumulative
1984
March 31, 1984                       3.2               3.2               3.2
June 30, 1984                        3.7               6.9              6.9
1985
September 31, 1984                   3.7             10.6              10.6
December 31, 1984                    4.4              15.0              15.0
March 31, 1985                       8.0              23.0              23.0
June 30, 1985                        9.0             32.0              32.0
1986
September 31, 1985                  10.5             42.5              42.5
December 31, 1985                   12.5              55.0             55.0
March 31, 1986                      10.5              65.5             65.5
June 30, 1986                        5.5             71.0              71.0
1987
September 31, 1986                   5.0             76.0              76.0
December 31, 1986                    5.0             81.0              81.0
March 31, 1987                       3.5              84.5              84.5
June 30, 1987                        3.3             87.8              87.8
1988
September 31, 1987                   3.2             91.0              90.7
December 31, 1987                    3.0             94.0              93.7
March 31, 1988                       1.0              95.0             94.7
June 30, 1988                        1.0             96.0              95.7
1989
September 31, 1988                   0.8             96.8              96.5
December 31, 1988                    0.5              97.3             97.0
March 31, 1989                       0.5              97.8              97.5
June 30, 1989                        0.5             98.3              98.0
1990
September 31, 1989                   0.5             98.8              98.5
December 31, 1989                    0.5             99.3              99.0
March 31, 1990                       0.5              99.8              99.5
June 30, 1990                        0.5            100.3             100.0



-67 -                       ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 6
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS S,A. BANGBRAS
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1981
(Million Mex. Pesos)
A)  Assets
Fixed Assets
Building and equipment (net)                         580.6
Of wholly owned subsidiaries                         110.6
Total fixed assets                                               691.2
Long Term Investments
Government bonds and securities                      348.5
Stocks in affiliated companies                       279.0
Certificates of deposit                               49.0
Increase per revaluation of certificates             354.5
Less reserve for contingencies                       (79.2)
Other investments (net)                            1,306.5
Total long term investment                                     2,258.3
Long Term Loans (net)
Discounts                                          1,890.4
Loans guaranteed by lien                         189,848.4
Loans for equipment purchases                        226.8
Loans guaranteed by mortgage                      40,885.4
Other loans (refaccionarias)                       3,875.7
Specialized operations                               226.6
Total long term loans                                        236,953.3
Deferred charges (net)                                           849.1
Current Assets
Cash and banks                                     3,609.7
Receivables (net)                                  5,430.3
Total current assets                                           9,040.U
TOTAL ASSETS                                                 249,791.9



- 68 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 6
B)  Capital and Liabilities
Capital                                            5,000.0
Capital reserves and accumulated earnings          2,051.4
Surplus for revaluation of portfolio                 376.8
Earnings                                             939.6
Total Equity                                                     8,367.8
Long Terim Debt
Mortgage bonds                                     7,209.8
Bonds and CD payable to foreign creditors         10,502.5
Long term deposits                                13,681.5
Long term loans by corporations and people         2,189.0
Long term loans by official entities              71,249.9
Long term loans by the Federal Government            202.4
Other long term debts                                714.5
Long term loans by Banks                         111,182.4
Other deposits and obligations                         4.1
Total long term debt                                           214,035.5
Reserves and Drovisions for obligations                          3.224.4
Deferred liabilities                                               228.6
Current Liabilities
Checking deposits                                  4,866.3
Savings deposits                                     479.0
Other demand obligations                          18,589.5
Total current liabilities                                       23,934.8
TOTAL CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES                                  249,791.9



- 6) -                      ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 6
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS S.A. BANOBRAS
Consolidated Income Statement as of December 31, 1981
(Million viex. Pesos)
Revenues
Interest collected on loans                               36,445.7
Dividends from affiliated companies                           53.9
Commission and other charges on loan                       1,007.6
Other revenues                                                19.2
Total Income                                           37,526.4
Expenses
Interest paid on outstanding debt                         31,510.3
Commissions and other charges on outstanding debt            398.9
Salaries and fringe benefits of personnel                  1,670.6
Fees                                                         121.9
Rent                                                         136.7
Promotion expenses                                           250.9
Depreciation and amortization                                 45.9
Taxes                                                         97.6
Concepts not deductible for IRS                              784.5
Other operating and administrative expenses                  438.9
Total Expenses                                         35,456.2
Operating Income                                        2,070.2
Plus other proceeds, benefits and recoveries                 399.6
Less reserves for bad debts and other contingencies          (20.2)
Profit before taxes and personnel sharing                  2,449.6
Less taxes                                                 1,258.0
Less personnel sharing                                       252.1
Net Profit                                                   939.5



- 70 -
ANNEX 15
PaRe 4 of 6
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS S.A. BANOBRAS
Comparative Balance Sheets and Income Statement (audited)
1979-1981
(Mlillion Mex. Pesos)
1979           1980           1981
Assets
Fixed Assets                                91.8           210.2           691.2
Long term investments                     2300.8          2100.0         2258.3
Long term loans                          99537.9        170079.8       236953.3
Deferred charges net                         -               -             849.1
Current assets                            2868.0          3820.0         9040.0
Total assets                          104789.5        176210.0       249791.9
Capital and Liabilities
Total equity                              4387.8          4387.8         8367.8  1/
Long term debt                           94757.3        162212.2       214035.5
Reserve and provisory                        -               -           3224.4
Deferred liabilities                         -               -             228.6
Current liabilities                       5653.4          9610.0        23934.8
Total tapital and liabilities         104798.5        176210.0       249791.9
Income Statement
1979           1980           1981
Total income                              12624.8        26210.1        37526.4
Total expenses                            11784.8        25878.4        35456.2
Operating income                            840.0          331.7         2070.2
Other income                                  -              -            399.2
Less reserves for base debts                  -              -             420.2)
Profit before taxes                         840.0          331.7         2449.6
Less taxes                                423.0          166.6         1258.0
Personnel sharing                         -              -            252.1
Net profit                                  417.0          165.1           939.5
1/ Capital was increased by 2.5 billion pesos.



MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
FIFAPA
Past Financial and Income Statemeuts
Balance Sheet
(Mex. Million Pesos)
1981        1980         1979         1978
Current Assets
Bond and securities                                        109.3        117.9         83.2         65.9
Short term loans to other programs                         104.1          -            -            -
Total current assets                                    213.4        117.9         83.2         65.9
Long term loans under FIFAPA Investment Project          2,511.2      1,219.4        558.8        224.4
Total assets                                          2,724.6      1,337.3        642.0        290.3
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                                            49.3         31.5         13.0          7.6
Other current liabilities                                   23.7          -            -            -
Provisions for contingencies                                 1.4            .5          .7           .1
Total current liabilities                                74.4         32.0         13.7          7.7
Equity                                                   2,650.2      1,305.3        628.3        282.5
Total equity and liabilities                          2,724.6      1,337.3        642.0        290.2
OQz
m u
0 M



MFXICO
TIIIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
FIFAPA
Past Financial and Income Statements
Statement of Income and Expenses
(Mex. Million Pesos)
1981       1980      1979       1978
Revenues
Interests on loans, bond & securities          188.2       88.8       47.3       16.4
Interests and other charges on loans               .0       -          -          -
Total income                                188.2       88.8       47.3       16.4
Expenses
Administration 1/                                  .8       2.1        2.2          .8
Fees to the "Comite  Tecnico"                     3.1         .8        .4         .2
Other expenses                                     .3       -          -            .2
4.2        2.9        2.6       1.2
Net income                                  184.0       85.9       44.7       15.2
i/ Administrative expenses include wages, general office expenses, rent and
indirect administrative expenses charged by BANOBRAS to FIFAPA.
e d
o ~
eh'



- 73 -
ANNEX 16
MEXICO
TffIRD MEDItM SIZE ClTES AND STNAlIA STAT1E WAaER PR=JECT I/
Appraised Ybdiun-Size Cities Financial Statement as of December 31, 1982 2/
(Mllion MEidcan Pesos)
BAIANIE SHEEr            CELAYA       (XUMA   CD. G2IMAN   TAPA(llJIA
Assets
Fied assets                        531.3       664.5       590.1        305.3
Accumlated depreciation            278.1       303.2       404.2        156.8
lit assets                         253.2       361.3       185.9        148.5
Work in progress                     0           0           0            0
Cash                                 6.4         5.7         3.9          1.0
Accounts receivable                 10.1         7.6        11.1          3.2
Inventory                            1.1          .3          .8           .1
Other Carrent Assets                 0           0           0            0
Other Assets                         0           0           0           37.6
Total Assets                     270.6       374.8       201.7        190.4
Liabilities
Accounts Payable                     4.3         1.7         2.6           .8
Other (irrent Liabilities            0           0           0            0
Other Liabilities                     .2         0           0            0
Total Current Liabilities          4.5         1.7         2.6           .8
lxig-Term Debts                      0           7.8         0            2.7
Other long-term Liabilities          0          14.8         0            5.3
Total Liabilities                  4.5        24.6         2.6          8.8
Equity                             266.1       350.5       2D0.0        181.6
Total Fquity Liabilities           270.6       374.8       202.6        190.4
Appraised Madiun Size Income  Statement for 1982
INE SrATR1                    MMAA       CLIM      CD. GJZMN   TAPACHaUA
Water Sales                          13.4       17.4        16.2         76.0
Camecticn fees&other Oper.Rev.       4.1         1.2         5.0          1.5
Sewrage crges                       12.8         9.4         8.9          0
Total Revenues                    30.3        28.1        30.1         77.5
Operation & Maintenance Costs       33.4        23.5        18.8         39.1
Depreciation                        15.8        12.6        13.9          6.0
Operational Interest                 1.0                     0             .3
Operating Ineom                   (-19.9)      (-8.1)      (-2.6)        32.1
Non{-perational Incoe                0           0           0            0
Net Incoe                         (-19.9)       (8.1)      (-2.6)        32.1
Working Ratio 3/                    110.2       83.6        62.4         50.4
Average Base Rate                  290.7       203.9       149.3        117.5
Rate of Return                      -6.5        -3.9        -1.8         27.5
1/ Cities not in the State of Sinaloa.
2/ Projected. Based on preliminary non-audited financial stateents to Sept.
1982.
3/ Operational expnses before depreciation/operating income.



- 74 -
ANNEX 17
TE=JD llEDIIM  SIZE CMTES A1D SINIU  SAE  WA=  PYETC7
ppraised CEAPAS Cities  lnmExial Statement as of lneter 31, 1982 1/
(MllUn Mdcan Pesos)
EAIAE SIM                 CULLTCAN      IIJaS      MAZATLAN
Assets
Fixed assets                         2577.5       453.4        534.0
Ackw lated depreciation              1440.4       199.2        279.1
Net Fixed Assets                     1137.0       254.2        254.0
Work in progress                        0           0            0
Cash                                    1.0         1.0          3.4
Acoomts receivable                     31.4        26.4          5.3
inVentor!                              30.6         4.6          3.1
Other CIwrent Assets                   29.2         0            0
Other Assets                           12.7         0            0
Total Assets                       1241.9       286.2        266.6
Liabilities
Accounts Payable                       21.0        23.2          9.5
Other On-rent Liabilities              12.9         3.4         0
Total Current Liabilities            33.9        26.6          9.5
Long-Term Debts                       322.5         0           12.5
Other Ixg-tenn Debt                   58.8         84.0          2.8
Total Liabilities                   415.2       110.6         24.8
Equity                               826.7        175.6       241.8
Total Equity & Liabilities           1241.9       286.2        266.6
Water Sales                           146.6        20.4         85.2
Sewerage                               7.7         0            14.1
OtFer Tnco,F                           28.9        8.9          6.9
Total Reventis                      183.2        29.3       106.2
Operation & Maintenance Costs         154.9       44.3        123.1
Depreciation                           59.9         7.4         12.7
Operational interest                   31.3         3.1          1.3
Operating Income                     (-,2.9)    (-25.5)       (-30.9)
%n-Operating lnaxi3e 2/               65.2         0            0
Net Incorne                             2.3     (-25.5)       (-30.9)
Working Ratio 3/                       84.1       151.2        116.0
Average Base Rate                     869.5       208.9        205.0
Rate of Return                           .3        -3.9         -6.6
1/ Projecteai. Based on preliminary non-audited financial statements to
September 1982.
2/  Income from "Cuotas de Cooperacion" as a result of previous investmnts
financed by loans 1186-ME ani 1913-MF.
3/ Cerating expenses before depreciation/operatirg income.



- 75 -
ANNEX 18
MEXICO
THiIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS S.A. (BANOBRAS)
Monitoring Tndicators
City    Year   Popula-   Popola-    Popula-   Water            Sewerage    Consump-        Volume    J unac-   Aver-          Aver-      No. of    Working
tion       tfon        tion      connec-      connec-    tions m3/        sold      counted   age           age        staff       ratio
thou-      served      served      tion.         tions      connec.1       106/m33      for      water       com-        per          7
sands      wator 1    sewer-    thou-           thou-        month           year      water   tariff        bined       1,00n
age 7      sands        sands                                           Mex$/m3       tariff    Connec-
Mes$/n,3    tines
6.fa,-    1f933i - -   s.-         7-n       67   - 12.               1.4         34.10          s.1        43        6.1         9.1         5.4       1' 1.1
1934    111.1       8O           72         4.8,         11.9         33.0          5.9        41        10.7        19.3        5.5        79.3
19RS     115.6      '1)          76        17.3         13.3          32.4          6.7         3)       !3.9        2$.1        S.n        R3.'
193n     I "1.2     q5          28(        i9.r         14.6          32.4          7.4         ?S       17.4        14.8        6."        7 ..
1987     125..'     q5           8)        19.8          16.0         32.4          7.7         25      34.0         63.n        6.r         i.'.4
1998     i 11. )    95           8()       211.6         16.7         32.4          8.0         ?5      42.5         8s.n        6.h        46.'
19R9     1 15.?     95           R/l       21.4          17.l         32.4          8.1         25      53.1        1 062          .        44.1
1983     12I.4      85           85        17.0          14.7         31.0          6.3         33       10.0        j83*        s.n        69.7
1985    124.9       Q0          9go        18.7         16.1          31.0          2.0        30        13.n        23.4        5. 8       h3.5
1986    129.S       9S           95        20.5         17.3          31.0          7.6         25       17.0        34.'        5.0       5.7.
1987     134.-      95           95        21.3          13.4         31.0          7.9         25       34.0        68.0        5.0         37.0
1988    135.4       95            9        22.1         19.0          31.0          8.2         25      42.0         84.0        5.0        38.6
1989     144.b      95           76        22.9          19.8         31.0          8.5         25       53.0       106.0        5.0        36.0
Cd.Gu zman  1f9i      117.2      55          49         11.3         10.0         32.5           7.2        39        5.5          9.9        4.3        69.4
1934    122.2       73           6S        15.6         13.9          32.5          9.4        35        8.3         15.4        4.9        50.4
1935    127.5       90           a0        20.1         17.9          32.5         10.5        25        10.8        21.1        5.4        49.7
1986    133.0       90           85        21.0         19.8          32.5         10.9        25        14.3        28.6        6.0        48.2
1987    138.2       90           35        21.9         20.7          32.5         11.4        25        29.0        58.0        6.0        31.9
1988    144.6        90          85        22.8         21.6          32.5         11.8         39       36.0        72.0        6.0        29.1
1989    150.9       90           85        23.8         22.5          32.5         12.4        39       47.0         94.0        6.0        27.3
Tapachula  1983    101.4         66          40         11.3          6.9         43.5           6.1        37       19.4         19.4        6.3        60.1
1984    104.8        80          61        14.3          7.1          42.0          7.5         30       29.0        29.0        6.0        50.2
1985     108.3       95          80        18.0          11.3         39.3          8.5         25       37.7        48.6        6.0        40.6
1986    111.3       95           80        18.6         15.2          39.3          8.8         25       58.2        87.3        6.0        30.3
1987    115.6       95           80        19.3          15.7         39.3          9.1         25       69.8       104.7        6.0        30.2
1988     119.4      95           80        20.0          16.2         39.3          9.4         25      83.3        125.7        6.0        30.0
1989     123.3      95           80        20.5          16.7         39.3          9.          25      10D.5       150.2        6.0        29.6
Culiacan    1983    467.1        7 9     -   28  -    61.8           21.8         30.2          22.4        30       14.9         20.1        5.7        72.4
1984    483.5       81           46        67.7         37.6          30.2         24.5         28       22.0        33.0        5.7        57.1
1985    500.6        88          64        73.4         53.4          30.2         26.6         25       27.4        43.8        5.7        51.7
1986    518.3        90          80        77.7         69.1          30.2         28.2         25       35.9        57.4        5.7        44.1
1987    536.6        90          80        80.5         71.5          30.2         29.2         25       45.1        81.2        5.7        38.4
1988    555.5        90          80        83.3         74.1          30.2         30.2         25       58.5        23.2        5.7        34.9
1989    575.1        90          80        86.3         76.7          30.2         31.3         25       70.2        34.6        5.7        35.1
Mazatlan   1983    233.7         22           72        33.6         33.6          33.0         13.3        56       10.1         13.1        6.0       118.0
1984    246.2       79           75        33.9         36.9          34.5         16.1         45       14.9        20.1        6.0        95.0
1985    259.3       86           80        44.6         41.5          34.5         18.5         35       21.9        30.7        6.0        75.0
1986    272.8        95          85        51.8         46.4          34.5         21.5         30       32.2        48.3        6.0        55.0
1987    286.9        95          85        54.5         48.8          34.5         22.6         25       47.3        75.7        6.0        44.0
1988    301.1        95          85        57.3         51.2          34.5         23.7         25       56.4        90.2        6.0        46.0
1989    316.1        95          85        60.1          53.7         34.5         24.9         25       68.0       112.2        6.0        43.0
Los Mochis 1983    169.4         86           70        25.6         20.9         49.2          12.6        38        3.1          3.7        9.2       102.8
1984    175.0       89           76        27.3         23.3          49.2         13.4         35        4.9         7.8        8.7        83.2
1985     180.8       92          82        29.2          25.8         49.2         14.4         32        6.7        11.4        8.3        73.3
1986    186.7       95           83        31.1         27.2          49.2         15.7         28       12.8        23.1        7.8        46.2
1987     192.9       95          85        32.2          28.8         49.2         16.2         25       15.9        28.6        7.5        44.3
1988    199.2        95          85        33.2         29.7          49.2         16.7         25       19.1        34.4        7.5        43.8
1989    205.8        95          85        34.3         30.7          49.2         17.3         25       23.0        41.4        7.5        43.6



- 76 -
ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Summary of Assumptions used in Financial Projections
for Medium-Size Cities and Beneficiaries under CEAPAS
1.         Financial projections prepared by SAHOP showing production, de-
mand, financial data, and cost data are available in the project files for
the nine cities appraised and the Regional Companies of Sinaloa.   These
projections were the base used to arrive to the financial information pre-
pared by the mission. A summary of the main assumptions used in the finan-
cial projections are described below.
Revenues
2.         Water sales are based on projections for production, consumption
per conn/month, and reduction of unaccounted-for water as shown in Annex
14.  Operating revenues are from billings which include charges for water
consumption, sewerage services, connection rights for both services.   Re-
quired tariffs for water and sewerage revenue assumptions and rate in-
creases are shown in Annexes 21 and 22.
3.        Average tariffs are assumed to be sufficient to allow the benefi-
ciaries to comply with the financial covenants and to at least maintain
tariffs in real terms after the construction period.   Required rate in-
creases and expected combined (water plus sewerage) average tariffs per m3
sold are given in Annexes 21 and 22.  Nonoperating revenues are made up of
costs on materials and labor, which are paid by the user when a water or
sewerage connection is made.   This  category also includes  the Cuota de
Cooperacion.
4.           Local annual inflation was assumed to be 70% in 1983, 50% in
1984, 30% in 1985 and 20% from 1986 to project completion in 1989.  Wages
are based on present payroll and assumed to grow parallel to inflation plus
an average of 2% per year in real terms to account for promotions, in-
creases in personnel, bonuses and special subsidies.   The cost of energy
was calculated taking into account the water production and adjusted on the
basis on projected electricity tariffs provided by the "Comision Federal de
Electricidad".  Use of chemicals are assumed to increase in proportion to
water production, except when special increases were made to compensate for
historical unrrealistically low consumption.   Cost of materials and other
expenses are assumed to increase in proportion to the number of
connections.



ANNEX 19
- 77 -                    Page 2 of 2
Depreciation
5.        A straight-line amortization method is used, and an annual aver-
age rate of 3% was estimated on the basis of the average useful life of
fixed assets.
Balance Sheets Accounts
6.        Fixed assets and accumulated depreciation are revalued according
to 100% of Consumer Price Index.   Accounts receivable are based on uncol-
lected billings and are assumed to be reduced from present levels to a
maximum of three months of billing by 1985 and thereafter. Inventories are
estimated at a level sufficient to cover an average of three months of
material and chemicals required for operations.   Accounts payable are as-
sumed to reflect unpaid bills for operating costs (material and services)
from two to three months.   Other assets and liabilities, when historical
records show no significant amounts, are reduced to zero and when amounts
are large these are kept constant or reduced slowly to avoid sharp in-
creases or decreases in the flow of funds.
CEAPAS
7.        In the case of CEAPAS, the most difficult task was to project the
growth of the regional companies, based in the number and size of systems
that are being incorporated, therefore, to project the future finances of
the regional companies, all consideration described above for Medium-Size
Cities were taken and used in a sample of cities that represent an im-
portant percentage of the total population of each Regional Company (para.
6.20).



- 78 -
ANE 20
MEKEQJ
TEID MIEDI[-SIZE CrITES AND SILAl SIE MMWAR PROECr
Flrincial Plan (1983-1989)
(Mlllions Mnxican PFsos)
Appraised BC Companies
Appraised BC Companies                 in  the State of Sinaloa
Ciudad
Celaya     Colim      Gunan    Tapa(hla    Mzatlan  IDs MDchis   Culiaca
Income Before Depreciation      1152.0     1573.6     1724.6     3509.6       4275.8       1399.0      7554.0
Net mli-Operating Revenue       1600.0     1522.0     1170.0      520.0       3600.0       1360.0      4305.0
Gross Internal Cash Generation    2752     3095.6     2894.6     4029.6        7875.8      2759.0     11859.0
Total Debt Service (-)          1788.0     2Q81.0     2256.0      2056.8      4050.0       1832.0      6332.0
Working Capital (-)              371.0      364.3       62.7      354.9        669.2        210.0       736.0
Other Labilities or Assets         0          0          0          0            0           0           0
(}ntribution to Investments      546.0      538.8      378.0      435.0        494.4       317.0        713.0
Project Investment Inchmding VA   1608.0   1964.7     1725.0      1565.0       5383.0      1401.3      5719.4
Interest During Construction     689.4      711.6      452.0      418.0        1521.3      368.2       2004.4
Otier Works                      546.4      538.8      377.5      435.7        492.0       318.0       1002.0
Total Iestnents                 2844.8     3215.1     2554.5      2418.7       7396.3      2087.5      8725.8
Total to be Financed by
FIFAPA                         2298.0     2658.3     2177.0      1983.0        6904.3       1769.5     7723.8
% Fnanced by FIFAPA               81.0       83.0       85.0       82.0           93.0        85.0        88.0
% Financed by internal cash
,neration                       19.0       17.0        15.0       18.0           7.0         15.0        12.0



- 79 -
AIND( 21
amo
THRD MEDIU4 SIZE CrIIES AND SINATi'A SEAIE WA24  PRE)T
Selected Financial 1ata - Medium Size Cities
(Mllion 14xPesoe except Average tariffs)
1983        1984        1985         1986         1987       1988        1989
CELAYA
Sewearage revenue assumption %                      50          80          80          100          100        100          100
Average -wter Tariff Yex$Im3                         6.1        10.7         13.9        17.4         34.0       42.5         53.1
Anmual tariff increase %                            74          75          30           25           99         25           25
h'et Revalued fixed assets                         362         700        1582         32(6         3739       4487        5406
Average net fil1 assets                            307         580         825         2394         3462       4113        4946
Depreciatimn                                        20          32          58          102          144        177          219
Contribution to irnestmnts                           0           0           0            0          122        177          247
Debt service to subloans                             0           0           0            0          596        596         596
Operating expenses                                  51          88          134         186          235        294          371
Revenue requirennts                                 50        14           196         297         1420       1603         1563
Revemnes                                            50         112         200          303         1427       1487         1805
Working ratio %                                    101.1        7B.6        83.7         76.5         51.4       46.0         44.1
Rate of return %                                    -6.8        -1.3        -1.0          0.63        30.8       24.7         24.6
% Debt/Debt + Equity                                 1.1        51          68           69           59         48          39
Sewrage revenue assumption Z                        80          80          80          100          100        100          100
Average wter Tariff Mex$/m3                          5.64       10.0         13.0        17.0         34.0       42.0         53.0
Aniual tariff increase X                                        77.3        30           30.7        100         24           25
Net Fevalued fixed assets                          524         835         1447        2423         4257       5089         6068
Average net fixed assets                           443         679        1141         1935         3340       4674        5579
1fpreciation                                        25          39          60           92          144        198          244
Contributiun to invesosents                          0           0           0            0          155        178          205
Debt service to subloaso                             0           0           0            0          693        693         693
Operating expenses                                  59          96         132          168          207        257         318
Revenm requirements                                 64         110          180         260          900        950         1011
Pevenues                                            71         144         228          360         1040       1152         1366
Working ratio Z                                     84.3        69.7        63.5         5B.7         37.0       38.4         36.0
Rate of return %                                    -2.9         1.3         3.1          0           20.5       14.9         14.4
X Debt/Debt + Equity                                 5.9        39          58           65           59         49          41
CD. -  N
Sewerage revemue assumption Z                     80          85          95          100          100        100         100
Average wter Tariff lcx$/13                        5.0         8.3         10.8        14.3         29.0       36.0        47.0
Axual tariff increase                             40          51          30           37          102         24          30
Net ?evalued fixed assets                        271         788         1877        3304         3891       4582        5717
Averag  net fixd assets                          228         529        1332         2590         3598       4237        5150
Depreciation                                      22          39          73          122          164        200         249
Contrilbtion to investmnts                         0           0           0          83            91         97          105
Debt service to subloans                           0           0           0            0          564        564         564
Operating exses                                   33          65          97          122          152        190         238
Revenue requirements                              48          92          150         210          716        754         802
Pevenues                                          48         127          195         253          867       1041         1259
Warekng ratio Z                                   69.4        50.4        49.7         48.2         31.9       29.1         27.3
Rate of return %                                  -2.6         2.9          1.3          .2         15.3       14.6         15.3
% Debt/Debt + Equity                               1.1         6.9        76.2         68.5         56.8       44.5        35.3
TARPaUIA
Sewerage reveue assumption%                        0           0          30           50           50         50          50
Averae  wter Tariff Mex$/m3                       19.44       29.0        37.7         58.2         69.8       83.8        100.5
Z Arul tariff Icrease %                           50          55          27           56           20         20           20
Net Revalued fisil assets                        217         549         1691        2734         3264       3890        4622
Avge  net fixed assets                           182         384         1120        2213         3000       3577        4256
Depreciatin                                       12          21          47           85          115        142          173
Cmntribution to invesaents                         0           0           0           95           98        114          127
Debt service to subloans                           0           0           0          639          639        639         639
Operating expnses                                 72         115          175         235          288        354         435
Revemue requirets                                 84         100         200         874           927        993         1074
Revemnes                                         119         229         431          936         1082       1311         1594
wrridng ratio %                                   60.1        50.2         40.6        30.3         30.2       30.0         29.6
Rate of return %                                  18.7        24.2        18.7         27.8         22.6       22.7         23.2
Z Debt/Debt + Equity                               1.2        67.1        71.1         62.6         51.0       39.3        30.8



- 80 -
A1'EK 2
MixD
T1MD NMDM SIZE CrIES AND SfIlIA SfrATE WATIR POJELE
Selected Finncial Data - Cities in the State of Saraloa
(Million MmxFesos-except average tariff)
1983        1984        1985        1986         1987       1988        1989
MAZATIN
Sewerage revenue assumptionZ                       30          35          40          50           60         60           65
Average water Tariff Mex$/m3                       10.1        14.9        21.9        32.2         47.3        56.4        68.0
Arnual tariff increase %                           46          47          47          52           46          20          20
Net Revalued fixed assets                         367         823        2174        4824         7224       8668        10226
Average net fixed assets                          311         595        1498        3499         6024        7946        9447
Depreciaticn                                       20          34          68          137         2261        296         361
Contribution to investments                         5           0           0           0           144        164         186
Debt service to subloans                            0           0           0           0          1350       1350        1350
Operating expenses                                217         343         471         603          743        992         1215
Revenue requlremEnts                              200         340         520         730          2093       2342        2565
Revenues                                          183         360         624         1095         2B70       3351        4004
korking ratio Z                                   118          95          75          55            44         46          43
Rate of return %                                  -17.1        -3.0         5.7         10.1         30.9       26.0        25.7
x Debt/(Debt + Equity)                              9.9        68.3        76.5        74.2          72.2       58.3        46.2
L06 MDIS
Sewerage revenue assumption                        20          60          70          80           80         80           80
Average mater Tariff M?x$/m3                        3.1         4.9         6.7         12.8         15.9       19.1        23.0
Anmal tariff increase Z                            81          60          40          85            25         20          20
Set Revalued fixed assets                         327         878        2250        2844         3363        3970        4675
Average net fixed assets                          291         602         1564        2547        3103        3666        4322
preciation                                         16          29          64          99           124        151         184
Contributicn to investnts                           0           0           0          62           76         85           96
Debt service to subloans                            0           0           0         458          458         458         458
Operating empenses                                 73         111         147         191          232         282         342
Fevue reTqirements                                 65         110         211         649          690         740         800
Revenues                                           72         133         201         751          840         960        1093
Wor1dng ratio 7                                   102.8        83.2        73.3        46.2          44.3       43.8        43.6
Raw. of return %                                   -5.8        -1.1         -.6         18.1         15.6       14.4        13.1
X Debt/(Debt + Equity)                              7.3        62.1        66.1        60.7         50.2        41.3        33.9
CULTAM
Sewerage reveaue assumption %                      35          50          60          60           80         80          80
Average water Tariff Mex$/m3                       14.9        22.0         27.4        35.9         45.11      58.5        70.2
tual tariff ircrease X                            1D)          47           25         30            30         30          20
Net Revalued fixed assets                        1972        3437        7333       13317         15545      18117       20984
Average net fixed assets                         1554        2704        5384        10325        14431      16831       19550
Depreciation                                      102         164         280         464          640         774        1026
Contribution to irvestmrents                        0           0           0         179          206         236         271
Debt service to subloans                           43          43          43          43          2039       2039        2D39
Operatlrg expenses                                266         418         566         703          860        1050        1262
Reveu requirements                                368         611         927         1248         2699       3089        3321
Revemss                                           432         797        1163         1883        3437       4202         4846
Workdng ratio %                                    72.4        57.1        51.7         44.1         38.4       34.9        35.1
Rate of return X                                    4.1         7.9         5.8         6.9          13.4       14.1        13.0
% Debt/(Debt + Equity)                             16.1        45.0        56.5        59.0          50.9       43.1        35.4



- 81 -
ANNEX 23
Page 1 Of 4
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Subsidiary Sub-Loan Agreement
a)  Beneficiaries
i) BC Companies: subloans will be signed only with an auto-
nomous BC Company that operates the water and sewerage in the
respective city under the terms and conditions listed in
items (b) and (d) to (k) below;
(ii)    CEAPAS:    When  a  subloan  agreement  is  signed  with
CEAPAS, it will include the obligation to relend to the Re-
gional Companies the proceeds of the subloan under the terms
and conditions listed in items (c) to (1), for specific pro-
jects in cities within the respective regional company. As a
condition of effectiveness, CEAPAS' bylaws, which should en-
trust CEAPAS with the authority to enforce compliance by the
Regional  Company  with  the  agreed-upon  covenant  (para.
8.03(c)),  would  have  to  be  published  in  the  official
gazette.   This authority should include the possibility of
CEAPAS taking over the management of the Regional Company, if
the latter should default on its contractual obligations.
b)  Revenue Covenant for the BC Companies:  Tariffs, other char-
ges and non-operating revenues for water and sewerage shall
be set at such levels as shall be required by each BC Company
to obtain in each calendar year, starting in the third calen-
dar year after the date of the corresponding agreement, re-
venues sufficient to cover the sum of (i) all its operating
expenses; (ii) increase in working capital; and (iii) the fi-
nancing of minor works (about 3% of net revalued fixed assets
plus work in progress); and (iv) the higher of either all
debt services payment or the annual depreciation charges on
revalued fixed assets. The agreement shall also provide that
in the first two calendar years after the date of each agree-
ment, charges for the water supply and sewerage services
shall be set, as follows:
(i) in the first calendar year after the date of the cor-
responding agreement at a level at least equal to the



- 82 -
ANNEX 23
Page 2 of 4
present charges plus one-third of the difference bet-
ween the level of such present charges and that re-
quired to cover the sum of the items specified in (i),
(ii) and (iv) hereof, as estimated for such calendar
year;
(ii)  in the second calendar year thereafter, at a level at
least equal to the level of the present charges plus
two-thirds of such difference; and
(iii)  in the first and second  calendar years mentioned  in
items (i) and (ii) above, revenues for water and sewer-
age services should be sufficient to avoid cash
deficit.
c)  Revenue Covenant for CEAPAS:   Unlike the BC Companies, most
of CEAPAS Regional Companies (with the exception of Rio
Humaya) will have a rather large number of unprofitable
small systems under their jurisdiction. The revenue covenant
for these companies provide for a more gradual build up in
revenues  than the one described in (b) above.   During the
construction period (up to 4 years), tariff and other charges
and non-operating revenues for the Regional Companies shall
be set at such levels to obtain every year: (A) enough re-
venues to cover present charges plus 1/4, 1/2 and 3/4 in the
first, second and third calendar year after the date of the
corresponding agreement of the difference between the level
of such present charges and that required to cover at the end
of the fourth calendar year the sum of: (i) all its operating
expenses; (ii) increases in working capital (including the
fee to be paid to CEAPAS to cover its administrative expenses
(para. 7.05); and (iii) an additional amount each year suf-
ficient to cover 17%, 33% and 50% in the first, second and
third calendar year after subloan signature of the estimated
debt service due in the first year after the grace period.
(B) After the construction period each Regional Company would
be required to comply with the revenue covenant applicable to
the BC Companies as stated in (b) above.  (C) The BC Company
of Culiacan,  beneficiary of Loan  1186-ME and  hich  is now
part of the Regional Company of Rio Humaya, wi?l have to con-
tinue complying with the revenue covenant under such Loan.
d)  Tariffs:  Each  BC  Company  and  CEAPAS'  Regional  Companies
should review, at least once a year, its tariff levels and
other charges as necessary to meet the financial covenants.



- 83 -
ANNEX 23
Page 3 of 4
In addition, each BC Company should develop to the satisfac-
tion of BANOBPAS and the Bank, a specific tariff structure
and schedule for its implementation (para. 4.13);
e)  Institutional Arrangements:   The institutional  changes and
improvements in the BC Companies, as recommended in the fea-
sibility studies prepared by SEDUE for each Beneficiary Com-
pany, will be carried out by the Companies within one year of
each subloan signature.   CEAPAS would be required to imple-
ment the recommendations of its institutional development
program (para. 5.05);
f)  Leak Detection and Control  Program:   In those beneficiary
cities where unaccounted-for water is higher than 30%, a com-
prehensive leak detection and control program will be carried
out by SEDUE during the subproject construction period
(para. 2.11);
g) Accounting: a proper accrual accounting system will be estab-
lished  in  each  BC  Company  and  CEAPAS  Regional  Companies
within a year of subloan signature (para. 4.10);
h) Revalued Fixed Assets: Within a year of subloan signature,
the fixed assets of each BC Company will be inventoried and
revalued (paras. 4.10 and 6.04).   Fixed assets will be re-
valued annually in a proportion equal to 100% of the corre-
sponding variation of the Mexican Price Index; CEAPAS
Regional Company will revalue their assets not later than two
years after subloan signature (additional time is required
due to the large number of cities within each region that
would be incorporated);
i) Auditing: The accounts of the BC and Regional Companies will
be audited each calendar year, by qualified independent audi-
tors acceptable to FIFAPA and SEDUE.  Copies of such reports
and auditor's supplementary letter will be sent for Bank re-
view not later than four months after the end of the fiscal
year (para. 4.12);
j)  Monitoring Indicators:   Based on the project objectives and
financial projections included in the feasibility studies, a
list of indicators (Annex 18) will be used to monitor project
execution for all BC Companies.   For CEAPAS Regional Compa-
nies, FIFAPA and SEDUE will present for Bank approval, a pro-
posed list of monitoring indicators not later than December
31, 1984. These monitoring indicators would specify for each



- 84 -
ANNEX 23
Page 4 of 4
year the following targets: percentage of population served
with water and sewerage services; number of water and sewer-
age connections; volume sold; percentage of unaccounted-for
water; number of employees per 1,000 water connections; aver-
age water tariff Mex$ per m3; and working ratio.  The indi-
cators would be updated semi-annually by the BC and Regional
Companies to FIFAPA/SEDUE's satisfaction;
k)  Accounts Receivable:  Within one year of subloan signature,
each beneficiary city will submit a plan satisfactory to
FIFAPA to reduce accounts receivable to a maximum of three
months of billings  not later than two years after subloan
signature (para. 4.11); and
1)  the State of Sinaloa would make its best efforts to fully in-
tegrate into the Regional companies not later than December
31, 1987, all water and sewerage systems in the State.



- 85 -
ANNEX 24
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Incremental Population Served 1983-87
Cities under the jurisdiction of the State Water Company
(thousand inhabitants and %)
Los Mochis       Mazatlan        Culiacan
Total population 1986           189.8           279.8           527.4
Urban Poor                       77.7 (41)       109.1 (39)    200.4 (38)
Water Supply
Total population
served 1987                   180.3 (95)      265.8 (95)    474.7 (90)
Urban poor served 1987           67.8 (88)       94.9 (87)    176.4 (88)
Incremental Population
served 1983-87                 36.9           101.8           110.4
Incremental urban poor
served 1983-87                 15.4 (43)       40.7 (40)       49.7 (45)
Sewerage
Total Population
served 1987                   161.3 (85)      265.8 (95)    421.9 (80)
Urban poor served 1987           56.2 (73)       84.0 (77)    150.3 (75)
Incremental Population
served 1983-87                44.3            101.8           293.3
Incremental urban poor
served 1983-87                 22.2 (50)       50.9 (50)    117.2 (40)



- 86 -
ANNEX 25
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Incremental Population served 1982-86
Medium-Size Cities
(thousand inhabitants and %)
Tapachula         Celaya        Cd. Guzman      Colima
Total population 1987               113.7            122.6          138.7           131.9
Urban Poor                           54.6 (48)        52.7 (43)       58.2 (42)      55.4 (42)
Water Supply
Total population
served 1987                       108.0 (95)       116.4 (95)     124.8 (90)      125.4 (95)
Urban poor served 1987               49.1 (90)        47.4 (90)       50.0 (86)      44.3 (80)
Incremental Population
served 1983-87                     42.1             43.0 (90)      60.3            34.2
Incremental urban poor
served 1987-87                     21.0 (50)        20.6 (48)      31.9 (53)       13.7 (40)
Sewerage
Total population
served 1987                        90.9 (80)        98.0 (80)     117.9 (85)    112.1 (85)
Urban poor served 1987               35.4 (65)        35.3 (68)      39.6 (68)       36.1 (65)
Incremental Population
served 1983-87                     51.0 9           28.0           60.6            25.4
Incremental urban poor
served 1983-87                     21.9 (43)        11.4 (41)      23.6 (39)        9.6 (38)



- 87 -
ANNEX 26
MEXICO
THIRD MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Other Projects in Mexico with Bank Financing 1/
Zihuatanejo Turism Project (Loan 793-ME, signed in January
1972), already completed;
Papaloapan    Integrated   Rural    Development   Project    (Loan
1053-ME, signed in November 1974);
PIDER I Integrated Rural Development Project (Loan 1110-ME,
signed in November 1974);
PIDER II Integrated Rural Development Project (Loan 1462-ME,
signed in July 1977);
Baja California Tourism Project (Loan 1420-ME, signed in May
1977);
Lazaro   Cardenas   Urban   Development   Project   (Loan   1554-ME,
signed in April 1978); and
Second Urban and Regional Development Project (Loan 1990-ME,
signed in January 12, 1982).
1/  All of these project have a significant component to build water and
sewerage systems.












IBRD 16392
MAY 1982
109'                f.-....     108°                                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
4  \>.4 La Reforma                       <N ----i--            -
S O  NyC0 R A          i.
3hCHI UAHU                                         -          STAEe         g       Coo/ tC H I H U A H U A  Ao
MEXICO
El Fuerte              X,
XoO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t eofoCvi   \ 
- tt           4,*t;/\                                                                                                         ItttIzt
tgLOS MOC HI1S   F                    de Leyvro    ,r'   0                              /                         00 040 009/9tnh 000v. 00 90 09t
<gW \ ~~~~~~~~r-   tJ                                  Son0tEcogo _ r-rto  O U oudze
TOPOLOBABAM8(   Guaavohse   M ocori nto                            
pAngostur/sS~~~~~~ ABcadirog                    I
CD~~~~~~A                                                                                   AA -il  C   W
-25'X                                                                                                                                  25-
''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p- 6\       \X-4
MEDIUM~~~ SIZEO CIIE  /I PRJC                             torz 
0           20   40    60                 J- EOn-a
de~~~~~~XDrd' Lev                         | 0GsL   ee                    _
*   <ILOMTES- ____________ _                        de idal
-24°                             10XICO               n> '/
Railroads | \\ c; f~~Bad    oguto
,~~~~~~~~~~ :U   River                                  N                     G\  0 Cncri
-25'                     nentoa Budre                                                                               \ 
MEDIUM    SIZ     CITIES   II    PRLOJ^ECT             La 20k 40  0                                             140 
STATE~~ ~ ~~ OF" SIAO
'CUIACN  'pprise    Ciie
I9-     :Mi                    10-R0-o0-adsTNe
Seonar Road






13RD 16393
tiN               5                                           IO                                                             ON-                          MAY 1931
K  UNITED   STATES   OF   AMERICA
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ Ensnd .X  I-,C
t'u. 1'<W  b>50noto               \MEDIUM  SIZE CITIES
K                         I ---'" t  'tpe FTr---                                                                                                         STATE WATER COMPANY
BAJA 4nullFelipe    <     Nepoiese49UnPr -:      ,f '--X v                                                                                    WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT m
55.3 MORN/A  /                                                                                                  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LCATIONS OF APPRAISED SUBPROJECTS
SN  507R 'TN                                                                                                                                            AND PILOT STATE WATER COMPANY
.< > a >t ' t g : C ; \, / S V ~~~~~~~~~H          V A j
j  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~C cO                                                                           'Store Pilot P-o1ct
-~~~~~~~    r    r'  0r0,.   7~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~.d   aM,p,,,do
>~~  4)                                                                            Med,uor Sjaofll,nppraitod cities~~~~~widlj7 M.- S
A      ii                  (                                                /                                              <0" *Macl  Meiu Size  <                    IandX,utieslILounsll8bME0 ,lP13 ME
_4                       4'     \           'r                                                                                                     Natio .  nal capitol  
Stote -.pitl.S
RA   A/ N*., -  M','f 
,CAI I*RNIA 4%d - -                                                                                                                                  -  odd highways
Si~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                  OrC,fi.,                   /    FuxiuSereeld ai toads
PoeltoEssond3;(+ _  5' R                     !    GUATEM- Roi--oad
I;O-~~~~~~                                                                                                           ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ it"' <"  901'{
4cc 0 0 B A N 6 ~~~~~~~            < ~TAMAWIlfAS
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AC   CAisca          dCe
frA(/F/C  O(AAtcr ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&IMotida.                                                                                                                     
A Al                      L 7&'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'JCTNvio{
SOtft4                                                                                                                                                                                     PteA Gruetid S
V.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,S,
CHOA   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~CAC  VlaamC<                                    I
wiltS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                         BLLIZE Oc
P-,rr E-codj? V -
HONDURAS
tteeeuroetftocteeotdOdt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~90



