Document of
The World Bank                            i
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3532-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100.3 MILLION
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
April 21, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and
their official duties. Its contents may not oth



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex $)
Since December 20, 1982, Mexico has the following exchange rates: (i)
a sliding controlled rate for priority imports, most exports and service
payments on foreign debt; this was set at 95 pesos per dollar on December 20
and was about 110 on April 14, 1983; and (ii) a free exchange rate for all
other transactions; in recent days the free peso has been trading around 150
per dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Acronyms
BC                Beneficiary Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Companies
BANOBRAS          National Bank for Public Works
(Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A.)
CEAPAS            Sinaloa State Water Board
(Comision Estatal de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Sinaloa)
DIGESAPA          General Directorate of Water Supply and Sewerage Systems
(Direccion General de Sistemas de Agua Potable y
Alcantarillado)
FIFAPA            Investment Fund for Water Supply and Sewerage Works
(Fondo de Inversiones Financieras para Agua Potable y
Alcantarillado)
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
SAHOP             Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
(Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas)
SARH              Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
(Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos)
SEDUE             Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology
(Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia)
SHCP              Secretariat of Finances
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
Loan & Project Summary
Borrower:               Banco Nacional  de Obras  y Servicios Publicos,  S.A.
(BANOBRAS).
Guarantor:        United Mexican States
Beneficiaries:   Autonomous water supply and sewerage companies at the state
or municipal level, and the Sinaloa Water Board (CEAPAS)
Amount:           US$100.3 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:            Fifteen years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending Terms: The beneficiaries would receive the peso equivalent of the
loan and would repay FIFAPA, the Trust Fund for Water Supply
and Sewerage Works of BANOBRAS, in 15 years after a grace
period equal to the shorter of the construction period or 4
years, at an interest rate of 25 percent per annum.   The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:      The project consists of three components:   (a) a construc-
tion program and a pilot program for the Sinaloa State Water
Board including an institutional development program and a
health education program in Sinaloa that could be replicated
in other states throughout the country;  (b)   provision of
new and improved water supply facilities, laboratory equip-
ment,   transmission  pipelines,   domestic  and  production
metering facilities, sewer interceptors and outfalls, sewage
pumping stations and sewage treatment plants in medium-size
cities; and (c) institutional support to SEDUE and FIFAPA.
Project Risks:   The risks are associated with the institutional aspects of
the pilot program, namely, the Sinaloa Water Board and the
five Regional Companies under the Board, and with the
possible reluctance of some of the appraised municipalities
to borrow from FIFAPA at the new 25 percent interest rate.
To reduce these risks, the Sinaloa Water Board component is
proposed    to    be    closely    monitored    by    SEDUE,
that  has   acquired   experience   in  providing   technical
assistance  programs  under  the  previous  loans,  and  water
projects are being prepared in a number of medium-size
cities that could replace any eventual drop-outs from the
already appraised sub-projects.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Cost of Project:
Local        Foreign        Total
-----(in million US$)----------
State Water Company        31.4         32.0           63.4
Medium Size Cities         55.0         55.5           110.5
Institutional Support       2.1          1.0             3.1
Total Base Cost            88.5         88.5          177.0
Price Contingencies         4.5         11.5            16.0
Project Cost               93.0        100.0          193.0
Front-end fee on
Bank loan                  -           0.3            0.3
Total                      93.0        100.3           193.3
These costs include the value added tax, VAT, but exclude
US$53.7 million in interest during construction, which would
be financed by FIFAPA . Detailed project costs are given in
Annex IV.
Financing                                    US$million        %
Plan:           IBRD                          100.3          52
Federal Government            93.0          48
Estimated                                     (US$ million equivalent)
Disbursements:                                    Bank Fiscal Year
FY84    85      86      87     88      89    90
Annual          7.2   25.1   39.0   16.8    8.2    2.0   2.0
Cumulative      7.2   32.3   71.3   88.1   96.3   98.3 100.3
Rate of Return:  An aggregate ERR of 17 percent has been estimated for the
appraised subprojects.
Staff Appraisal
Report:         Report No. 4007-ME, dated April 19, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A THIRD MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A., (BANOBRAS) with the
Guarantee of United Mexican States for the equivalent of US$100.3 million to
help finance a Third Medium Size Cities and Sinaloa State Water Project. The
loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the stand-
ard variable interest rate.   The Government would bear the exchange risk.
The Peso equivalent of the loan would be re-lent to the beneficiary water
companies, which would repay in 15 years, after a grace period equal to the
shorter of the construction period of the subproject or 4 years, with
interest at 25 percent per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY1/
2.          The Bank's last economic report on Mexico, "Mexico:  Development
Strategy - Prospects and Problems" (3605-ME), was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on August 31, 1981.  Since then the Mexican economy has faced
severe economic and financial strains.   An economic mission to undertake an
in-depth analysis of the macro-economic developments and prospects for the
economy, visited Mexico in February 1983.   Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
Background
3.          Mexico's GDP grew at an average rate of 6 percent a year in real
terms between 1950 and 1980, yielding an increase of 3 percent a year in
output per capita.   This rate of expansion was somewhat better than the
experience of other middle income LDCs.   The GDP growth was composed of a
satisfactory balance between agriculture (which grew at 3.5 percent a year)
and industry (which grew at an average rate of 7.5 percent).   The sustained
and rapid industrialization resulted in the rise of the share of the indus-
trial sector in GDP from 26 percent in 1950 to 37 percent in 1980. A similar
change took place in the structure of foreign trade, with manufactured
products accounting for an increasing share of total exports until 1975.
Finally, the last thirty years witnessed the passage of Mexico from a rural
to a largely urban society. In 1980, the fraction of total population living
in urban areas was estimated at two-thirds, while it was less than 30 percent
in 1950.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Agricultural Marketing Project for Perishables (P-3504-ME of March
31, 1983). However, some minor changes have been introduced in paras. 6
and 13.



- 2 -
4.          The dynamic private sector was the main engine of growth in the
Mexican economy even though the public sector continued to account for well
over one-third of domestic capital formation until the mid-1970s, i.e. before
the rise of the oil sector that greatly enhanced the resources available to
the Government.  The public sector's role in Mexico was seen both to set the
pace and pattern of economic growth and to help correct the effects of an
uneven distribution of resources on the relative position of the poorer
segments of the population and of the less favored regions of the country.
The Government's success in this regard, however, was only partial.  While
the living standards of many Mexicans experienced considerable improvement,
the income of the poor farmers and marginal urban dwellers lagged behind.
Consequently, contrasts within the Mexican economy remain conspicuous.
5.         In the early seventies, the Government sought to build up infra-
structure, expand basic industries, stimulate agricultural output and
implement  massive  social  programs.    The  difficulties  it  encountered  in
mobilizing resources to attain all these aims simultaneously led to excessive
public sector deficits, while domestic supply rigidities caused a large part
of the aggregate demand to spill over into imports.   Efforts  to redress
financial imbalances by strengthening public revenues fell short of their
goal and, in September 1976, the Government abandoned the fixed parity of the
peso and imposed a strict stabilization program on the economy in the context
of the Extended Facility arrangements with the IMF.
Economic Performance, 1976-1981
6.          The last Administration, which took office in December 1976, saw
the control of inflation and the improvement of the current account balance
as its most urgent tasks.  It succeeded in reducing the rate of increase of
domestic prices by half between 1977 and 1978 while, at the same time, the
current account deficit decreased by over 40 percent.  In 1978, the economy
resumed its path of rapid growth.  One of the major constraints on economic
growth - the availability of foreign exchange - had been greatly relaxed by
the successful exploitation of Mexico's oil reserves, which at the end of
1982 stood at 72 billion barrels.   Oil not only contributed directly to
foreign exchange earnings and Government revenue, but it also enabled the
country  to carry a much  larger external debt.   The additional resources
enabled the purchase of raw materials and capital goods needed to sustain a
high GDP growth, and allowed the Government to embark on an ambitious
expenditure program.
7.        The public expenditure grew in real terms 20 percent a year between
1979 and 1981.   Revenues grew more slowly, thus causing the public sector
deficit to rise rapidly.   As a proportion of GDP, the deficit rose to 15
percent in 1981, compared to a ratio of around 7 percent in the preceding
several years.  Despite a high rate of mobilization of private savings into
the financial system, the Government had to resort increasingly to foreign
borrowing.   Although public sector foreign indebtedness, as a percentage of
GDP, had fallen from 31 percent in 1977 to 20 percent in 1980, it rebounded
again to more than 30 percent in 1981.  By 1980, the rapid rise in aggregate
demand was beginning to exert pressure on prices, and domestic inflation
reached 26 percent. Since the nominal exchange rate had remained practically
stable since 1977, the higher Mexican inflation resulted in an appreciation



of the peso in real terms.   By 1980 the competitive  edge gained after the
1976 devaluation had been lost. This made non-oil exports progressively less
attractive, while imports rose rapidly at 30 percent a year.
8.          On the positive side, the economic growth rate accelerated to over
7 percent during 1978-81, and resulted in an improvement of the labor
market. Conditions were created not only to absorb the new entrants into the
labor force, but also to lower open unemployment, which is estimated to have
*        fallen to 4-5 percent of the labor force in the modern sector.  The Adminis-
tration also strengthened its support to agriculture, reversing the trend
towards a worsening trade balance on basic foods, containing to some extent
rural migration, and providing small farmers with access to more efficient
production methods. Finally, a combination of fiscal incentives and adminis-
trative regulations had a positive effect on spatial decentralization, one of
the major policy objectives of the Administration.
Recent Developments
9.         The state of the Mexican economy witnessed a progressive deteriora-
tion since about the middle of 1981, and the Government's actions could be
seen as responses to, instead of guiding, the events.  By 1981, the need to
bring domestic inflation under control and to help restore the competitive-
ness of the non-oil exports had become apparent.  The Administration chose to
follow a policy of gradual adjustment, and expected the deceleration in the
growth of demand, to be brought about through slowing the rise in public
expenditures, would  reduce  inflation.   With  a  favorable  outlook  for oil
exports, no major problems were expected on the external sector, and a path
of gradual adjustment to a rate of growth of 6-7 percent appeared sustainable
in the long run and was considered to be less costly in terms of inflation
and unemployment than more drastic stabilization measures.  Thus, the Admin-
istration decreed a 4 percent cut in its expenditures, reintroduced import
licenses on 80 percent of imports, tightened public procurement procedures,
and allowed a more rapid depreciation of the peso.
10.         Unfavorable external circumstances as well as the ineffectiveness
of the policies adopted were at the root of the deteriorating economic condi-
tions in 1981-82.  On the one hand, the prospects for the world oil market
worsened in the second half of 1981, and the actual oil revenues, at US$14
billion, turned out to be 25 percent below what had been estimated in the
budget.  There was also the tightening of the international financial market,
with a steep rise  in the interest rates, which greatly increased  the debt
servicing  burden, since  the  bulk  of Mexico's external borrowing  had  been
contracted  at variable  interest rates.   By  the  end  of 1981, the  current
account deficit reached  $11.3  billion,  or  4.5  percent of GDP.   But the
Government also  failed  to  control public  expenditures, which  continued  to
rise faster than revenues right through 1982, resulting in an unprecedented
high  public  sector budget deficit, estimated  at 16.5 percent of GDP.   In
1981, half of the financing gap could be met through external funds. Net new
borrowing in that year amounted to US$18 billion (53 percent higher than the
previous year) of which half consisted of short-term debt.  During 1982, the
foreign commercial lenders became progressively wary of extending new loans
or rolling over the past ones as the country's financial and economic
condition worsened.



- 4 -
11.         Although the budget approved for 1982 was a moderate one, showing
virtually no real increase in expenditures, the belief that the oil market
would remain slack and doubts about financial discipline in the public sector
fueled the expectation that the Government would not succeed in reducing the
deficit and  bringing  down  the  rate  of  inflation.    In  fact, the  general
expectation was that inflation would worsen.  Raising the minimum wage rate
by 34 percent in December 1981 and the award of a 24 percent wage increase to
public employees did little to improve the confidence in the management of
the economy.  The exchange markets continued  to react unfavorably, despite
the authorities allowing the peso to depreciate in February 1982 by some 70
percent, from Mex$28 to Mex$47 to the US dollar.
12.         The Administration also announced an adjustment program following
the devaluation.   On April 19, 1982, a 17-point stabilization  program was
decreed, with further cuts in public expenditures, increases in public goods
and  service  prices,  and  a  ceiling  on  domestic  deficit  financing.    The
announcement of these measures failed to assuage the fears of the interna-
tional financing community, and capital outflows persisted. On August 5, the
shortage of foreign exchange forced the Bank of Mexico to withdraw once again
from the exchange market. Following this a series of policy and institution-
al changes were introduced, the most salient of which included a rigorous
control of foreign exchange transactions, a dual exchange rate system (of
Mex$50 and Mex$70 to the US dollar), nationalization of the domestic
commercial banks, and the elimination of the US dollar accounts held in
Mexico (the so-called Mex-dollar accounts) as they matured.  The Government
also requested the commercial banks to roll over principal repayments on
public debt falling due during 90 days from August 23, 1982 (amounting to
US$12 billion).   Shortly  thereafter, the Government approached  the IMF for
the granting of an Extended Facility, which was finally approved in the
amount of SDR 3.6 billion on December 23, 1982.
13.        As part of the agreement with the Fund as well as on the initiative
of the new Administration of President Miguel de la Madrid (installed on
December 1), several reforms have been instituted.   The new Government has
committed itself to a drastic reduction in the public sector deficit, to 8.5
percent of GDP in 1983, with further reductions intended for the following
two years. The public sector prices, especially for petroleum products, have
been raised  drastically.   The regulations  governing  foreign  exchange have
been modified.  There continue to be two basic exchange rates (a controlled
crawling rate of about Mex$110 per US dollar for specified transactions and a
floating rate for all other transactions).   In addition, an accounting rate
of Mex$70 for the US dollar is used primarily for servicing public debt.  As
regards the external debt, the Government has reached an agreement with the
foreign commercial banks on the restructuring of US$9 billion of the short-
term public debt and $10.6 billion of medium and long-term debt due for
repayment up to the end of 1984; rescheduling documents are now being
executed between the borrowing agencies and their lenders.
Prospects
14.          It is particularly difficult at this stage to predict the course
the Mexican economy will follow in the next few years. It is, however, clear
that the period ahead will be one of austerity and sacrifices on the part of



the Mexican population.  The factor which helped to postpone difficult policy
decisions in the past - the abundant foreign exchange - cannot be expected to
provide a cushion in the future.  Although the Mexican economy can count on
substantial natural resources, an educated and skilled labor force, and
well-developed  institutions,  the  prospects  of  growth  in  the  short  and
medium-term will depend basically on:   (i) the deflationary effects of the
proposed sharp reduction in the budget deficit; (ii) the constraint on
resource availability imposed by the need to service the large external debt;
and (iii) the specific measures the Government adopts to stimulate production
and exports of agricultural and manufactured products.
15.            The recent budget deficits, a substantial part of which  was
financed  by external sources, cannot be sustained  in the future.   In the
absence of a quick recovery of the oil market - the chances for which are
slim - the Government will have drastically to reduce expenditures and to
raise revenue through increases in taxes and prices of public goods and
services.      But  such  deflationary   measures  will  also   likely   affect
production. Under generally favorable conditions, a reduction of the budget
deficit to 8.5 percent of GDP - the target under the IMF agreement - could
mean no growth at all in the national output in 1983, with a fair chance that
it might actually decline.   This should, however, considerably  lessen  the
inflationary pressures in the economy.  Once a reasonable budget balance has
been established, and it may take some time, the economic health of the
economy would be restored, and conditions favorable to steady growth would
have been created.
16.         The constraint on economic growth imposed by the external debt is
likely  to be longer lasting.   Total external public  debt amounted  to  $53
billion ($11 billion in short-term) at the end of 1981 and over $57 billion
($9 billion in short-term) by August 22, 1982. The private debt is estimated
at $22 billion.   The public debt service  is estimated at $14.4 billion  in
1982, and the interest payments alone could amount to $12 billion in 1983.
For 1982, the debt service ratio is estimated at almost 50 percent, and the
ratio of the external debt to GDP of about 45 percent.  Mexico is estimated
to require over $8 billion in foreign borrowing for 1983 to meet its foreign
exchange needs and obligations. The IMF facility is expected to provide $1.3
billion, official sources $2 billion, and a $5 billion commitment has already
been signed with commercial banks.
17.        To avoid another financial crisis in a few years, there is need to
ensure  that  the  country's  debt  servicing  capacity  improves  quickly.    A
critical element in this is the growth of the non-oil economy, specifically
agriculture and industry, which are the principal earners and savers of
foreign exchange.  Although, a reduction in the budget deficit is likely to
impose limits on the overall growth of the economy, appropriate incentive
policies are needed to stimulate the growth of agriculture and manufacturing,
which are largely private sector activities.
18.        The country would continue to face structural problems in the years
to come, related mainly to unemployment, poverty and unequal interpersonal
and inter-regional distribution of income.  Efforts were made in the past to
improve the living conditions of the poorer segments of the population.   A
family planning program started in 1972 assisted in bringing the growth rate



- 6 -
of the population to an estimated annual average of 2.6 percent, down from
3.5  percent in  the  1970s.    To  tackle  the  problems  of  malnutrition  and
increasing dependence on foreign food, the previous Administration launched
the SAM (Mexican Food System) Program, aimed at increasing self-sufficiency
in basic foods, providing for minimum nutritional needs of the poor and
increasing  rural employment.   The new Administration has abandoned  the SAM
strategy and is eliminating many of the producer's subsidies included in the
Program, which were very costly and of questionable efficiency.  In the last
few years, the Government has placed greater emphasis on the promotion of
small scale irrigation, rehabilitation of underutilized existing irrigation
works and provision of credit and technical assistance for the development of
rainfed agriculture.
19.         The main urban-regional problems are:   growing congestion, pollu-
tion, high cost of services (especially water) and other management problems
that stem from the continued growth of Mexico City (already the third most
populous metropolitan area in the world and moving rapidly to become the
first) and Monterrey and Guadalajara, located in the dry, densely populated
central plateau; and retarded development, poverty and great difficulty in
providing better jobs or adequate public services to the two-fifths of all
Mexicans who live in small, scattered rural centers. Several steps have been
taken in the past to confront these problems, including an administrative
reorganization and the elaboration of a comprehensive National Urban Plan in
1978 and of a National Industrial Development Plan in 1979.
20.        Restoration of a high and sustained rate of growth will provide the
strongest weapon  to  tackle  the  long-term  problems  mentioned  above.   At
present, Mexico is going through a period of adjustment, which dictates lower
real growth and employment generation in the next few years.  However, this
will afford an opportunity to reappraise many of the past years' goals and
policy instruments, and provide a sounder basis for Mexico's development.
The new Administration has shown already its ability to take difficult and
politically unpopular decisions.
21.          The external debt problems have been described in para 16.  The
current debt service ratio is below the peak of 66.2 percent reached in 1979,
but still very high.  With the restructing  of the external debt, the debt
service ratio is expected to remain around  45 percent until 1987, when the
first repayments of the restructured loans would start.  Thereafter, the debt
service ratio would start rising unless steps are taken to foster a rapid
growth of export earnings.  Debt service on Bank loans amounted to about 3
percent of public debt service in 1981; this ratio is projected to remain
about the  same during  the  mid-1980s.   The Bank  currently  holds about 6
percent of Mexico's total medium and long-term public debt, and this ratio is
not likely to change significantly over the next few years.  In view of the
medium  and  long  term potential of the  economy and  provided  that the  new
Administration continues to address forcefully the challenges outlined
before, Mexico is considered creditworthy for borrowing on conventional
terms.   In view of the country's estimated foreign exchange needs over the
next few years, financing of ongoing and new projects should include some
local costs.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 2/
Bank Operations
22.         As of March 31, 1983, Mexico had received 77 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$5,749 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 50 loans totalling US$2,724.6 million were fully disbursed.  The Bank
held US$4,795.8 million, of which US$2,085.0 million had not yet been dis-
bursed.  Some 46 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural
development, 17 percent for industry, 12 percent for power, and 14 percent
for transportation; the remaining 11 percent has been for water supply,
tourism, urban development, vocational training and pollution control pro-
jects.  Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31,
1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.         Of the US$5.7 billion total lending, about US$2.6 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the
commercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal
of investments in agriculture, industry and tourism.  These credit programs
have facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale
industrial enterprises based on productive investment plans rather than
collateralized credit.
24.        The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978
to 1981 which significantly improved project implementation. Government and
Bank officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater
attention was focused in Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these
measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented satisfac-
torily until mid-1982 and disbursements rose from US$91 million in FY78 to
US$448 million  in FY82.   However, the  present financial crisis  is  again
causing  delays  in  the  provision  of counterpart funds, and  proposals  for
special actions are under preparation to help the Government ease the coun-
terpart funding constraints on the implementation of projects.
IFC Operations
25.         As of March 31, 1983, IFC had made investment commitments in com-
panies in Mexico, for a total of US$551.2 million, of which US$411.6 million
had been sold, repaid or cancelled.  A summary statement of IFC investments
is presented in Annex II.
2/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Agricultural Marketing Project for Perishables (P-3054-ME of March
31, 1983).  Changes have been introduced in paras. 22-25, 27, 28 and 32.



-8-
Bank Strategy
26.        The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico in the past six years
have been to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribu-
tion of the benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that make,
directly or indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment;
(c) help reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (d) help break
bottlenecks preventing  rapid growth.   Under the present circumstances, the
Bank also intends to support the Government's stabilization program through
quick disbursing operations and assistance to increase non-oil export
earnings, and to participate in an intensive macro and sector policy dialogue
to support design and implementation of appropriate development policies.
27.        Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the national population
living in the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector
for its lending.  The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four
goals:    first,  to  increase  productivity  of  presently  cultivated  lands;
second, to improve the productivity of small farmers; third, to complement
infrastructure   investments  with  support  services,  such   as  extension,
marketing programs and credit; and fourth, to promote employment generating
investments in rural areas. The Bank has made 13 loans in FYs77-82 totalling
US$1,834.4 million for irrigation, rural development and agricultural, agro-
industrial and livestock credit programs.  A US$175 million loan for a rural
development project and a US$180 million loan for an irrigation rehabilita-
tion project were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82, and a US$138.4
million loan for San Fernando rainfed agricultural development was approved
in early FY83. A US$115 million loan for marketing perishables was approved
by  the Executive Directors  in April, 1983.   Several projects  for rainfed
agriculture, regional development and rural credit are in preparation.
28.          Bank lending  for industry has aimed  at:   (a) reduction  of the
balance of payments deficit; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away
from the major and increasingly congested urban areas; and (c) promoting
greater employment.   A  steel project which  the Bank helped  structure  and
finance is now operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west
coast of Mexico, and the city in which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is
developing into a new growth pole.   Four loans for industrial projects  to
promote the development of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises, to
finance expansion of small- and medium-scale mining, and to support an indus-
trial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors in
FYs78-80.   A loan  for a vocational training  project was approved  by  the
Executive Directors in July 1981; it is assisting a program to increase the
supply  of skilled workers and  technicians.   A US$152.3  million  loan  for
development of a capital goods industries project and a US$60 million loan
for pollution control were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82.  The
capital goods project has been revised to set up a pilot export development
fund to help alleviate the current foreign exchange shortage confronting
Mexican exporters.   A follow-up small- and medium-scale industries project
and an export development operation to help Mexico to promote its exports are
being processed.



- 9 -
29.           Bank lending for physical infrastructure has been focused on
regional development and strengthening of institutions  and sector policies.
A highway sector project (FY79) and the fourth railway project (FY81) support
these goals.   The first and  second medium  size cities water  supply and
sewerage projects (FY76 and 81) reinforce the planning, management and
finance of specialized water supply and sewerage institutions at the federal
and municipal levels, and contribute to the establishment of tariffs more
closely related to costs.
30.        The Government has adopted a National Urban Development Plan that
spells  out  its regional  development  priorities  in operational  terms.   A
project to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area
was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second urban project
for oil-producing southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors
in FY81.   A loan for the preparation of a deconcentration program for the
Mexico City Region was approved by the Executive Directors in August 1982.
31.         The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE (a
similar institute under the Ministry of Programming and Budget) in training
Government staff in project preparation,  monitoring  and evaluation.   EDI
assistance is directed at courses on urban and regional development, agricul-
ture, rural development and agro-industries.  The Bank has also assisted the
Mexican authorities in training personnel for managing water supply and
industrial credit projects.
32.         The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral  aid to Mexico.   The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$2,974.3  million as of March 31, 1983.  Over 50 percent of the
total has gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the
balance for transportation, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism
infrastructure, education, municipal development and pre-investment. The IDB
and the Bank have coordinated their assistance on several projects. Each has
made loans for the national integrated rural development program (PIDER),
agricultural  and  livestock  credit,  small-  and  medium-scale  industries
development,  and hotel  development  projects.   The International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a
rural development project in the state of Oaxaca which was appraised by the
Bank's staff and for which the Bank is acting as cooperating institution for
administering the loan.
33.         Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer and tourism projects in
Mexico have been co-financed by several bilateral export credit agencies and
commercial banks.   In January  1982,  Mexico borrowed US$500 million from
commercial banks to provide complementary financing for Bank-assisted pro-
jects where project specific co-financing would be difficult.



- 10 -
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
34.       Mexico has an unusual mismatch between water resources and popula-
tion concentration.   Rainfall ranges from 100 mm per year in dry areas to
5,000 mm in the tropical low lands. Population is scarce in areas with heavy
rainfall,  while  dry  areas  are  heavily  populated.    About  82  percent  of
Mexico's surface water resources are found below 500 meters of elevation, but
76 percent of the population is located, and 80 percent of the industrial
output is produced, above this level.
35.        The 1980 population of Mexico was 67.4 million of which 44.6 mil-
lion,  or 66  percent,  lived  in  urban  centers  and  22.8 million  in rural
areas.   Population growth has declined from 3.5 percent p.a.  in the early
1970's to 2.6 percent p.a. at present.  The Government is trying to improve
the pattern of population distribution through the policies put forward in
the National Urban Development Plan and the National Industrial Development
Plan.
Service Levels and Past Investments
36.          The percentage of total population with access to water supply
systems increased from 49 percent in 1970 to 58 percent in 1981.   Sewerage
service levels increased during the same period from 37 percent to 38 per-
cent.   An estimated 30 million people remain without access to safe water
supply, while about 43 million people lack access to sewerage facilities.
37.         Water service coverage through house connections in urban areas
other than Mexico City, however, decreased from 65 percent in 1970 to 55
percent in 1981, and sewerage service levels decreased from 55 percent to
about  43 percent  over  the  same period.   These decreases  were offset by
rural increases in access to water services from 21 percent in 1970 to 51
percent in 1981 (44 percent through house connections and the remainder by
public  standpipes).    Rural  sewerage  service  levels  increased  during  the
same period from 4 percent to 13 percent.
38.         During 1974-1980, annual investments in the sector totalled Mex$8
billion  (US$320  million  in  1980  prices).    Investments  in  rural  areas
increased  from  34 percent  to 50 percent  of  total  sector  investments  in
1977-1980.   On average, Federal funds financed 50 percent of total sector
investment.   These funds were provided as grants or loans.   Most of the
loans were interest free, with repayment periods of 10-20 years, and in
practice many were never repaid.   The Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios
Publicos (BANOBRAS) is the main financial agency for the sector outside the
capital city.   Its Trust Fund for Water Supply and Sewerage Works (FIFAPA)
has financed 7.2 percent of total federal investment in the sector.   FIFAPA
is being supported by the Bank through loans 1186-ME and 1913-ME, and would
receive financing under the proposed project.   FIFAPA's role in the sector
is particularly important because it has permitted pressure on the federal
Government for grant funds to be reduced and has introduced on a large
scale the concept of cost recovery in water supply and sewerage projects.
As a result, in 1983 the Government intends to channel through FIFAPA about
80 percent of the federal funds for the sector, and thereby significantly
decrease grant funds for water supply and sewerage works.



- 11 -
Government Objectives and Strategy
39.         The Government's specific water supply and sanitation objectives
are to provide, by the year 2000, 95 percent of the urban and 70 percent of
the rural population with piped water, and 80 percent of the urban and 42
percent of the rural population with sewerage or sanitation services.   The
intermediate targets for the year 1990 are to extend water service to about
83 percent in urban areas and 58 percent in rural areas, and sewerage service
to about 62 percent in urban areas and 27 percent in rural areas.  Although
these goals appear feasible from the point of view of the institutional
capacity of the sector, financial constraints might affect the realization of
these targets.
Sector Organization
40.       Since 1976,  the Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
(SAHOP) was in charge of planning, construction, supervision, operation and
maintenance of the water supply and sewerage works in urban centers other
than Mexico City and in rural areas.   In late 1980, the responsibility for
operation and maintenance of the water supply and sewerage systems was trans-
ferred to the states.   In December 1982, the new Administration established
the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology (SEDUE) and assigned to it
responsibility for the planning and supervision of all water supply and
sewerage systems in the country, except for those in Mexico City.   At that
time, responsibility for construction of new systems or improvement of
existing ones was legally transferred to the states. However, the Government
has decided that SEDUE will continue to be in charge of construction during a
transitional period until the states are able to handle their new responsi-
bilities. SEDUE also provides technical assistance to the states.
41.          The states created water and sewerage companies to operate and
maintain the systems  transferred  to them.   The scope of responsibilities
entrusted to these new companies range from those with state-wide responsi-
bilities to those responsible for a single system only.   Some local water
supply and  sewerage systems have  not yet been established as autonomous
entities and continue to be operated by the municipal departments in charge
of these services.   The proposed project  includes a strong institutional
development component for one of the state companies, the Sinaloa State Water
Board (CEAPAS) and its five Regional Companies with a view to set up a model
to implement the decentralization plans of the Federal Government.
Bank Role and Strategy
42.       The Bank has been assisting Mexico with the implementation of water
supply and sewerage projects since 1973.   Loan 909-ME of June 1973, helped
finance a US$155 million bulk water supply project for the Mexico City
metropolitan area.   The project was completed in 1981, after delays due to
inadequate preparation and institutional problems.   The Project Completion
Report and the Project Performance Audit Report indicate that the main
project objectives were broadly achieved.   The Bank has made two loans to
FIFAPA to finance water supply and sewerage projects for medium-size cities
(Loans 1186-ME of January 1976 and 1913-ME of January 1981).  Both loans are



- 12 -
fully committed, and the financial and operating performance of the benefi-
ciary water and sewerage companies has been satisfactory. To comply with the
financial covenants in 1983, further action on tariff increases will be
required in four of the thirteen cities included in these projects by the end
of the year.
43.         The Bank has also financed water supply and sewerage works under
several projects in tourism, urban and rural development.   Implementation
of these has been satisfacotry.
44.        Bank support to the FIFAPA scheme should permit sector lending in
the forthcoming years, to support the implementation of the Government's
plans to decentralize sector responsibilities and apply sound financial
policies. Technical assistance to the sector's institutions, introduction of
low-cost technologies and acceleration of provision of basic services to the
low-income population of Mexico's growing urban centers would be the corner-
stone of this strategy.   Emphasis would also be given to pollution control,
solid waste disposal and rural water supply and sanitation as the objectives
in medium-size cities and state water companies are progressively achieved.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.         The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission in April
1981, and was prepared by BANOBRAS and SAHOP with the help of local consul-
tants and Bank missions.   The project was  appraised  in March 1982 with
post-appraisal in February 1983, after the new Administration confirmed the
sector's priority. Negotiations took place in April, 1983, and the Mexican
delegation was headed by Mr. German Sandoval,  of BANOBRAS.   An appraisal
report, "Staff Appraisal Report - Medium-Size Cities and Sinaloa State Water
Project" (Report No.4007-ME) is being distributed separately.
Project Objectives
46.       Water supply and sewerage programs have been accorded high priority
in Mexico even at a time of budget austerity, on grounds of employment
generation  and  social  impact.    The  proposed  project  would  support  the
Government's goals in the sector, improve the environmental and health
conditions of the population, strengthen the Sinaloa State Water Board
(CEAPAS) and the Regional Companies under its control by improving their
managerial, administrative, financial and technical procedures, and extend
water supply services to about 1.4 million and sewerage services to about
1.2 million additional  people.   The project  objectives will  be achieved
through the implementation of three components, described below.
The CEAPAS Component
47.        The objective of this component is to help CEAPAS develop into an
institution that would serve as a model for establishing   efficient water
supply and sewerage companies at the state level.   This component accounts
for about 36 percent of the total project costs and would include the
following programs:



- 13 -
a)   An institutional development program aimed at analyzing the
organization and managerial procedures of CEAPAS and at promoting changes
that would develop CEAPAS into an efficient, financially self-sufficient
institution able to assume the responsibility for construction.   The program
would provide support for improving the water and sewerage companies in other
states in the future.
b) A construction program in the cities of Culiacan, Los Mochis,
Topolobambo and Mazatlan (see attached Map IBRD 16393) that would benefit
about 400,000 people and would consist of increased water production, treat-
ment, storage, distribution facilities, new house connections, extension of
the sewerage network, outfalls and construction of a sewerage treatment
plant.
c) A pilot health education program to promote better sanitation
habits among the population in the areas where new facilities would be built
under the project.   This program would be carried out by consultants.
d) A maintenance of equipment program, including purchase, opera-
tion and maintenance of meter repair shops, topography equipment, excavators,
water quality control laboratories, and leak detection and communication
equipment for CEAPAS and the Regional Companies.
The Medium-Size Cities Component
48.        The medium-size cities component would support the Federal Govern-
ment's strategy of promoting the development of basic infrastructure in
medium-size cities for improving population distribution in the country and
develop basic infrastructure for industrial growth. The program would improve
the water supply and sewerage systems in medium-size cities outside the State
of Sinaloa.  Four subprojects accounting for about 22 percent of the project
costs have been appraised for the cities of Celaya, Colima, Ciudad Guzman and
Tapachula (see attached Map 16393). Additional subprojects would be selected
by FIFAPA/SEDUE for financing under the loan before December 31, 1984, with
the concurrence of the Bank.
49.         Works in the four appraised medium-size cities are representative
of this component and include the following elements:
(i) provision of new production facilities and improvement of
existing ones to meet demand through 1995;
(ii) chlorination of water supplies to provide bacteriologically
safe water and provision of laboratory equipment to control
water quality;
(iii) construction of transmission pipelines from the new production
facilities  to  the  distribution  systems,  and  provision  of
additional storage capacity;
(iv) extension of the water system to areas without service and
improvement of the water distribution system to increase
delivery capacity;



- 14 -
(v) installation of new metered house connections and provision
of meters for currently unmetered connections to cover 95
percent of all connections;
(vi) purchase and installation of production meters and meter
repair shops, and implementation of leak detection surveys
and leak detection and control programs to reduce unaccounted-
for water to about 25 percent by 1986;
(vii) construction of sewer interceptors and outfalls to eliminate
sewage discharge in populated areas;
(viii) extension of sewer pipes to areas without sewerage services;
(ix) construction of sewage pumping stations, where topographic
conditions preclude the use of gravity systems; and
(x) construction of sewage treatment plants where downstream use
requires improvement in water quality.
Institutional Support
50.          The third component consists of a technical assistance program,
including the purchase of support equipment, for SEDUE's General Directorate
for Water Supply and Sewerage Systems (DIGESAPA) and FIFAPA. This component
includes studies to establish the best solutions for the sector problems, and
would aim at improving the efficiency of the sector institutions.  The com-
ponent includes the revision of SEDUE's guidelines for project preparation.
The Borrower
51.         The Borrower will be BANOBRAS, which is also the Borrower in the
first and second Bank-financed water and sewerage projects for medium-size
cities  (Loans 1186-ME  and  1913-ME).   The federal Government controls  its
policies  and  directs  its  borrowings  and  lending  activities.    BANOBRAS'
normal credit operations carry interest rates of 6 to 15 percent less than
the ACF (average cost of borrowed funds), but it also lends for water sup-
ply and sewerage works through a soft window, the Municipal Development Fund
(Fondo Fiduciario Federal de Fomento Municipal) at 5 percent per annum, and
through  FIFAPA.   BANOBRAS' 1981 lending  program  amounted  to about US$2.1
billion, its net worth was US$334.7 million equivalent and its net profits
after taxes were US$37.58 million equivalent.
52.          FIFAPA is a trust fund under BANOBRAS that finances water and
sewerage investments in medium  size  cities.   FIFAPA has been instrumental
in introducing the practice of cost recovery and in helping the Federal
Government reduce its grants to the water supply and sewerage sector (see
para. 38).   FIFAPA is partially  funded  by the Bank through Loans 1186-ME
and  1913-ME and would serve as the channel for the proposed Loan.  FIFAPA
has since its beginning kept a satisfactory  financial situation.   To date,
FIFAPA has lent the equivalent of US$478 million.  FIFAPA will receive the
proceeds of the Bank loan as equity contribution, and will reimburse BANOBRAS
for interest on the loan expressed in local currency.  BANOBRAS  would repay



- 15 -
the loan to the Bank.   The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
FIFAPA would onlend the proceeds of the loan to the beneficiaries (see para.
54) under terms and conditions described in para. 63.
The Executing Agency
53.         The project will be executed by SEDUE through its General Direc-
torate of Water Supply and Sewerage Systems (DIGESAPA).   The newly created
Secretariat is staffed with qualified managers formerly with SAHOP, and has
experience in implementing the two previous loans.  SEDUE, through DIGESAPA,
will be in charge of project execution.   Since the Government intends to
transfer the responsibility for construction to the states, the legal docu-
ments allow for the possibility that SEDUE would delegate the responsibility
for the execution of the relevant components to water supply companies
complying with technical and administrative criteria satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 3.01(b)  of the draft Guarantee Agreement).   After  the transfer,
SEDUE would maintain responsibility for project supervision. SEDUE will also
provide assistance to all beneficiaries in management, accounting and all
areas of administration.
The Beneficiaries
54.       The beneficiaries of the proposed loan will be Autonomous Municipal
Water Companies (BC's) in medium-size cities, similar to those benefitting
from two earlier loans, and CEAPAS.  BC's will be in charge of administering
and operating the water supply and sewerage systems. At the time of apprais-
al four medium size cities and four cities under CEAPAS had already been
selected. Subprojects to be implemented in these cities account for about 60
percent of the project costs.  The remaining beneficiaries will be selected
before December 31, 1984, with the approval of the Bank (see para. 63), and
will also be autonomous companies.
55.         The financial performance of the appraised cities varies substan-
tially.   Working ratios range between 0.5 and 1.1.   Three of the cities
show a negative net income before interest.   The financial record is only
preliminary since fixed assets have been neither revalued, depreciated, nor
recorded properly.   These accounting deficiencies would be corrected in the
course of project implementation.
56.         CEAPAS, organized in September of 1981, is an autonomous public
entity in the State of Sinaloa, that acts as a regulating and coordinating
authority for the activities and investments of five semi-autonomous Regional
Water and Sewerage Companies (Rio Humaya, Rio Fuerte, Rio Baluarte, Rio Evora
and Rio Sinaloa - see Map IBRD-16392).  The Bank was consulted in the prepa-
ration of the by-laws of CEAPAS, which were recently approved by the State
legislature. Since the enforcement of the by-laws requires their publication
in the official gazette of the state of Sinaloa, such publication has been
made a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The Regional Companies own and eventually will operate all water
and sewerage systems in the state.   Less than 40 percent of the water and
sewerage systems in the state are presently under the Regional Companies'
management.  The Government aims at integrating all the state systems under
the CEAPAS Regional Companies by December 31, 1987 and a covenant to this



- 16 -
effect has been included in the legal documents (Schedule 4, para. B(ii) (2)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.          Only three Regional Companies (Rio Humaya,  Rio Fuerte and Rio
Baluarte)  are  currently  under  the  authority  of  CEAPAS.    The  other  two
Regional Companies (Rio Evora and Rio Sinaloa) are still in the process of
incorporation.   As  a condition  of disbursement  of loan proceeds  for the
CEAPAS component, the five Regional Companies should have been incorporated,
their organization should have been established and their key personnel
appointed.   (Schedule 1, para. 3(b) (iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).   At
present, CEAPAS lacks experience and competent manpower to properly regulate
and control the Regional Companies. The present organization of the Regional
Companies is also weak, but it is considered sufficient for the project
because of the technical assistance to be provided by SEDUE.   The institu-
tional development program mentioned in para.47(a) would correct the existing
deficiecies.
Project Execution
58.        Construction of the works will be carried out by SEDUE and/or the
BC's.   SEDUE will  supervise project  implementation through DIGESAPA,  that
will be properly staffed at all times (Section 4.02 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement) and will be in charge of preparing bidding documents and tender
analysis, and monitor project execution and compliance with subloan agree-
ments by the beneficiaries.   SEDUE will provide technical assistance to the
BC's and CEAPAS, including training (Sections 3.01(c) and 4.03(a) of the
draft Guarantee Agreement). For this purpose, the material already prepared
by the former SAHOP in all areas of management and accounting will be used.
The project would be completed by December 31, 1989.
59.          The role of SEDUE will be particularly important in the imple-
mentation of the CEAPAS component.    DIGESAPA will  be  in  charge  of  the
implementation of the institutional development program in Sinaloa, for which
terms of reference have already been prepared.    The hiring of acceptable
consultants to implement this part of the project would be a condition of
disbursements  for the CEAPAS component  (Schedule  1, para.  3(b)(i)  of the
draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).  As
part of the institutional development program, SEDUE will review the
financial aspects of CEAPAS and will prepare a scheme of fees to be paid by
the  Regional  Companies  to  CEAPAS.    The  establishment  of  such  scheme,
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  will  be a condition  of disbursements  for  the
subprojects in the State of Sinaloa (Schedule 1, para 3(b) (ii)of the draft
Loan Agreement).   SEDUE will present to the Bank for comments the diagnosis
of CEAPAS institutional problems by June 30, 1985, and a program satisfactory
to the Bank,  for implementing the required changes by December 31, 1987.
Thereafter, this program would be put into effect to the satisfaction of the
Bank (Section 3.01(f) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
60.       The condition of the water supply and sewerage network is deficient
in many cases.   SEDUE estimates that about 40 percent of the urban systems
and 70 percent of the rural systems are in urgent need of rehabilitation.
The level of unaccounted for water is estimated at between 30 and 50
percent.   In order to reduce this proportion,  SEDUE will carry out a leak



- 17 -
detection and control program in all beneficiary cities where unaccounted for
water represents more than 30 percent of total production (Section 3.06 of
the draft Guarantee Agreement).
61.       Since CEAPAS and its Regional Companies lack the expertise required
to prepare the monitoring indicators, these indicators will be prepared and
submitted to the Bank by DIGESAPA before December 31, 1984 (Section 3.05 of
the draft Guarantee Agreement).   The indicators will specify for each year
the targets in terms of percentage of population served with water and
sewerage services, the number of connections, volume sold, percentage of
unaccounted for water, number of employees per 1000 connections, average
tariff per cubic meter and working ratio.
62.        SEDUE will approve subprojects to be carried out in the Regional
Companies with a total cost of up to US$5 million equivalent.   All other
subprojects to be financed out of the loan would be sent to the Bank for
approval, and will include the proposed cost, project description, feasibi-
lity study, and all other information required to enable the Bank decide on
the suitability of the project (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The presentation to the Bank of satisfactory engineering designs for treat-
ment plants would be a condition of disbursement for the plants (Schedule 1,
para. 3(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Subloan Agreements
63.        FIFAPA would relend the proceeds of the Bank loan and Government
contribution to the BC's and CEAPAS.  The conclusion of satisfactory subsid-
iary loan agreements between FIFAPA and each sub-borrower will be a condition
of disbursement for the respective subproject (Schedule 1, para 3c (ii) of
the draft Loan Agreement).   An acceptable legal opinion on the validity of
each agreement in accordance with the Mexican law would also be a condition
of disbursement (Schedule 1, para c(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).   The
subloans would be guaranteed by the corresponding State Government, who will
pledge its shares in Federal taxes to cover any eventual defaults in repay-
ment of the subloans (Schedule 4, para.B(ii)(1)of the draft Loan Agreement).
The subloans would finance subprojects selected according to priority
criteria agreed upon with the Bank and described in Annex V (Annex to
Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement). The FIFAPA subloan would cover the
cost of construction and consulting  services,  the corresponding VAT,  and
interest during construction on the subloan. Subloan agreements eligible for
financing under the project should be signed before December 31, 1984
(Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
64.        Each subloan would carry an interest of at least 25 percent p.a.
and a term of up to 15 years after a grace period equal to the construction
period but not greater than 4 years (Schedule 4, para A of the draft Loan
Agreement).   Although the proposed 25 percent interest rate on subloans is
lower than the cost of capital in Mexico, and negative at current rates of
inflation (see para. 66), efficiency in resource allocation would be ensured
by the criteria used by FIFAPA in the selection of subprojects financed under
the proposed loan (see Annex V) and the requirements of the revenue covenant
of the subloan agreement (para.65(a)).   A higher rate would result in an
increased pressure from local authorities to obtain interest free funds from
the Federal Government, a trend being reversed under the present Administra-
tion.



- 18 -
65.          All subloans would be secured by contractual agreements between
FIFAPA/SEDUE, the beneficiaries and the Government of the respective states,
and would include conditions aiming at:
(a) ensuring financial soundness through revenue covenants whereby
each company would generate sufficient revenues to cover
operating costs, working capital needs, minor works and the
larger of the debt service or depreciation on net revalued
assets (Schedule 4,para.B(x) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(b)  implementing   an  adequate  accrual  accounting   system  and
revaluation of fixed assets (Schedule 4,paras.B(vii) and
(viii) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(c) creating specific programs to implement administrative and
operational improvements including the reduction of accounts
receivable to a maximum of 3 months of billing, the prepara-
tion of indicators to monitor subproject execution and to put
into effect the recommendations of the respective feasibility
studies (Schedule 4,paras.B(iii, iv, v and vi) of the draft
Loan Agreement); and
(d) monitoring of their operation by external auditors (Schedule
4, para.B(xi) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
66.           The estimated  total cost of the  project,  including  taxes  and
excluding financial charges during construction, is US$193.3 million equiva-
lent, with a total foreign exchange cost of US$100.3 million (52 percent).
Interest  during  construction  would  be  financed  by  FIFAPA.   The  average
physical contingency assumed for civil works was 10 percent, 15 percent for
water or sewage treatment plants, and 5 percent for supplies and equipment.
Physical contingencies of defined subprojects have been incorporated in their
base costs, and no physical contingencies have been estimated for the 40
percent of the total project cost not allocated to specific works.  The base
costs are expressed  in prices of December, 1982.  Price contingencies were
based on a 6-year construction program for the project, starting in 1984.
Price contingencies for the local component were based on estimates of the
Mexican inflation:   70 percent in 1983, 50 percent in 1984, 30 percent in
1985 and 20 percent from 1986 until project completion (1989). Price contin-
gencies for the foreign component were based on international inflation
forecasts of 8 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, 7 percent in 1985, and 6
percent from 1986 to 1989.  Variations in the exchange rate were assumed to
compensate for the difference between local and international inflation
rates.   Engineering  and  administration  expenses have  been  estimated  at 7
percent of the investment cost. The project is expected to require approxi-
mately 1,429 staff months of consultant services, of which only 31 man-months
are expected  to be foreign.   The average estimated  cost for local consult-
ants, including all overheads, is US$2,400  per staff month.   For foreign
consultants, the estimated cost is US$13,600, including subsistence and
travel.



- 19 -
67.          The commitment by the Government to increase FIFAPA's equity by
US$100 million equivalent to allow the transfer of the proceeds of the loan
to FIFAPA as equity increase, would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 7.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).   The Government will provide
the required counterparts  funds.   The BC's would finance minor works and
replacements out of their internal cash generation.   The Bank loan would
finance the US$100.3 million foreign exchange component of the project,
including the front-end fee.
Procurement and Disbursement
68.        All goods and services would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines. To the extent practicable, civil works, materials and equipment
would be grouped so as to make them attractive for international competitive
bidding (ICB).  Before bids are invited, and as a condition of disbursement
for each individual subproject, SEDUE would present to the Bank for comments
the list of the contracts it intends to award for the subproject, and would
revise the list as suggested by the Bank.   (Schedule 1, para 3c(i) of the
draft  Loan Agreement).    Contracts  for civil works  for  less  than US$2.5
million but over US$250,000, or less than US$500,000 but over US$150,000 for
the purchase of equipment would be procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding, for which the procedure is satisfactory.   Contracts of less than
US$250,000 for civil works and less than US$150,000 for materials subject to
a maximum aggregate of US$8 million (4 percent of total project cost) could
be procured directly on the basis of a minimum of three quotations.  No force
account works are envisaged. Given the advanced degree of development of the
civil works construction industry in Mexico, all civil works contracts are
expected to be won by local contractors.   Goods manufactured  locally and
procured under ICB would be allowed a preference of 15 percent of the CIF
price or the level of import duty, whichever is lower, over foreign goods.
69.          Bank financing of the foreign component (52 percent of project
cost) would be achieved by disbursing 70 percent of all payments to
contractors (net of value added tax) in the first two years of project
implementation, and thereafter reducing the percentage for the remaining
years so as to disburse no more than the foreign exchange component of the
project.   BANOBRAS would also be reimbursed 55 percent of the sum paid to
consultants for engineering designs, construction supervision and technical
assistance. The closing date would be June 30, 1990.
Auditing
70.        BANOBRAS will send to the Bank, not later than June 30 each year,
the audited reports on FIFAPA's accounts and financial statements (Section
4.02  of  the draft  Loan Agreement).    All  BC's  are  audited  by  state  or
municipal authorities  every  two years.   Because  of its  recent  creation,
CEAPAS  has  never  been  audited,  nor  have  the  Regional  Companies.    The
subsidiary loan agreements would require that all BC's and CEAPAS have their
accounts audited every year by qualified auditors, and that such audits be
furnished to the Bank for review no later than five months after the end of
each year (Schedule 4, para. B(xi) and Section 5.01(ii)(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 20 -
Cost Recovery
71.             Tariffs  constitute  the bulk of the operating  revenues of the
beneficiaries.    In  most  cities,  water  and  sewerage  tariff  levels  and
structures  are  inadequate.   Minimum  consumption  allowances are  often  too
large, and there is not sufficient progressivity  to allow  cross-subsidiza-
tion.   The charges include a connection fee that is paid by new consumers,
and a charge (cuota de cooperacion) based on the area of the lot.   CEAPAS
does not have a uniform tariff level for all the state    systems, and each
municipality sets its own tariffs.   CEAPAS aims toward a uniform  tariff in
each Regional Company that would permit cross-subsidization among consumers
of different income levels.  A framework tariff study is being completed by
SEDUE and will establish the basic guidelines and criteria to resolve
deficiencies  in  the  tariff  levels  and  structures.   Within  this  framework
study,   specific  tariff  studies will be prepared  in the BC's and Regional
Companies  (Section  3.07  of  the  draft Guarantee  Agreement).   The  tariff
studies will define tariff structures to be implemented in each city that
will allow compliance with the revenue covenants mentioned in para 65(a) and
will aim at the recovery of the economic cost of providing the services.
72.          Distortion in investment decisions or in financial management of
local institutions would be avoided through compliance with the criteria
for selection: (a) that the least cost alternative is adopted; (b) that
while consumers in the lower income brackets receive the benefit of the
subsidies implied in the onlending rate and water charges for basic volume
consumption are kept at levels affordable to the poor, all consumption
above this basic volume is charged at above the long range average incre-
mental cost of the services.
Economic Justification
73.         The project would provide water supply through house connections
to about 800,000 additional inhabitants and sewerage to about 550,000
additional inhabitants  by  the  end  of the  construction  period.   About 46
percent of the additional population to be served with water supply and 40
percent of the additional population to be served with sewerage are estimated
to belong to the urban poverty target group, defined as people earning less
than  one-third   of  the  annual  national  per  capita  income  (or  about
Mex$11,050.00 or US$442.00 in 1980).   On the basis of the appraised cities
and the additional feasibility studies prepared by SEDUE, it is estimated
that as a result of the project about 1.4 million and 1.2 million additional
inhabitants will be connected to the water supply and sewerage systems
respectively by 1991. Water supply coverage for the urban poor will increase
from 58 percent in 1983 to 88 percent in 1987, while the sewerage coverage
will increase from 35 percent to 65 percent during the same period.
74.          The economic rate of return (ERR) for the appraised subprojects
has been calculated using convenanted tariff levels as proxy for economic
benefits.    Economic  rates  of return  were  estimated  by  city  for project
investments and complementary works in water supply and water supply and
sewerage combined.   They range from 15 percent in Colima to 20 percent in
Culiacan.   The  estimated  aggregate  ERR  for  the  appraised  subprojects  is
about 17 percent.   The rates  of return  indicate  that water and  sewerage



- 21 -
tariffs on average will be close to long-run average incremental costs,
estimated on the basis of the same investment programs.   Benefits such as
improvements in public health, increases in labor productivity, and environ-
mental improvements are either not reflected or only partially reflected in
the tariff paid for these services.   Families earning less than one monthly
minimum salary, most of which have access only to unsafe water purchased from
private vendors, would spend a maximum of 3 percent of their monthly income
(including connection fees, monthly payments) for minimum consumption.
Therefore, services should be affordable to the whole population of the
benefitted cities.
Project Risk
75.       Since the project is the third Bank operation with FIFAPA, the main
risk is associated with the implementation of the new component, i.e., the
pilot program of CEAPAS and the Regional Companies in Sinaloa State.
However, the improvements that have taken place in the organization of SEDUE
and the expertise already acquired in providing assistance to water and
sewerage companies  should diminish the risk to a great extent.             The 25
percent on-lending rate recently approved for the FIFAPA subloans might
discourage some of the beneficiaries of the subprojects to borrow under this
loan.   However, the shortage of grant funds to finance works in the water
supply and sewerage sector will be an incentive for the cities to participate
in the project, and SEDUE has a long waiting list of potential beneficiaries,
thus minimizing this risk.   The project risks are more than compensated by
the benefits accruing to the beneficiaries and to the sector with the intro-
duction of a new organization scheme in the State of Sinaloa which could be
replicated in other states.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and BANOBRAS, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and United Mexican States and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors under separate
cover.
77.        The following will be conditions of loan effectiveness:   (a) the
commitment by the Federal Government to increase FIFAPA's equity in an amount
equivalent to US$100 million (Section 7.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement);
and (b) the publication in the official gazette of the State of Sinaloa of
the by-laws of CEAPAS (Section 7.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
78.        For the CEAPAS component, no disbursement will be made until (a)
the Bank is satisfied that the consultants to carry out the institutional
development program have been employed in accordance with Bank Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement and
Schedule 1, para. 3(b)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement); (b) a scheme of fees
to be paid by the Regional Companies to CEAPAS has been established (Schedule
1, para. 3(b)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement); and (c) each Regional Company
has been incorporated and organized, and their key staff has been apppointed
(Schedule 1, para.3(b)(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 22 -
79.        No disbursements will be made for any subproject until the corre-
sponding subsidiary loan agreement has been duly signed, a legal opinion on
the validity of the agreement has been furnished, and a list of contracts to
be awarded under the respective subproject has been sent and approved by the
Bank (Schedule 1, para. 3(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).  No disbursements
will be made for any water and sewerage treatment plant until the Bank has
been furnished with a satisfactory final engineering study for such plant
(Schedule 1, para. 3(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
80.            Additional  conditions  of  special  interest  are  mentioned  in
Section III of Annex III.
81.           I am satisfied  that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
82.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By E. Stern
Attachment
April 21, 1983



-23-                                             ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                                Page  1  of  5
MEXICO - SOCIAL LNDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1972.5                                    MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      977.2                19bO  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN               EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    470.0        860.0    2090.0                  1902.0                      2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        712.7       1066.5    1534.6                  1259.9                     2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (TIIOUSANDS) 36881.0        51187.0   69752.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 50.8            59.0       66.7                   65.7                       47.9
POPULATIUN PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          115.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            202.6
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. K.M.                         18.7         25.9       24.3                   35.2                       83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRILULTURAL LAND        36.9         52.4       69.3                   92.5                      155.4
POPULATION RGE STRUCTLUE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            45.6         46.5       45.1                   39.7                       31.1
15-.4 YRS.                            51.0         50.0       51.4                   56.1                       61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.4          3.5        3.4                    4.2                        7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 3.2          3.3        3.1                    2.4                        1.6
URBAN                                 4.9          4.8        4.3                    3.8                        3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATL (PER THOUSAh'D)       45.2         42.9       37.0                   31.4                       23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THIOUSAND)       11.7          9.4        7.4                    8.4                        9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3          3.1        2.5                    2.1                         1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..         25.1      842.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ,.       40.0
F'OOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)             97.0        100.0      103.0                   10.0                      116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    117.7         110.5      112.9/c                108.4                      125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             69.1         64.7       65.2/c                 66.0                       92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          28.8         26.7       27.17T                 34.0                       35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        10.3          6.5        3.7                    5.6                        9.2
HEALTh
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    57.7            61.7       65.4                   64.2                       67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              91.1         73.6       56.0                   64.2                       65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                23.5         54.0       62.0/d                 65.6
URBAN                                  ..         71.0       70. 0Td                78.9
'RAIA                                  ..         29.0       49.0/d                 43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..                              59.3
UKBIL                                  ..           ..         .                    7 5 3
RURAL                                  ..         13.0       14.0/d                 30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             1823.4       1506.3    1255.7/e                1617.3                     1105.4
POPULATIui PER NURSING PERSON        3b34.1       1640.2    1423.6Th                1063.5                      634.4
PFPI LATIoN rEh HOSPI TAL BED
TO'AL                               585.7        844.8      866.3/e                477.4                      286.8
URBAN                                  ..       1012.1    1080.0T7                 679.8                      192.0
HJUAL                                  *-       1294.3    1121.1/e                1903.4
ADMISSIONS PFR HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..         ..                   27.3                       20.0
HBO SING
AVERAGL ,ILN OF HOUSFHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.4          5 7         ..                     .
URBAN                                 5.7          5.7
RURAL                                 5.2          5.8
AVFRAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.9          2.5
URBAN                                 2.b          2.2
RLURAL                                3.4          3.2
ACCESS TO ElJ(1TRICIrY (PERCENT
OF DWELILINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..         58.9
UiRBAN                                   .        80.7         ..
RURAL                                  * *        27.8         ..



-24-                                       ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                            Page  2  of  5
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  80.0        104.0     124.0                  104.3                     102.4
MALE                  82.0        107.0      127.0                 106.4                      107.1
FEMALE                77.0        102.0     122.0                  103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         22.0      45.0                   41.3                      60.2
MALE                  14.0         27.0      49.0                   40.4                      66.4
FEMALE                 8.0         17.0      41.0                   41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 23.6            26.7       8.9                   33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             44.0         45.9      40.7                   29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                           13.1         14.5      17.0                   16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         65.4         74.2      81.0                   79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          12.9         24.1      42.0/c                42.8                       51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          89.5       273.6      295.2                 270.5                      157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          17.6         58.5     110.7                  107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   73.7           . .     64.5/f                 63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0            5.0       4.1                    2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    11132.7        14724.8   20187.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         17.4      19.5                  24.4                       36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               55.1         45.2      35.6                   31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.5        22.9       25.8                  23.9                       25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.2         28.8      28.9                   33.6                      44.5
MALE                                  51.1         47.4      46.4                   50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                                 9.2         10.1      11.4                   16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.7        1.7                   1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.1/g        60.7       57.7/c
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.4/g          3.3       2.9/7
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.8/g          9.9       9.9/c
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     471.0                  518.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     471.0                  371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1975;  /e 1974;  /f 1976;  /g 1963.
May, 1982



-25-                                                                      ANNEX I
ORTINXTIXI OF W4  =C=18Page  3  of  5
N...a iklhghocitu hdot a.. .. re   f-e  -os.ia  gonoraly judged the -en  aetho-itti- and rClieble.  It Should .100 he  -et   that they -   oat b. Iae--
_oI-,olly coo-ooelo  bccoa  of the loo  of atndaOdL.no  daf intiat  Be.   -Pont. -Wa  by tiffo....t counui. . intlcotgt. duta,  ma data  r.  o
th. I.... osfu1 to det-iheorer   f antd.ieitia . tract.. aa  ohneel. .ert..   nelor. diff--nce   We-n   cenetele..
Tha refer..., grus  toe, Ci) tha eec -cutry group of the .,ohIoct  -ta"r  act (2) . co Cty group  i0th  ..neebo  higher   -.eage Oao.  thdd tha nuntey grou.P
of th   nbec   outyLeLetfo                       _.ih[no  0L &epoCCen   .r.P060  "KId4le 1neo   nrItk Aft ito an  tiddl. Ao.t' L. oboes hecos  of  C..e.e
auc -Lto      1C-ciue    fotl..ttereeee group dote th.  -vge   r  peguItinto  seightod arith-ctic  -at   Ior .-h io4d-ceeoe. We                       -  b.. oy ab-
aejority of tke --L..o to o goup M.a d.to fr that ioAl.cCo.  Sinc-  the co.-,.P  of coorfea..  the jodilot... d.Peto on the ...ellbiligy of det.
ar  id  o   afrg   ato  Sctb  eacd ia  r.tLca    -.ero.. of on  indicato  to  -Cate.  Thane   -.erege  ara cuy uneful in coartaP  tha veto  of
nei.dOc-t- at o tnea-g the coutr  aOd reernc   grou..P
AREA (thousand ego.)                                                                              PoPOLAieefget itl-t     ttl  ura,strrl-P itioe  (total,
Tat-l - Tota  -urfoc  uroa ccrata            d area ad ielaed 'It"re; 1979 dato.                  ure.ed rerol)  ti,iatb  theU it repoWn neora                 .beIt  be.4
tAli-"tua  - E.tetiNat  of  o               .ioeua  ae  ueed t.W-ortil  or p -r tlney                        L.lahei  pobIlt eat pri.t.t gener-l an  epen.icta   h-apit-I 00re
(o   r P. -Ipetude  Nrbat ad kichen gordn.  or to Iii  feill.; 1979 dote.                 hbiiifticn-  -teee. d-        ioa  r   eel nt  parneeely etffcd
by at Ie..et ... phyefoiaa. &otohiuh-.tt pr... diogPI1 priciiy ...to-
GISP Ott CAFITA (Uog) - GaP poe capita aei            C -t C-eo   arket pricee, c-l-                diL  cee   re  a   i      a . Ior1 heepitlel. th--ve. et1ode h.alth
ca-tedby .e     . tonrI.. nctO  aa  -Lord hank AOiea (197g-80 hbole); 1960.               n   eto   etr   o   oneti   nie   ytpyli   htb
1970. an-90dt.ndica1 dd.iet-n.  -drc. .1i.1fc. et.) Whichofeenpaitcco
dotion cod proitde a   nIted rengaP of ndtol foitee    ro  out2
ENERGY CONSUMPTTON PER CalTA -  --.alcuootlo01crn.lfor   (oL                                        ticul potyoce :i,1dorohupte   cldl1nyicpagnrl h-upt-ia.
Sr    oni.  erlu.ntr    a   o  hydo-, vul  r_4 CthrelanI a                                             rura   beIue., loca Ircra  h. pital  acbddt ecto  act  --arit
_co  11 110Algoeo   o(eaolo   e  cP.                 ia,   9h0  1970.  W0 19(9                    c--er.  Spec.iuiad heaptala or. LIncudd oniy under totol.
-uto                                                                                            Adleuo   c  Sdoepitl gad - Toti,  t_Iorof ud,aio.  to o  died,,o,,e
h.oebopleelo dLro   by  he .co    of bed..
yOPfLMATION A01D VITAL STATISTICS
TotalyooatcoHi4-Ynorctct                     A.l   of c  JuIr 1; 1960. 1970. ao  1990        oe.Zgt~
data.                                                                                        AVereno Sloe of lluehlc  (oeeo  e                           =,I.odl-toa, orat, alcoa-X
Itbc   crluic  (oec of cota') - atl,  ciorf               to-tt   population;                     A  uc.u.dtsaeo  ngopo"'Sodootooae1011qatr
ditforont detniciona of ibo   ur.-   no,  ffat cogP.cebillty of dot.                     and chair -L.e n.L..  A boarder or 'lodige  ay or y not be Lcvcldod in
o1n.ontie   960, i970. oad 190 dot. t.                                                 he hexebold fore.      ia,   a  Poepo.-..
porultion  rctenLou                                                                       Aregeete   fareeo    oe      oal   tg . oa  r-rI  Sa.ag 
L.ullir   InYo    2000 - "l-nee   opltinprojetiLe .. re.  boed an 1960                   boo  f peson  pot fRO     i  el  uho.            ,.Iruu  otoupld cnae
local poplation by ae ead een 004 chair  -rtliny oat fortuity rat..-                         d.lig,   a.telL.eiigneold -I.                       .p.rn        ttut-e  acd
roe. tunp-oa-.r  for n,tnallty  reac ora   of thre   av I.-I.                  -             a     .et.uia  porte.
Log life aep.-coay 01 birth I  -r   sig aith  -otryn per -upitu    onMget.lnrcc Io---ceg of dellinul- ttal. cltha, -co rura  -
loda,Ian  fe'Inl. ife  e      Lpttec   ateiliotag at (7.5 y-ne.  Tb. po.-d                   Cevninld.loaeI    inerct   nlvn   qo Cter  a. perreag
--er  for  ri-LI Icyroc  alec hbe- three  .a..l  esauc   d   Liia  In                        of tot..l. cobee  u-d rorol Wvaltieeretver
ftaIitiy .... ~ding to  m_oS  level ud Pua  famly3 pla.atg parforea..
tCh coutry 1the-  -age  Oo  cf hoe   .et.  -btiotioeo  of nortelilY                     EDUCATION
aed fertility Itreee  ooyrootio   yrPoaa                                                     dutdfrlt    ia..
(to iitry  orloioeloatoloar   ppuetlO   hee t  n  go-h ciec                              PrIar  euho   - total. eet 0.0 fonl.-           reettl.      ala......ea
the tlttt  rota leoqicul t  the Acah rena,  at ulec ta age etuntare  c-         eee*lm*tt of ol uga. atthe pri_ytlevel  n parcanugac cp  eepeytIv
..ir .cnaaa.   ih. Ia ahie-d only ufcer fertility  -.te  dML1  toIitynho-a.ppcltae   oerLyIou                                                   .ncilrnagdAI
the raploeseot level of -ilt net teproductian  rota. oh- eahge ai-i                            Yreoe but odi-C.d for dilfferea  letcche of pri-er  eocti E;to
rerOaattd on do loot. cc che Orclettad ciaraticartecite ~of the pupul.talt                   .Pcoeo    purileer  belo   o  ua_toteOtcL.lahole
lo  he c..r 2000. oAt the rote of dnolin. of fertility  -ca to r-plat-                      Setoncry a.hoai - locai, nola oct fenalo  - Ccfauteo u  abre  ceo,d
coot .anec.                                                            e~~~~~~~~~~~du.Cai..  equir-  at I.e.c four Year  ci  pp-ore   orinCy Lttnc i
100-_ttionary norulatico ic -ectd - Th. year ohS  atatloney popolucta                             P prevdonano.    vocotico..  or toat          tt .rC:ta :otuniaoh  fot Ppuila
04100_ 0111     y                                                  1~ .   ill    roe -1hod.       _noly of 12 to 17 Year  of age;t c.rrep....e              ...ec  .r. ga-rtly
Per ou. to   -cid-yeoI populaion. por aqaar  kiloneter (100 hccr.  of                        toainlnrlae   tee-Ce   of  -.on -ar)-   ouoalitttae
,told ro  1960  1970 aod 199 dat.-                                                           leuloda tcbaheln. induc t1.il  or othbr pragre..  hich ope.. t.Indeped-
tar sq  A.  aeiotuu   ad - Coopt.d ac obo.  for ugtioolt-I Lond                                 ently or ce doparees    of  aeoodry inotitotng.
an1y; 1960. 1970 aed 1979 dote.                                                            pullt-beghe ratio-eoy   n   ecdry  - TPtleeoe   eeldi
Otoalotlo  .u  Str ctur  (t......t) - Children  (f-IAJe.)*atkn-          (15-               priryca  aeaoedor   ee.dcde   yetr    fMeraai 
64 yearn), and retleet (hO y-%rad o.... a>  recetage  of  id-y..r popo-                          _orrn.pontta  I.Lev ..
1ao ; 160, 1970  . an  190 doA dult ILfro rtoloctl-lcae   tteeb tord00noi)
ynrlo   Grenh Rota  ("port.c.  - ot-I - Annua  orth rat.-  of -oo1 aId-                          notpton ao  total Odelt population agd 15 yeoo  ao  c.at.
psrPopulalion (or 1950.60.1960-70, oat 1970-W0.
Occuto  Iothlt  (- 0toi     ran -  aaidot   oa   f ohas popo-                      CIONSUMPTION
lutiane  (o  1950-60.9h0- 70,.4a 1970-63.                                              y           C-o.rit  loor  --oead corulsrcloc       -Poeane  coca c-epeln  -oc
Cr0." Bi~tchco     oo  tho uead  -Aau   live birt h. p.C thoned of nId-,..r                       caeeete    Ieete  eight yateon;  -etldos. ua                 a.    .rao     da
porulotlic;  96.L 97.  -td 1990 da.Z'                                                          dil Car   rhioe. 1:I
ICuca Dteh Oa. L(oar c7houeeed( - Oaobl death. per thuoa4  of .4-year                                                       :Il eate.(e   buwd cIcPulutice       l  om    frtlcr   c   alc
Ocoaco;  90.1(0   ud19  data.;  oro_dc.ee to geoo   ubi   e  thowon  ofroplatu.aeoe
Goose  ;Ioooduutl..   C gt- Atet    to.        f  egtrn        n     ill hbar i                   liniceo.d  rcica10  --uri. and in Year  ohe  r-g1acrotio  of r-di.
he,  -ornu  tePtoduttive p500  if  h.a .opolancee proneit og-aplillc  fer-                      Iea  n  lv sho; 40cC.,-- icr-tc-ococr          euy no           ..opuui a.. e...
ti   - Ooe; ceall oliv-yea   aorgae odieg 10 1960. 1970. an  1990                          net to btia         1oi.hed Ilicnin.s
tauoPlanele-Acecoe  AnalIbocoddd) - A-su.1 oteb.t of ott6eraTV ecicEe  ottoso    ooole  - rt r--i-.r cr- b_e&-ntt
of bitch-c-t-oL dcrice  u           .e.Paro    ofictoa  fouily Ple-ieg  Crgi.geeo    ilt  0   baodPopultio; Motcda    olicanec  TV r-eier
FamIly rienoine - lern (porceet of norld  -nese   - P-retug,. of  -arnd                 In coocia. and in year  Oboe ragintr_ie  of TV aLtn.  in affect.
'Yn  ofcidhaigae(1-!yoe   h   o  bloth-non-to   device. cc                                   uvrae   iiuuiofobuodctLstioo) - Ohs. achevrgecr
al  nriad vof   i I ate. age gru..cPtc  O'at   ecollcoet.orppr.  defined an peidia
produnllco of ull food coonditioa.  (rtdowrine atulcoac naed and  feed oad     TiMt  cold duolug the Y-e. iuoidiccg a4ds.ieao    t  driv-li1 n.a
ino  cleatya  haia   C          dit a   oe   rnr  goode (e.g. negaca..an..il  oit..
lo-cea  of auger)  hbith aC edible  -cd conae  oti.COt  (e.g. ..ff.. ant
cno are not Inded).  oogreg,C;1  Production of o.-h   -cuty 10 Oneod co              LABOR PO"0
oceitSe  Pcrg   prduce  cice aight;  961-65. 1970. and 1900 dnt.-ytilbrfre(baod)-rooial  actio   P--one  L-Icdiog
Per crIca  00000of clorIe  (totent  f reoireectel    Cuepoted  tc.                 cted  occooand  neepiyct bo C.ludio  ).oaftve. ataoet-.etc 
orroogcriitof  ae   odepla         riabaI   onr   e   uic                               oeigppito   cf             I al  a.   Oaf iiiei  oroeca.r                r
Per day.  Available epplian coepino d-ntio  prducrtio, lperte lane.o  c-pecbie; 1960. 1973 and 1990 taco."
oopurt.. 000 nhaoees  n etuct.  flee eupplie cocloda enonol toa.   oca         F.-Ie ferat) - r-I.s 10.cr torts  _erratag  of total labo  forc.
quotiia    Lao  I  foo   Lrtcin.adieei  diett1betc.    oal                                     Aer.icclto ...    oo-so) - l.eB.r forc  I  farnLen. fore....Y, heatnglos
Ide er   -1tine   by PAO beaed onp1by.iLagIt1LI vede for o          lat-f ichieg -e por.t.pag  of cooo  lbor forna; 1960, 1970 060 199  dec..
olty and hatAtonidrig   eirostlCeeeri                 o    body neighte. age4 ..d.r yoeroen-) - Labo  f..t. ie eloleg. .-etroio.eaofcut
a-d ecdi:tioco    f1yploiw,             7dlowin  10 P.,r.a.t for    1 ve Cc                      andonerci.verotao     poeug  of total labor forca;
Socacboldlevet 191-65  197 aI d1977do.                                                      1960. 19(0 cOd 1960 date.d
ta   ott  '"l o           7toai   aom   erdrt-Prtincnictofpr  ait                         ariuPno  gr  (cnet -tta,nl,.0   cel    p P                        nptioo
vet u=py of food P.r day.   ltsppy0 foof            I  dOd TL   a. above.  cc                   tiiyrae   r   opua   0101  n .1..      fenl  labo  tart..a
qL teecefor dlcanre.ttie                     by USDA p r..id. foo  LAoi-p r -tostss   of tota, sal. and feal. pooaieof all .8..orottay
eloeoce   f .60 orS   o  nn     ...ocu  per doy and10grenf anino  a-d                      196. 1973, and 1990 date.  Thrn  art becad on 110D'. p-ri  yto    oe
p  P,u prteio. of =hI" 10 gru    s      bul   he aima  pronc-i'.  Ttr.: etned-              refleoting ago-b.e e-tovot  of the popuetten. and long lie  -ran            I'lA
are  r  love  thou thod. of 75 grate of -tao1 protein and 23 joan of                        feetinete  are ft-  netionl   eut
aoinol pooooio ea ou overoge toe the arId p. pro..ad by FeO La the ThiCd          fcont e.dat    tl   - 1.11  of pepalet"" oedor 15 oft hi aio  oa
Patcoit   rcoeutyfeaiaload rul.   - Protein aupply of foo0 ds-
0100fC_.  idlsan  puaei  gelpr  a.16-65. 1970 -ac  1977 dt.. -                       ~         p~9?e
Chlid (,a,. 1-4) Death gate (Per rbued       ocoldeh  y   huod Oi                               rret..       _rtt  lero   (butt, 10 c 1iahad kind) - Oe-i-vd by rich-c
age group I Y-4  a. tochde   i h i. aoScour, fo ItC develop. lo5on                                 yeC ....t .ic bot         .. p Ctn. pooreat 20   --oee, and poooso 40   --ret
t_ice dot,d. doo-d 1    life cobL..; 1960, 1970 aicd 1990 doea.                                cf hau-ho'de..
im~~~~~~~~~~T_R ~~~~~~~~~~~POVERTY TARGET GROUJPS
'I,1(0 loe  cat at Birch  Zsar) -Z Ateage nuetb 01 of        r  af life  -eictiva              Th   oloo        cI.a ... .r. ey.      oroIaoiaeoe    cer   aee
abrt:1960. 1970 acd 190oco                                                                 e  ohould ha I-tepr...ed  -thI  conadebl. cautio.
of age  er cho.eaod lie 01mb.  1960. 1970 ac  1960 dat.                                 cholcesl ocerty Iuc_   leve  techtbr              ad   elwouh     Lcia
Aceet   oa  AtrCoce   fovlt.o(-tcl  be  n   ao                            Oa-                ctrtlici-  adequate diet rl..e.....oiol roe-food rqu           iot    0  o
-uceoauorly (l"ocda    tra.        _rasntor  atot =td hut ...co-o-aue                       f.tina_d teluelv  povrt  I-o            Fe 10crctia N            rOi cd ruralI
Iaa   uh ac tbet loo  pro-tect   htbols...a.. Sp.og, adeaioaoy  -ol.) oc                       Ocl  .aie   oet  ico     1001I   n-rit                     v'asprcP"t,
tercxcugn.  of the it -sp-ttlv   oopuluioo,             0aheo.yhlnproclIoso  che conty    lrb.ulee 1 0..II  d-rtoo  fo C he  -ac
tcu-iuloorotaedpoec   _- oued   c ot nr   than 200 stere  tIo                                  1-1ue  a   e   aa  vith odlutdot forhca   oc  flvo    0  oaaas
ceiceddarad an belyg vithie reaoonehle once.. o~~~f theC h:co.:v:,- ara          Catiastat Pooc1aclon helo  ObouePvet   cn1..   trer)-c
rooOuouconul  epyta   h  hc ofe  Z0eeaeof th. hoo-hold                                     00d tt-l1    ftetof ocyolo_tioe  (cthoe.I oat.rra) oh  aeanult
do  -c  hur. cc .pend o deocptLoreogt               1b0  t h  day  10 fetching theb
f.anly
rorce-age- 0. dhitrnetlcI            ocoOoe i      ctreta dleposo  nov  Icd
oat 1:Cat-te -    yvtsthoro   yaten  ot the oae of pit penibb and ciii-
Oculti C r fhoy:ian.  - tOpu,l-iO  dItludn  by  -cebo  ot pra-oinOg phyci-                                                     toE-looc  Socia  D-c  0101eoo
de-  quolifiad free a   dictl -nhool at  niner-ity I.-t.                                                                       cE-nd. Anay.i. aco Projeci-n    Oenn
Ottuluio  OC Suetn  OtoO- PpuI di.Ided by ooehor of p-otielag                                                                                     cly 1960
noblcat 0 nea. avduat.ure.    Piteenon.               -oaei-a  orC.n ond



-26-
tagc 4 oP S
M EDXI CO - E CONOM NI C   DE V E LOPMNE NT   D AT A SHCEE T
Ac,tual                                    EstIaanasa/              pee no a                               GnntlnRan-s                       AsVotGOYW
1970   1975 ~~~~9199               1980         1901          1992    -        1993          1904           1905      1970-75  1975-8C  1900-85        1575      190       1932
~tat-oo A, cc.cn                           Contant 1900 Prices, 69$MIIon
000                         98,317.7      135,122.1     172,012.9    186,350.9    202,260.5    206,305.7           206,385.7    212,494.9    725,244.6          6.0       5.3      1.7      102.6      190.6    190.3
Gal In ,I t--a fi frad    -1,771.9          3,690.4       4,911.0            0.0       1,642.2         -959.9       -1,994.9      -2,836.9       -3,597.5       -         -        -          2.9        0.0       2.5
00                         96,545.4    131,431.7    167,101.9    486,339.9    203,902.7    205,345.4              204,315.0    209.65990    221 .647.1         6.2       5.4      0.8      i00.0      100.0    100.0
ionsline I, NFS1        6,983.2       13,302.2      19,984.0      25,784.8       29,841.7      22,486.0       22,000.5       22,072.3      23,199.5       11.0       8.9    -2,1        10.1       I3,       17.0
Rcsouroa Gap         1~~~~0,518.0   13,106.9      22,939.9      23,697.3      27,532.4       29,549.0       32,020.4       33,890.1      35,750.5        3.8      15.6     2.9         Ql 10.     2.7       4.4
Loponts ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~13,53.            -113.3      -2,973.9       -2,087.3      -2,1,3.3        7,122.0        9,939.9       11,117.6      12,5593       29.7        1.1     -          0,1        I1.1       4.4
Consuap nOn          7~~~~2,480.2    101,548.3    122,817.6    136,012.8    143,770.9    150,495.6          149.534,4    146,766.0    138,067.7          8.1       4.8    .2.7        77.3       77.7      72.4
inoastonnon          29~~~1,30 3.9  33,6619.      46,219.34    52,405.4       60,796.9       44,688.'       46,831.4       54,61 1.1     52,617.9       9.4        0.3     0.8        256    91            25.01,
0,-nsa Dot. CasIngs  24,065.6       09,895.4      44, 284.3     50,318.1       80,131.8      54,850.2        54,700.6      82,092.0       71,579,4       6.9      10.4      3.        22.7       27.0      27.7
Gros  Nan. Sa igs           22,731.9       277,850.4     41,086.0       46,077.7      54,040,3      41 .997.5       42,109.9      SI .370.8      60,070.9       8.2      10.       18        010        2.        20.1
Oecn1-oraIGtp~.t                                                                                                                                                                                   85 0 onOc
Pri-nn                        1,1.         13,696.4      17,201.9       15,630.7      16,102.0       18,088.4       16,719.7          ..             ..          17        3.4l    -.        1.          8.I4,      7.8
GePolIdnIn          ~~~~33,131.3    47,026.1      67,876.6      69,512.5       74,026.9      72,385.4        78,792.5         ...            ...         71        70       .         343        37.2      35.,
Once1 ann            ~~~~~54,075.8  74,449.8      94,134.5    101 .367.7    112,051 .4    117,835.9         110,793.7          ..,.          . ..        5.8       4.89               58.0       5.4       57.1
Trad  in Goods -do So-F-t-  Sarl-e                             Cor..ant PrIces  USD Million
acorns, -Tonal J i. l.5    3_,434,5        _0,970.4      16,747,0       25,784.6    33,281.4        21Ll,500.0      72,3500.0     2~5,380.0     27,700.0       23.5      25.4   _-6.0       100,0    _100.0    100.0
Consoas, Goods         ~~~~234.5      493.7       1,012.9        2,918.4       3,119.7          . ,.           .,             .....                     2.3       9.      ...        5,~7       9,4       ;
ntoracoinnn Goocs   ~1,0461,       4,130.9        7,84T.9      11,790.5       15,209,4         ...             ..            ..             ..          5.8       5'.9'   ...       48.0       43,2       51.9
Gao,tal Goods                   766.9       1,919.3       3,037.6        3,340.9       6,498.8          . ...             ,           ,...           ...        4.1       5.4    . ..        22.7       20.7      18.7
5-er,in                         971.9       1,526.6       4,154,6       6,226.9        9,030.5       4,000.0         5,300,0       6,500.0       7,400.0        2.6       .8,     ..         22.8       29.2      23.6
Ecor,Oca  Il,.o       2,750.0       6,068.6      15,050.4       23,697.3        28,668.8   27,400.0        30,6000.0      34,500.0       30,400.0      19.6      25.4      36       100.8      100.0    100.0
Agrieoinoro             08~~~~ze3.5   251.0         786.5          701.9         849.1          .,..           ..             ..                       -2.1       3.2      ...        4.8        2,9       ..
Oenroeoc/tnerais       ~~~196,9       766.2       4,206.3       10,505,3      15,850.7      15,200.0        10,00.0       17,926.0       19,000.7       43        7.7      ...       12.8       44.3      55.5
oanulaotoreo           ~~~~~829,9   1,802,1       3,797,6       4,120.8        4,994.7          ...             ...           ...           ...         2.3       4.8      ...       29.7       17,4        -
Ga, ce                        1 864 .2      5,206.7       8,250.0       4,361 .5       6,974.1       8,500.0         8,900.0       5,000.0        9,100.0       3.2       4.2      . ..      57.9       35.5      23.7
Price  t,bas  11980   7001
Teporn Pnico  nda-               14.3          25.            67.8         10.           104,2          92.8            95.8          191.8         107.4
inporn Price Indes  20.0    54,1           87.2         100~~~~~'O.0  595.2          95,7           101.9         1~11.1         119,4
YeasonTrd                   67,3          92,3          70.9          co0.          10.5           9.              93,8          516            859
220 Con i ator          ~~~~10.7       55.51         727.0        100.0          I 26.0        209.5           570.6         573.2         759.8
oE-l-ng  Rata                    12,49         1.09           0.1           22.5          24.5          54.0             -
Conslinated eubIlo Seetor Finances  G000
Cur-et oaoeipns                  18,77         22.88          06.31         27,716        27.80          23.60
orn  Eupendl Sore             14.88         79.70         73.33          I5.3          30.90l        33.98
04-ret $075                       .1           31             2.96          2.4          -3.10         -6.,10
CapIta   -t-alnnot                6,20         10.69          10.04          9.94         11,80          10.40
DefloIn ICeS)                    -2,10         -7.58         -7.88          -7.51         14.90        -16.50
Sotor Eo,e-,nre c. rret eIlo I           s5                                                                                                                              1908
Energy                    V~~~~~~~~~'    108,383.0  375,266.0   702,630.0    204,784.0 2/                                                                        34.8
Transpor  an   onn  a'en                    5350          8,945.         122:,375.0     02,438.0                                                                           6.
E.la   Opnndrs t-                       5,241.       749,47.         3395,15.0      86~61,78.1.
,4-t,n                            .        311.           0620          12,d922,0      31,485.07.
ogrle. and Ourel Onuaicpaect  .  3,518.0       8610,0         15119.         1,610                                                                               .
Con. coninlse, etc Oata.n t    ,     6441.0        318,824,0       441,9490.0O    237,77.0                                                                           1.
C-aae                               .      5,525.0        73,577,0       413,108,0      33,78.                                                                             5,6
Toora-                                      1,278.0        3,253.0         4,418,0         981.0~                                                                          0.2
Total                    .    ~~~~~~~~~~400,650.0   1 .266,878.0   2,017,934.0    638,599.0                                                                   100,0
Salacted odloator
006                               2.62          3.801          1.94             .6           1.07
laporn E1asticitn        ~~~~2.        0.80           3.28             .8           717
,,aoorcoroe       n MIllions                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~As V of Total    ceAgs A-nua  Spoonh Rate                   Vale d94.  ea    rk-r                        Do  Octal
1970         5580                           1570          1580                          1570-60                             1793            1900                   7570          1560
Agniclt-r                          5.4          0.9                           34.9          28.1                            0.3                               2,057.5        3,194,0                  22.4         29,7                                    A
*,~ dutry                          2.1          4.0                           20.9          23.5                            1 .9                            15,778.8        18828,3                 1 71 .0      156,4
Sorolo-                            3.2          0.5l                          44.2          50,4                            2.                              16,898,7        11,744,9                183.9         129,8
Tonal                             10,7         14.8                          100.0         180,0                            1.5                              9,188.8        10,758.5                129.0         100.0
I/   W  aed 6ank astialt8
2,-cath Rat-a aeclutd   ith the 1aast s9dar  wa-hod,
Not ao llai  spartely, but 1-oi-d  in total,
01970 fI ura  a      - o  ae1wlate in a  -onsst-t serie  wits tIn  tolcaing  ea.-
2/  1981 fI gua  a - oly a-aiaba u6  tIe  tir-   uatr
Aprlt 1, 1583



-27--
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
a A L A N C E    O F    P A Y W1 E N T S    E X T E R N A L    A S S I S T A N C E    A N D    D E B T
U S   S   M i I I I o n,    C u r re n t    P r i c e s)
PreI  in.
A C T U A L                                   Estimates              P r o j e c t io n a/
Summary Balance of Payments                  19_0          1975          1979          1980          1981             1982            1983          1984         1985
Exports (including NFS)                   2,754.0       6,068.6       15,050.4      23,697.3      28,668.6         27,400.0        30,600.0    34,500.0    38,400.0
Imports (includIng NFS)                   3,434.5       8,470.4      16,747.0      25,784.6       33,261.4        21,500.0         22,500.0    25,300.0    27,700.0
Resource Balance                           -680.5      -2,401.8       -1,696.6      -2,087.3      -4,592.8          5,900.0         8,100.0      9,200.0    10,700.0
Net Factor Income                          -332.8         -844.4     -3,012.7       -4,485.0      -7,093.9        -12,600.0       -12,600.0   -13,100.0   -13,800.0
Net Transfers                                 55.4         140.0         223.8         244.6         304.1            300.0           300.0        300.0        300.0
Current Account Balance                    -957.9      -3,106.2       -4,485.5      -6,327.7    -11,382.6          -6,400.0        -4,200.0    -3,600.0    -2,800.0
Direct Investment                           332.8          748.8         971.9       1,313.0       1,142.1            ...             ...
Public iMed. & Long Term Loans, net         258.6        3,565.8       3,129.1       6,013.3      10,867.1          5,000.0         5,000.0      4,C00.0      3,000.0
(Disbursements)                        821.3       4,418.6      10,415.0      10,061.2       16,578.4        12,200.0            ...          ...          ...
(Repayments)                          -562.7        -852.8      -7,285.9      -4,047.9      -5,711.3         -7,200.0
Net i W                                        -             -            70.0          73.5          69.6            220.0         1,300.0      1,300.0      1,300.0
Other Capital                               488.6      -1,043.3          733.4          78.1         489.3        -4,320.0           -100.0        300.0        500.0
Change In Reserves  I- = Increase)         -102.1        -165.1         -418.9       1,150.2      -1,185.5          5,500.0        -2,000.0    -2,000.0    -2,000.0
Grant and Loan Commitments
Public Med. 4 Long Term Loans
IBRD                                      53.7         116.2         220.4         255.0          283.2           341.9*
IDA                                        -             -             -              -             -               -                -
Other Multilateral                        17.5          49.2          112.9         123.3         136.6           156.5*
Governments                               79.9          90.3          386.1         223.4         288.1           467.5
Suppliers                                122.5         200.1         171.2          153.4         146.2           168.7*
Banks and Financial Institutions         370.4       1,050.5       8,586.7        6,778.4       7,258.7        10,255.2*
Debt and Debt Service                                                                                                                           External Debt
Public Debt Outstanding and               3,423.5       10,512.4     30,970.0       36,398.3      38,921.8        47,592.9-               Outstanding & Disbursed
Disbursed lend of period)                                                                                                                  on Dec. 31, 1981
Interest on Public Debt                     216.4         831.8       2,854.6       3,841.9        4,699.8         5,853.9*
Repayment on Public Debt                    475.6          761.1       7,111.7       4,026.4       3,782.1         6,618.9*         Public M & LT   SMillions          S
Public Debt Service                         692.0        1,592.9       9,966.4       7,868.3       8,481.9        12,472.8*             Loans
Burden on Export Earnings (11)                                                                                                      IBiD                2,416.9       5.7
a.  Public Debt Service                 25.1          26.3          66.2          33.2           29.6            47.2*        Other Off.          5.353.3      12.5
b.  Public Debt Service and             35.2          37.9          84.8          51.1           53.3            89.5*          Sources
Direct Investment Income                                                                                                Other Private    34,944.1       81.8
Sources
Average Terms of Public Debt
a.  Interest as S of prior year's        7.4          10.4          11.1          13.4           14.0            13.7*        Total              42,714.3    100.0
D.O. and D.
b.  Amortizatton as S of prior          16.3           9.2          27.8           13.8          11.3            15.5*
year's D.O. and D.
IBRD Exposure
a.  IErR  D.O. and D. as S of           19.1          15.0           8.3           8.3            9.1            10.0
Pubilc D.O. and D.
b.  1880 Debt Service as S of            7.8           7.3           2.2            3.2           3.3             2.7*
Public Debt Service
*   Debt and Debt Service figures for 1982 are estimated on the basis of January-September data.
a/  Estimates are from  IW,
Not available separately, but included in the total.
Apri I , 1983



Annex II
-28-                                Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1983)
Loan                                                               Amount less    Undis-
No.       Year      Borrower                 Purpose              Cancellations   bursed
50 loans fully disbursed                    2,724.6
1053-5    1974      NAFINSA                  Integrated Rural
Development              29.0          3.6
1111-5    1975      NAFINSA                  Irrigation                50.0         12.7
1186      1975      BANOBRAS                 Water Supply              40.0         10.4
1462-5    1977      NAFINSA                  Integrated Rural
Development           120.0           1.8
1553-5    1978      NAFINSA                  Agriculture               56.0         27.2
1554      1978      BANOBRAS                 Urban Development         16.5          0.1
1643-5    1979      NAFINSA                  Small-scale Agri.         60.0         38.0
1671      1979      BANOBRAS                 Highways                 120.0         51.4
1686-5    1979      FERTIMEX and NAFINSA   Industry                    80.0         10.6
1706-5    1979      NAFINSA                  Irrigation                92.0         74.8
1712-5    1980      NAFINSA                  Industry                 175.0         73.8
1820-5    1980      NAFINSA                  Small and Medium
Scale Mining           40.0          35.1
1858-5    1980      NAFINSA                  Irrigation               160.0        155.5
1881      1981      NAFINSA                  Small and Medium
Scale Industry        100.0          30.7
1891-5    1981      NAFINSA                  Agricultural Credit    325.0          186.0
1908      1981      NAFINSA                  Irrigation                23.0         16.3
1913      1981      BANOBRAS                 Water Supply             125.0        105.1
1929      1981      BANOBRAS                 Railways                 150.0         94.0
1945      1981      NAFINSA                  Rainfed Agri.            280.0        226.9
1964      1981      BANPESCA                 Port Development          14.0         13.4
1990      1981      BANOBRAS                 Urban Development II   164.0          161.1
2042      1982      NAFINSA                  Technical Training        90.0         56.5
2043      1982      NAFINSA                  Integrated Rural
Development           175.0         166.4
Irrigation. Rehab II   180.0          177.3
2100      1982      NAFINSA                  Capital Goods
2142      1982      NAFINSA                    Industry               152.3
2154      1982      NAFINSA                  Pollution Control         60.0         59.1
2191      1983      NAFINSA                  San Fernando Agri.       138.4        136.4
2194      1983      BANOBRAS                 Urban Enginering           9.2          8.5
TOTAL                                             5,749.0 2/
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                953.2
Total now outstanding                             4,795.8
Amount sold                   92.3
of which has been repaid    92.3                      0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/
Total undisbursed                                 4,795.8      2,085.0
1/ Loan 2262, for $115 million, made in FY83 to NAFINSA for an Agricultural
Marketing Project was approved by the Executive Directors on April 19, 1983, but
has not yet been signed.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                                          US$ Million
Year            Obligor                       Type of Business            Loan  Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. /1                 Industrial Equipment            0.8    --       0.8
1958      Bristol de Mexico, S.A. /1    A.C. Engine Overhaul                0.5             0.5
1961      Acero Solar, S.A. /1              Twist Drills                     0.3    --       0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora Fierro
66/68     y Acero de Monterrey, S.A.  Steel                               2.3   21.4   23.7
1963      Tubos de Acero de Mexico,
S.A. /1                         Steel                           0.9     0.1     1.0
1963      Quimica del Rey, S.A. /1          Sodium Sulphate                 0.7    --        0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A. /1 Construction Equipment               --       2.0     2.0
1970      Minera del Norte, S.A. /I         Iron Ore Mining                 1.5    --        1.5
1971      Celanese Mexicana, S.A.           Textiles                       12.0    --      12.0
1972      Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V. /1  Pulp and Paper                       /2      /2      /2
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.             Cement                         15.9    --      15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel               Tourism                          1.0    0.3      1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                      Steel                          12.0    3.2   15.2
1978/81  Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.            Pulp and Paper                  9.0      3.5   12.5
1978      Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals                     19.0    -       19.0
1979      Cementos Tolteca, S.A. /3         Cement                        100.0           100.0
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real Ixtapa,S.A. Tourism                              --      3.1      3.1
1979      Conductores Monterrey, S.A./3 Electrical Wire and Cable  18.0    --              18.0
1980      Industrias Resistol, S.A. /3  Particleboard                      25.0    --      25.0
1980      Vidrio Plano de Mexico
S.A. /3                         Flat Glass                    114.9     -    114.9
1980      Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. /3                 Mining                        110.0    -    110.0
1981      Celulosicos Centauro, S.A./3  Pulp and Paper                     59.5    --      59.5
1981      Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.                            Agri-Business                  11.3     3.0   14.3
Total Gross Commitments                                         514.6   36.6  551.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
389.5   22.1  411.6
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                               125.1   14.5  139.6
Total Undisbursed (including participants)                       34.1     1.5   35.6
/1    Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
/2    US$25,000.
/3    Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (March 31, 1983) 1/
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  US$50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Subsequently reduced to US$29
Million; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1975. Closing Date:
December 30, 1982.
The undisbursed amount will be cancelled as soon as
applications in transit are processed.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio San
Juan: US$150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; Subsequently reduced
to US$50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
Following initial delays in implementation, the project was
redesigned in 1977. In August 1978, the Executive Directors
approved the modified program which is now close to comple-
tion. Disbursements, although lagging behind, are now proceed-
ing at an improved pace and the loan is expected to be com-
pletely disbursed by the extended closing date.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40
Million Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April
26, 1976. Closing Date: January 14, 1984.
Five out of the seven subprojects have been completed, but
project completion has been delayed in 1982 as a result of the
budgetary constraints of Mexico this year. To accelerate
disbursements, some of the civil works to be financed under
this loan will be financed under loan 1913-ME , while some of
the equipment and material related to subprojects under loans
1913-ME will be disbursed under this loan. The disbursement
percentage has been increased to 70% as announced in the R83-48
Report to the Executive Directors.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  US$120
Million Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date:  October 28,
1977; Closing Date:  January 31, 1983.
The undisbursed balance will be cancelled as soon as
applications in transit are processed.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The six pilot projects have been approved by the Bank. Project
authorities are making good progress in the agricultural
development program of each pilot project. The applied
research programs are proceeding on schedule. The project area
under the credit component of the project has recently been
expanded. Disbursements are improving.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The loan funds have been almost fully disbursed.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Most livestock and irrigation subprojects for financing under
the Project have been approved by the Bank, and the Government
is accelerating preparation of withdrawal applications.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are on target, but preparation of withdrawal
requests is still delayed; the loan will likely be fully
disbursed by the end of FY 1983.
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: April 30, 1983.
The loan is now fully committed to finance contracts with
foreign suppliers of equipment, but disbursements are not
expected to be completed before the end of the year. Based on
the findings of a recent supervision mission, however, it was
agreed to extend the closing date temporarily through April 30,
1983 only to enable the Borrower and the project implementing
agency to provide additional information to the Bank and
improve project execution arrangements.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979; Closing
Date: July 31, 1986.
Project implementation would, in the normal course, experience
delays of one to two years due to budgetary constraints.
Special action program is under examination.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: October 5, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial project financing has softened as some
sub-projects of this previously fully committed loan have been
cancelled. Close monitoring indicates, however, that net new
commitments have outpaced cancellations in recent months, and
the full loan amount is expected to be committed again by mid-
1983.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of August 18, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution has been initiated, and agreement on revised
interest rates is expected. Demand for credit has been less
than originally anticipated due to softening of mineral prices.
Ln. No. 1858   Apatzingan Irrigation Project:  US$160 Million Loan of
September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
After some initial delays detailed plans for the Chilatan Dam
were completed in February 1983. Technical assistance and
agricultural development activities will require
strengthening. The Project is facing problems due to
counterpart funding constraints. The Government and the Bank
are studying special actions to help project implementation.
Ln. No. 1881   Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project:
US$100 Million Loan of September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 22, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
About two thirds of the loan have been committed and over one
half of it has been disbursed. The program is making
satisfactory progress, and the loan is expected to be disbursed
before the closing date.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million Loan of
August 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date:  November 17, 1980
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
No major problems in implementation are foreseen. Sublending
rates to be revised shortly by the Mexican authorities.
Ln. No. 1908   Ocoroni Irrigation Project:  US$23 Million Loan of March 2,
1981; Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Project implementation is ahead of schedule with a fair chance
of its completion two years before schedule. Disbursement is
also catching up with the fast progress; however, some cost
overruns can be expected.
Ln. No. 1913   Second Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:
US$125 Million Loan of January 23, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
June 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
To accelerate disbursements, some of the civil works to be
financed under this loan will be financed under Loan 1186-ME,
while some of the equipment and material related to subprojects
under Loan 1186-ME will be disbursed under this loan. The
disbursement percentage has been increased to 70 percent, as
announced in the R83-48 Report to the Executive Directors.
Ln. No. 1929   Fourth Railway Project:  US$150 Million Loan of February 12,
1981; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The proceeds of the loan have been reallocated to speed up
project implementation.
Ln. No. 1945   Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:  US$280 Million Loan
of March 2, 1981; Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
Civil works are proceeding on schedule with exception of the
drainage component and a portion of the local development
centers. District operational committees are now functioning
to review credit programs in the eleven PLANAT districts.
Disbursements are behind appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1964   Ports Development Preparation Project:  US$14.0 Million Loan of
May 7, 1981; Effectiveness Date: August 24, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Progress of port project preparation work is somewhat delayed
by budgetary limitations imposed on all transport work, but the



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
new Administration has now indicated its desire to procede with
two specific items, which will be the subject of study by
consultants now in the field. Improvements at the existing
industrial port of Lazaro Cardenas, and terminal facilities at
the new port of Altamira are under study.
Ln. No. 1990   Second Urban and Regional Development Project:  US$164 Million
Loan of August 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Project implementation delayed due to managerial problems and
to the lack of counterpart funds in 1982. The situation is now
improving and disbursements are expected to accelerate in the
near future.
Ln. No. 2042   Technical Training Project:  US$90 Million Loan of July 31,
1981; Effectiveness Date: November 25, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Project implementation on schedule.
Ln. No. 2043   Integrated Rural Development (PIDER III):  US$175 Million Loan
of November 6, 1981; Effectiveness Date:  May 5, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1985.
Micro-regional offices have been established and staffed. The
Government has prepared the monitoring and evaluation plans for
all micro-regions under the project and these are satisfactory
to the Bank. Preparation of the training programs is now
substantially completed.
Ln. No. 2100   Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio San Juan Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project II: US$180 Million Loan of September 5, 1982;
Effectiveness Date: March 4, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988.
Project implementation underway. Special action to provide
relief on counterpart funds under consideration.
Ln. No. 2142   Capital Goods Industries Development Project:  US$152.3 Million
Loan of September 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date: March 7, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The creation of a $100 million export development fund under
the project was approved by the Executive Directors on April 1,
1983. Loan financing for the original project component has
been temporarily reduced to $50 million.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 2154   Pollution Control Project:  US$60 Million Loan of July 16,
1982; Effectiveness Date:  February 11, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
Project executing agencies are now preparing the first
implementation phase.
Ln. No. 2191   San Fernando Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:
US$138.4 Million Loan of September 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date:
March 4, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1989.
Project implementation underway.
Ln. No. 2194   Deconcentration Program for the Mexico City Region:  US$9.2
Million Loan of August 9, 1982; Effectiveness Date:
October 15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Several studies have been contracted and the project is
progressing satisfactorily.
Loan approved after March 31, 1983:
Ln. No. 2262   Agricultural Marketing Project for Perishables:  US$115 Million
Loan of                ; Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
This loan, approved by the Executive Directors on April 19,
1983, has not yet been signed.



-36-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES AND SINALOA STATE WATER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time to prepare project:                  One and a half years
(b)  Project prepared by:                      SAHOP/SEDUE
(c)  First presentation to Bank:               January 1981
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:           March 1982
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:               April 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:            September 1983
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Data
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The publication of the by-laws of CEAPAS in the official gazette of
the State of Sinaloa and the commitment by the Government to
increase FIFAPA's equity by US$100 million equivalent would
be conditions of loan effectiveness (paras. 56 and 67).
(b) The following would be conditions of disbursement for each
subproject: i) Approval by the Bank of a list of all contracts
that SEDUE intends to award for each subproject (para. 68); ii)
signature of subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the Bank
for each subproject between FIFAPA and the sub-borrower, each such
agreement to be guaranteed by the corresponding state government
(para. 63); iii) furnishing the Bank with a legal opinion by a
counsel acceptable to the Borrower that the provisions of the
respective sub-loan agreement are valid and binding upon the
respective sub-borrower (para. 63); iv) for any water and sewerage
treatment plants, furnishing the Bank with a satisfactory final
engineering study for the plant (para. 62).
(c) The following would be additional conditions of disbursements for
the CEAPAS component: i) The consultants to carry out the
institutional assistance program for CEAPAS and the Regional



-37-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Companies shall have been hired (para. 59); ii) a scheme of fees to
be charged to all regional companies, acceptable to the Bank, shall
have been established (para. 60); and iii) each Regional Company
shall have been incorporated, adequately organized and its key
staff appointed. (para. 57)
(d) Subprojects to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan will be
selected according to the priority criteria agreed upon with the
Bank and will be signed not later than December 31, 1984 (para.
63).
(e)  SEDUE will carry out specific tariff studies in each of the BC's
and Regional Companies, including a schedule for implementing their
recommendations. (para. 71).



-38-
ANNEX IV
MEXICO
7HIRD IMEDIUM1 SIZE CITIES AND SINALDA STATE lATER PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUhMARY
(tex S Million)                                 (USS Million)
I ot                                       I ot
Foreign  I ot Total                        Foreisn  Z of Total
Local   Foreign   Total   Exchsnse Base Costs Local Foreisn Total  Excha;ne Base Costs
A. STATE lATER CCI?AiY
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPKEKT PROGRAM                55.7      56.6    112.3       50.4        0.6   0.5       0.5    1.1     50.4         0.6
SUFPLY                                           56.9    259.8    315.7        22.0         1.7   0.5      2.4    3.0      82.0        1.7
NEALTH ED'iCATION FrOSRAM                          4.7      6.4      11.1      57.8         0.1   0.0      0.1    0.1      57.8        0.1
CULIACAN                                      1,525.3  1,461.2  21986.5        48.9        15.9  14.4    13.3  23.2        48.9       15.9
LOS Y.DCHIS                                     43S.3    416.9    855.0        48.7         4.6   4.1      3.9    8.1      48.7        4.6
TOPOLOB-APO                                     150.2    145.6    295.8        49.2         1.6   1.4      1.4    2.8      49.2        1.6
MAZATLA9                                      1,095.7  1i043.3  2,139.0        48.8       11.4  10.3       9.9   20.2      48.8       11.4
L === ~~~~~~~~~~-                               -_- -   - -- -- _-   - --_---_----------_
Sub-Total STATE RATER COMPANY                     3326.8  3,328.7  6,715.5        50.5        35.8  31.4    32.0   63.4       50.5       35.8
B. hErPI0   - SIZE CITIES
CELAYA - GU.'NAJUATO                            483.0    400.2    893.2        45.3        4.7   4.6      3.8    8.3       45.3        4.7
COLIMA- COLIMA                                  521.7    512,1  1,033.9        49.5        5.5   4.9       4.8    9.8      49.5        5.5
CD. GUDl.l  - JALISCO                           557.9    556.6  1114.6        49.9        5.9   5.3      5.3   10.5      49.9         5.9
TAPACPkULA-  HInAPAS                            491.7    476.2    967.9       4?.2         5.2   4.6      4.5    9.1      49.2         5.2
OTHER SUEFROJECTS                             3,764.4  3.943.5  7,712.9       51.2        41.1  35.5    37.3   72.8       51.2        41.1
Sub-Total MEDIUM - SIZE CITIES                   5i812.8  5,893.7 11,712.5        50.3        62.5  54.9    55.6  110.5       50.3       62.5
C. INSTITUTI0.AL SUILD'.NS PROGRAM
TRAINING PROGRM                                 227.5      95.7    323.2      29.6         1.7   2.1    0O9    3.0        29.6         1.7
EQUIPIMENT                                        0.2       0.7       0.9     80.3         0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0      80.3         0.0
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONA  BUILDING PROGM              227.6     96.4    324.1       29.8         1.7   2.1      0.9    3.1      29.8        1.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                                9.773.3  9,37S.8 13Y752.0       50.0       100.0  88.4    8.5  176.9       S0.0      100.0
Price Contingencies                             2,013.6  9,264.5 17,278.1        53.6       92.1   4.5    11.5   16.0       72.0         9.0
- --   - _-- --- -------- _------- ---------- --            --    --__ _ ---
Total PROJECT COSTS                                17,386.9 l8S,43.3 36,030.2       51.7       192.1  92.9  lCO.0  192.9        51.8      10G.0
t=D._-=D ===-==:=---2=: ================ ==_D ======-==_=  =_==x======



-39-
ANNEX V
PRIORITY AND SELECTION CRITERIA FOR SUBPROJECTS
Subprojects in all beneficiary cities will be selected by
FIFAPA/SEDUE in accordance with the priorities set forth in the PNDU. In
addition, the following criteria will be used for subproject selection:
(a)  a feasibility study would be prepared for each proposed subproject
in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank and would
correspond to the least-cost solution;
(b) the beneficiary city would have created an autonomous water supply
and sewerage company (except for the cities in the State of
Sinaloa) which would be in charge of operation and maintenance of
water and sewerage services. The company would have to enter with
FIFAPA/SAHOP into onlending agreements that sets goals on financial
viability, as set forth in FIFAPA's onlending conditions;
(c) for subprojects to be carried out in cities with present
populations greater than 50,000 inhabitants, the internal rate of
return (IRR) should be at least equal to 11 percent;
(d) for subprojects to be carried out in cities with present
populations between 10,000 and 50,000 inhabitants, the IRR should
be set at least equal to 6 percent;
(e) if the IRR of subprojects under (c) and (d) above are lower than
required, a subproject would be eligible if the tariffs for both
water supply and sewerage for consumption above the minimum levels
(15 m3/conn./month) are at least equal to the respective long-run
average incremental costs;
(f) subprojects to be carried out in cities with populations of less
than 10,000 inhabitants should have a per capita construction cost
for its water and sanitation systems of less than the equivalent of
US$200 for each system; and
(g) subprojects not meeting the criteria set forth in the preceeding
paragraphs should be redesigned and their standards lowered to
acceptable levels.  If the subproject does not fulfill the criteria
after it has been redesigned, it would be eligible for Bank
financing only if statistical evidence indicates the existence of
unusually high mortality or morbidity rates as a consequence of the
lack of adequate water and sanitation conditions.



I



IBRD 16392
- N.                                     M~~~~~~~~~~~~~AY 1982
1 0 9           \.-.*'*~*-'t Z _ . . I 08                                                           U N I T E D STATE S O F AME R I C A
La Reforma
S O  N  O  R A               X>        f         \<o. -.^. 
SON RA                /    /               \' '- 
Cno/ia >oAT \            C  H  I H  U  A  H  U A                              STATEACF
El Fuerte                                                                                                 AMEX  CC
f~~~~~~~~~~~ /                                                                                   /                                                               a\q ,<t_  izc ,,<
26'                               I        D                                                                                                        =
W// Jr             Sinaloa                               ..\
LOS MACC-           _                       de Leyvc                O 'a'                                7                                       andes l    ,
7          \            \           g  -       <           Santiago             _ 'a'
TOPOLOBAMEC                    Guasove                         Mocac 0                          1
Angostura                            Bodi-aguato   /
\   W   -J    \                             ~~D U R A N G O
- a C JlAUCARNAN O
DoradD                           Gpto Reye ,  J s 
-~~ ~ Nova ot    ~"
-'~~~~~~~~~~~'
240               MEXICO                                                    \     /\/                                  t             .      24o-~~~0  N
STATE OF SINALOA                                                        <<   X                 t ffi    \.                     t.
c- ^ /u  Appraised Cities                                                              Vmas|g,
DMoiry Roads                                     \,
Secondary Roads                                              ja\, 
Railroads                                                       |\Xg 
- -State Water Company Regional Boundartes                        :\/
s                           ~~~~~~~~~~Rivers                                              N                                              C oncordia
---State Boundories                                                                 MA  ATILAN < . 
230          ---  ~~~~International Boundaries- \                                                                                    Roai 
,~~'.,
-2s'                                                                                                                             RosarioC74  '06>   J < 7s reo.
MEDIUM   SIZE  CITIES IJI PR~~~KIOJECTES                    2   L0C-) el(                                          I  -
Appraised Cities                                 Dmos                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Hcllg.
-   Main Roads~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Secondary RoadsI                                                                                                                     7~7~p



I                 I                                                                                                                                                                                     I 



rC) n:unods  g~~~~~ ~.                             \, I~JNITED    STATE'~  (F    AMERICAMEXC|
I' i,^->,,, fi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEDIUM  SIZE CITIES
5 \   OUAIIF  WH   S   F   r  ClUa;fi7aLA<S                                                                                           ~~~~~~~STATE  WATER  COMPANY
@j</S ,R I   /\    : tQdtdof+tSf F/'';xuJFnbrJ   d  sdt0fg  -\                                                              ~~~~~~~WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT II
'; JN n   ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~\>  C   f   \   ;%                                                                                       LOCAT ON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  APPRAISED SUBPRO JFCTS
-;   i ]  u r    tRHermoSlllo  .   \    xJ           d A.unX                                            /,S                   ' '   Sfste P 1Ch Pr ject~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P10 ~j-
s   t   V   .         f                                         1\ f                             . . .>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RbGh2 i Medium SizeE.oppr: vec ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d. S-I  fies~5.
,  Go:ymoix -?\   e   2       - RE     \\,                       Nue>aRo:lS                   r                                          t~~~~~~21  S,t.t CFt0I9
'     +   ;08  ol       =(5LddOlgn        Xrr0                           >CNeoLrh6o Pi      iso on
C   41  ;C+   Ph s   -   89s   h  nn     ~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~   X   :  .   /  _,   _ ~    ~        ~       ~       ~        '. P~
S    +   'lil   Q   t   \   P arrol?   7o  v   >itil C a v b g  >  i X                                                   _     Rydroods~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sl f.  - d. ,.
rdC; X -^ 1 1oX ; t69>< ';~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e 'nrr SArzM
:+    |   Mpzodp                                                  . j s B . X ~~~~~~~~h-                                         C--h
.   . . iTepl:   r         %,,   .      -     .      \   j                                                         Frooreso   -          Fi.oI-  bELIZ
"O ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ,"r 2X                                                                 --d Iso   GGA EdoM r4 , g + V     oCi                             LA            u- W  



