=OFFICIAL
OCUIENTS     LOAN NUMBER 2281-ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Third Medium-Size Cities and Sinaloa
State Water Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                      c25  , 1983


﻿Loan Number 2281-HE
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      QS      , 1983, between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Pu'blicos, S.A.
(hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred million three hundred thousand dollars ($100,300,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the
obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan and undertake
to carry out, through its Secretarla de Desarrollo Urbano y
Ecologia (hereinafter called SEDUE), and unless as provided under
paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the investment
projects included under the Project as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General  Conditions   Applicable  to  Loan  and  Guarantee
Agreements being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in Section 1.02 of and in the Preamble to,
the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the
punctual  performance  of  all -the  other  obligations  of  the
Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Fund will be inadequate
to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out
of the Project, promptly to provide the Fund or cause the Fund to
be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor, acting through SEDUE, shall
carry out the Project and each of the Eligible Sub-projects with
due diligence -and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative,   financial,  engineering  and   public  utility
practices.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, the Guarantor may assign the obligation to carry out an
Eligible Sub-project to such Beneficiaries which have been
selected by the Guarantor in accordance with technical and
administrative criteria satisfactory to the Bank. In such cases
the obligation of such Beneficiaries shall be duly reflected in
their respective Sub-loan Agreement and the Guarantor shall
remain   responsible  for  the   supervision  of   the   Eligible
Sub-projects and the provision of technical assistance to the
said Beneficiaries.
(c) The Guarantor shall, acting through SEDUE, provide
technical assistance to the Beneficiaries as required by the
latter in accordance with the terms of the Sub-projects.


﻿-3-
(d) The Guarantor shall, acting through SEDUE, enter into a
Sub-loan Agreement with the Borrower and the respective Sub-
borrower in respect of each of the Sub-projects in accordance
with the provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.    Except as the Bank     shall otherwise agree, the
Guarantor shall not amend or waive or abrogate or fail to enforce
any provision of the Sub-loan Agreements.
(e) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and civil works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
(f) For purposes of carrying out Part A.2 of the Project,
the Guarantor shall:   (i) by June 30, 1985, furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the conclusions of the diagnosis on the
institutional and management requirements of the Comisi6n; (ii)
by December 31, 1987, furnish to the Bank the program referred to
in Part A.2 of the Project in terms satisfactory to the Bank;
and (iii) thereafter, cause the Comisio'n to put into effect such
program.
(g) For purposes of Part C.3 of the Project, the Guarantor
shall carry out the studies described therein in accordance with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Guarantor in the
carrying out of the Project and in the preparation and the
carrying out of the Eligible Sub-projects, the Guarantor shall
employ engineering and management consultants whose selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be
selected   in   accordance   with   principles    and   procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Guarantor undertakes to insure or
cause to be insured, or make or cause to be made adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the Guarantor to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿-4-
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Guarantor: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project and the Sub-projects (including their
costs and the benefits to be derived from them), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose their use in the Project and in the Sub-projects;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives, or
cause Them to be enabled, to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and in the Sub-projects and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project and the Sub-
projects, their costs and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from them, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of the proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Guarantor of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1984, furnish to the Bank for each of the Regional
Companies, the monitoring indicators listed in sub-paragraph B
(ii) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement applicable to each such
Companies, ir terms satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall carry out, in the cities
benefitting from a Sub-project which have a percentage of
unaccounted-for water higher than 30% of the water supplied by


﻿- 5 -
the respective Beneficiary, a leak detection and control program
during the period of Sub-project execution.
Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall, not later than six months
after the signing of the Sub-loan Agreement for each Beneficiary,
carry out a specific tariff study for such Beneficiary, in terms
satisfactory to the Bank, such study to present as conclusion the
tariff structure and tariff levels to be implemented by each such
Beneficiary.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
governmental assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other governmental assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.


﻿-6-
(c) As   used  in  this  Section, the   term   "governmental
assets" means   assets  of   the  Guarantor,  of  any   political
subdivision or of any agency; and the term "agency" means any
agency or iistrumentality of the Guarantor or of any political
subdivision of the Guarantor and shall include any institution or
organization which is owned or controlled directly and indirectly
by the Guarantor or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor
or the operations of which are conducted primarily in the
interest of or for account of the Guarantor or any political
subdivision of the Guarantor.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor shall:
(a) maintain in SEDUE a special unit in charge of carrying
out feasibility studies and appraisals of the Sub-projects, to
supervise the carrying out of said Sub-projects and to monitor
their operation; and
(b) at all times, assign suitably qualified staff in
adequate numbers to such unit, including sanitary engineers,
financial analysts, economists, and other supporting staff.
Section 4.03. The Guarantor, acting through SEDUE, shall:
(a) maintain   within   its   national   training  program,
particular sub-programs in accordance with each Beneficiary's
specific needs, as identified in the respective Sub-project
feasibility studies; and
(b) by June 30, 1985 carry out the revision of SEDUE's
guidelines for project preparation in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Director General of Public Credit of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section  .02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-7-
For the Guarantor:
Secretaria de Hacienda y
Credito Publico
Palacio Nacional
Mexico 1, D.F. Mexico
Telex:
01774300
Mexico City
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex:
440098 (ITT)
248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Guarantor shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The G-arantor shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿-9-
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Mexico may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering      goods manufactured   in
Mexico if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Mexico equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar -taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 10 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts estimated to cost., after grouping in accordance
with appropriate procurement standards, an amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $2,500,000, in the case of works, and not
exceeding the equivalent of $500,000, in the case of equipment
and materials, may be procured in accordance with local competi-
tive bidding procedures, satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Contracts estimated to cost, after grouping in accordance
with appropriate procurement standards, an amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $250,000, in the case of works, and not exceed-
ing the equivalent of $150,000, in the case of materials and
equipment,   but  up  to   an  aggregate   amount  equivalent   of
$8,000,000, may be awarded after evaluation and comparison of at
least three quotations from contractors or suppliers, as the case
may be. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated
bidders.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts procured in accordance with
the procedure set forth in paragraph A above:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Guarantor shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 11 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Guarantor shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Guarantor and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Guarantor and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 30% of the original price, the Guarantor shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it detarmines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inlorm the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this        -day of"           8 3.
FOR SECRETARY


