                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00002961



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-81090)



                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY

                                     FOR A

               PUBLIC SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                                  June 13, 2014




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective 06/02/2014)

                       Currency Unit =
                    G$ 1.00 = US$ 0.00022
                    US$ 1.00 = G$4,423.5

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 – December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANNP     Ports Company (Administración Nacional de Navegación y Puertos)
CAPASA   Beverage Company (Cañas Paraguayas Sociedad Anonima)
CNEP     National Council for State-Owned Enterprises (Consejo Nacional de
         Empresas Públicas)
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DGEP     SOE General Directorate (Dirección General de Empresas Públicas)
DPL      Development Policy Loan
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
ESSAP    Sanitation Services Company of Paraguay (Empresa de Servicios
         Sanitarios del Paraguay)
FEPASA   Railways Company (Ferrocarilles del Paraguay Sociedad Anonima)
LTU      Large Taxpayer Unit (Dirección General de Grandes Contribuyentes)
MECIP    Paraguayan Standard Model of Internal Control (Modelo Estándar de
         Control Interno del Paraguay)
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
NLTA     Non-Lending Technical Assistance
PDO      Program Development Objectives
PEFA     Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PSDPL    Public Sector Development Policy Loan
SET      Undersecretariat of Taxes (Subsecretaría de Estado de Tributación)
SOE      State-owned enterprise
UMEP     SOE Monitoring Unit (Unidad de Monitoreo de Empresas Públicas)
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
VAT      Value-added Tax

                Vice President:   Jorge Familiar
              Country Director:   Jesko Hentschel
               Sector Manager:    Arturo Herrera Gutierrez
            Task Team Leaders:    Raul Felix Junquera-Varela/Fanny Weiner
             ICR Team Leader:     Raul Felix Junquera-Varela/Fanny Weiner
          Primary ICR Authors:    Ana Mie Horigoshi Reis/
                                  Marianne Carolina Caballero Parra
                                             PARAGUAY
                                Public Sector Development Policy Loan


                                                      CONTENTS

B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... ii 
C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... ii 
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................... iii 
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. iii 
F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... iv 
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs ................................................................ vii 
H. Restructuring ............................................................................................................ vii 
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4 
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 15 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15 
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 17 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 17 
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 19 
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 21 
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 21 
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 21 
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 21 
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 22 
MAP .............................................................................................................................. 23 




                                                                i
A. Basic Information
                                                                   Public Sector Reform
Country:               Paraguay              Program Name:         Development Policy
                                                                   Loan
Program ID:            P117043               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-81090
ICR Date:              06/13/2014            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                   REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument: DPL                      Borrower:
                                                                   PARAGUAY
Original Total
                    US$ 100.00M         Disbursed Amount:          US$ 100.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:     US$ 100.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                         Revised / Actual
    Process             Date            Process          Original Date
                                                                             Date(s)
Concept
                   09/28/2011       Effectiveness:        11/26/2012       11/07/2012
Review:
Appraisal:         10/24/2011       Restructuring(s):
                                    Mid-term
Approval:          12/13/2011
                                    Review:
                                    Closing:              12/31/2013       12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                    Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                 Moderate
Bank Performance:                            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                        Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank               Ratings          Borrower                      Ratings
                         Moderately                                      Moderately
Quality at Entry:                      Government:
                         Satisfactory                                    Satisfactory
Quality           of                   Implementing
                         Satisfactory                                    Satisfactory
Supervision:                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank             Moderately    Overall Borrower                  Moderately
Performance:             Satisfactory  Performance:                      Satisfactory


                                            ii
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                       QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                           Rating:
     Performance                               (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                         Quality at Entry
Program at any time      Yes                                None
                                         (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at                      Quality of
                         No                                 None
any time (Yes/No):                       Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before
                         Satisfactory    N/A                N/A
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                     Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                    100               100



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other public sector governance                         34                 34
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                       33                 33
procurement
Tax policy and administration                          33                 33

E. Bank Staff
      Positions                   At ICR                     At Approval
Vice President:      Jorge Familiar                  Pamela Cox
Country Director:    Jesko Hentschel                 Penelope J. Brook
Sector Manager:      Arturo Herrera Gutierrez        Arturo Herrera Gutierrez
                     Raul Felix Junquera-Varela/
Program Team Leader:                                 Alexandre Arrobbio
                     Fanny Weiner
                     Raul Felix Junquera-Varela/
ICR Team Leader:
                     Fanny Weiner
                     Ana Mie Horigoshi Reis/
ICR Primary Author: Marianne Carolina Caballero
                     Parra




                                         iii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Program Document)
The overall development objective of the proposed Public Sector DPL (PSDPL) is to
contribute to effectiveness and efficiency of the public sector. This is expected to be
reached via the following specific objectives: (i) exerting effective Oversight of SOEs;
(ii) improving Central Administration's internal financial controls; and (iii) strengthening
the tax system.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original
approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target Formally        Actual Value
                                         Values (from      Revised       Achieved at
    Indicator        Baseline Value
                                            approval       Target       Completion or
                                          documents)       Values       Target Years
                 SOEs oversight: SOEs financial operations are carried out in a
Indicator 1 : transparent manner and are subject to the scrutiny by the Government
                 and civil society
                                       Online                         Audited financial
Value                                  publishing of                  statements for
                 No audited financial
(quantitative or                       SOEs audited                   2012 have been
                 statements
Qualitative)                           financial                      published on
                                       statements                     UMEP's website
Date achieved 07/01/2011               12/31/2013                     11/22/2013
Comments
(incl. %         (Achieved) 100 percent achieved
achievement)
Indicator 2 : SOEs oversight: Timely delivery of SOEs audited financial statements
                                       SOEs financial
                                                                      Audit reported for
                                       statements are
Value                                                                 7 out of 9 SOEs
                 No audited financial available no later
(quantitative or                                                      were published
                 statements published than June 30 of
Qualitative)                                                          before June 30,
                                       the following
                                                                      2013.
                                       year
Date achieved 12/31/2010               12/31/2013                     11/22/2013
                 (Achieved) Only 7 of 9 audits were published on June 30, however one
Comments
                 of the SOEs is not operational and therefore does not furnish financial
(incl. %
                 statements to be audited; and the other SOE published it with a delay of
achievement)
                 less than a month.
                 SOEs oversight: Recovery of 20 percent of the past-due debt
Indicator 3 :
                 accumulated by Central Administration entities with SOEs
Value            0.00                  20.00                          0.00


                                            iv
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2010                12/31/2013                   11/22/2013
                 (Not achieved) 0 percent. The Budget Law 2013 included a program
Comments
                 (budget line) in the budget of the Ministry of Finance but was not
(incl. %
                 implemented. The 2014 budget of SOEs also includes a line for those
achievement)
                 repayments.
                 SOEs oversight: Rate of timely payments reaches 80 percent for basic
Indicator 4 : services provided to the State by SOEs (Electricity,
                 Telecommunications, Water)
Value
(quantitative or 51.00                  80.00                        77.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2010                12/31/2013                   12/31/2013
Comments         (Underachieved) 90 percent achieved. Even though the Budget Law of
(incl. %         2013 included a provision for those payments, regulation for its
achievement) implementation was never established.
                 SOEs oversight: At least 5 SOEs have established targets that can be
Indicator 5 :
                 monitored on a regular basis by UMEP
                                                                     7 SOEs have
                                        At least 5 SOEs
                                                                     management
                                        have established
Value                                                                contracts
                                        targets that can
(quantitative or No targets monitored                                establishing
                                        be monitored on
Qualitative)                                                         targets that are
                                        a regular basis by
                                                                     monitored on a
                                        UMEP
                                                                     regular basis
Date achieved 12/31/2010                12/31/2013                   11/22/2013
Comments
                 (Overachieved) 100 percent. New management contracts for 2013-2015
(incl. %
                 were signed between the SOEs and the Government.
achievement)
                 SOEs oversight: The number of hours of power outage as measured by
Indicator 6 :
                 hrs/year per user has dropped to 11 hours
Value
                 11.20 hrs/year per 11.00         hrs/year           15.87 hrs/year per
(quantitative or
                 user                   per user                     user
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2010                12/31/2013                   31/12/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Not achieved. .
achievement)
                 SOEs oversight: The coverage of ESSAP water access as measured by
Indicator 7 : the percentage of households in urban areas with access to water has
                 increased to 89.2 percent
Value
(quantitative or 79.4 percent           89.20 percent                89.4 percent
Qualitative)


                                          v
Date achieved      12/31/2010           12/31/2013                      11/22/2013
Comments
(incl. %           (Achieved) 100 percent
achievement)
                   SOEs oversight: The percentage of user complaints to ESSAP has
Indicator 8 :
                   decreased to 18 percent
Value
(quantitative or   19.00 percent        18.00 percent                   Not available
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2010           12/31/2013                      11/22/2013
Comments
                   This indicator was removed from management contracts and stopped
(incl. %
                   being monitored.
achievement)
                   SOEs oversight: Fixed telephone line installation time has decreased to
Indicator 9 :
                   17 days
Value
(quantitative or 20.00                  17.00                            10.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2010                12/31/2013                       11/22/2013
Comments
(incl. %         (Overachieved) 100 percent
achievement)
                 Central Administration Internal Financial Control: PEFA Indicators for
Indicator 10 : internal control and internal audit (PI-20 and PI-21) for 50 percent of the
                 ministries are rated C
                                        PI-20 and PI-21
Value
                                        for 50 percent of
(quantitative or PI-20 and PI-21: D+                                     Achieved
                                        the ministries are
Qualitative)
                                        rated C
Date achieved 12/31/2010                12/31/2013                       11/22/2013
Comments
(incl. %         (Achieved) 100 percent
achievement)
Indicator 11 : Tax System: Tax-to-GDP ratio is at least 13.8 percent
Value
(quantitative or 13.40                  13.80                            13.80
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2010                12/31/2013                       11/22/2013
                 (Achieved) 100 percent
                 GDP measurement methodology in the country has been altered through
Comments
                 the inclusion of the sale of energy by the Bi-national energy firms Itaipu
(incl. %
                 and Yasireta to the national production levels, the number above does
achievement)
                 not include this change. With this inclusion the tax to GDP ratio would
                 decrease to 12.7 percent. Notwithstanding, using this altered GDP



                                             vi
                calculation, and adding to the tax collection (numerator of the indicator)
                the royalties provided by these Bi-national firms, the Tax-to-GDP ratio
                would reach 15.5 percent for 2012.



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                     Original Target Formally          Actual Value
                                       Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value
                                         approval         Target      Completion or
                                       documents)         Values       Target Years
                Tax System: Ratio of audits of large taxpayers that result in additional
Indicator 1 :
                assessment exceeds 70 percent
Value
(quantitative or 55.00                70.00                            75.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2010              12/31/2013                       11/22/2013
Comments
(incl. %         (Achieved) 100 percent
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                       IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                       (US$ millions)
  1    03/29/2012        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    10/06/2012        Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              0.00
  3    03/27/2013        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    99.75
  4    12/21/2013        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    99.75


H. Restructuring
Not Applicable




                                           vii
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      More than half-way through its mandate, the Government of President Lugo
had been making considerable progress in the execution of the Government Plan.
The Strategic Economic and Social Plan for 2008-2013 aimed to achieve a sustainable
and equitable economic growth path, and to improve effectiveness and efficiency of the
public sector while addressing the urgent needs of Paraguay’s most vulnerable groups.
2.       In addition to its Plan, the Government was committed to maintain a stable
macroeconomic framework. The Paraguayan economy was strengthened and was the
fastest growing economy in Latin America in 2010, at a rate of 13.1 percent. The 2009
crisis had temporarily interrupted the economic turn-around observed in the years before
it, but in the post 2009 scenario the Government was able to implement a counter-cyclical
stimulus package while maintaining medium-term reform efforts. As part of the
Government’s fiscal consolidation program, debt-to-GDP 1 ratio was reduced and was
expected to be manageable even under a significant slowdown in global growth; and
inflation was kept under control, with single-digit inflation in most years.
3.      To continue progress on the implementation of the Government Plan, the
administration sought to build on a Programmatic Development Policy Loan series
that had started in 2009. The programmatic series was prepared in the context of an
incoming government and an uncertain economic outlook; it was conceived to support
the Government via four components: internal financial control, oversight of state-owned
enterprises (SOEs), efficiency of public expenditure, and civil service reform. The first
operation (First Public Sector Programmatic DPL – P113457) was approved and fully
implemented in 2009. However, the triggers for the second operation were not completed
in time2, resulting in the cancellation of the series.
4.      Despite the termination of the Programmatic Series, the First Public Sector
Programmatic DPL largely achieved its Program Development Objective and
medium-term outcomes on three of the four areas it supported. In Tax System, it
contributed to improving revenue collection and the equity of the tax system. In the
Public Sector Financial Control, the operation contributed to (i) improving the
effectiveness of the Central Administration’s internal and financial control; and (ii)
strengthening the oversight of SOEs to ensure their sound and transparent financial
management. In Expenditure Management, the operation contributed to protecting
budgetary allocations for social and capital expenditures during the financial crisis, while
marginally enhancing their overall efficiency and equity.
5.      The medium-term reforms achieved in tax administration and SOEs oversight,
as well as in other areas, were considerable, but still susceptible to political change. At
the time of preparation of this operation, two years remained in the administration’s


1
 Gross Domestic Product
2
 The triggers were achieved with a slight delay in respect to the two-year period authorized between the
board dates of two operations in programmatic series.


                                                   1
mandate, and the main challenge was to advance the reform agenda and consolidate its
achievements without a majority of the governing administration in the Congress.
6.      Within this context, the Government requested World Bank support for its
reform effort focusing on the most successful areas of reform so far. Through a
streamlined continuation of the aforementioned Development Policy Loan (DPL), the
Government decided to focus on SOE oversight, internal control, and the tax system. Given
both the need for streamlining the reform program and the normative requirements of
programmatic DPLs, the Government requested a stand-alone operation, but indicated its
commitment to continue reforms in the medium term. The operation was aligned with the
Bank’s FY09-13 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) and directly supported two out of
three CPS pillars: (i) governance and anti-corruption; (ii) growth with equity. The SOE and
internal control components supported the first pillar, while the tax administration
component supported the latter.
1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.      The overall objective of the PSDPL was to contribute to the effectiveness and
efficiency of the public sector. This was expected to be reached via the following
specific objectives: (i) exerting effective oversight of SOEs; (ii) improving the Central
Administration’s internal financial control; and (iii) strengthening the Tax System.
                    Paraguay’s Public Sector Development Policy Loan – PSDPL
               Program Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Outcome Indicators
                                       Policy Area 1. SOEs Oversight
PDO 1 – Exerting effective oversight of SOEs
 SOEs financial operations are carried out in a transparent manner and are subject to scrutiny by the
  Government and civil society. Target: online publishing of SOEs audited financial statements.
 Timely delivery of SOEs audited financial statements. Target: SOEs audited financial statements are
  available no later than June 30 of the following year.
 Recovery of 20 percent of the past-due debt accumulated by Central Administration entities with SOEs.
  (Baseline 2010: 0 percent of the certified aggregated amount of debt was reimbursed (Gs 365 billion).
 Rate of timely payments reaches 80 percent for basic services provided to the State by SOEs
  (Electricity, Telecommunication, and Water). (Baseline Jan-Jun 2010: 51 percent)
 At least 5 SOEs have established targets that can be monitored on a regular basis by UMEP.
 The number of hours of power outage as measured by hs/year per user has declined to 11 hours
  (Baseline: 2010: 11.2 hs/year per user)
 The coverage of ESSAP water access as measured by the percentage of households in urban areas with
  access to water has increased to 89.2 percent (Baseline January 2010: 79.4 percent).
 The percentage of user complaints to ESSAP has decreased to 18 percent (Baseline 2010: 19 percent).
 Fixed telephone lines installation time has decreased to 17 days (Baseline 2010: 20 days).
                        Policy Area 2. Central Administration Internal Control
PDO 2 – Improving the Central Administration’s internal financial control
 PEFA Indicators for internal control and internal audit (PI-20 and PI-21) for 50 percent of the ministries
  are rated C, which shows: (i) A more comprehensive set of internal control rules, and (ii) a broader
  coverage and quality of internal audit function and a higher degree of management response to internal
  audit findings. (Baseline: 2008 Integrated Fiduciary Assessment rating for PI-20 and PI-21: D+)
                                         Policy Area 3. Tax System
PDO 3 – Strengthening the Tax System
 Tax-to-GDP ratio is at least at 13.8 percent. (Baseline 2010:13.4 percent)
 Ratio of audits of large tax payers that result in additional assessment exceeds 70 percent. (Baseline 2010:
  55 percent)



                                                      2
1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification
Not Applicable.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program

Policy Area 1 – SOEs Oversight
8.      The policy goal was to strengthen the SOE oversight framework previously
established with the support of other Bank operations. The size and performance of
SOEs represent a significant challenge to Paraguayan economy 3 , and while the
Government program had made significant strides in improving SOE oversight and
governance, the intention was to further strengthen and consolidate those achievements. In
turn, this would improve the efficiency and efficacy of SOEs and presumably be reflected
in better government finances and basic services delivery. In the recent past the Paraguayan
SOE sector moved from a completely decentralized model, with virtually no transparency
and accountability mechanisms, to an example of best practice in the region. Many of these
achievements were reached under the previous DPL, and consolidated under this operation.
The reform measures were based on three pillars: institutional framework; financial
transparency; and results-based management. The solidification of previous reforms was
to be achieved through creating an adequate institutional framework for SOE oversight
and ownership based on regional examples and good practices; increasing transparency
by strengthening audit and financial management of SOEs and by publishing annual
financial statements; and introducing the fundamentals of results-based management in
the largest SOEs, with a view to improving service delivery performance.

Policy Area 2– Central Administration Internal Financial Control
9.      The policy goal was to improve the administration’s internal financial
control. Advances in the policy were already significant, as exemplified by the gradual
successful implementation of the Paraguayan Standard Model of Internal Control
(Modelo Estándar de Control Interno del Paraguay – MECIP), which began in 2008.
Throughout 2010, the gradual implementation of MECIP continued to make solid
advances. The improvements mentioned were reflected in the 2011 Public Expenditure
and Financial Accountability (PEFA) assessment, showing an upward trend in
Paraguay’s internal control and auditing. The PEFA indicators for internal control and
internal audit (PI-20 and PI-21) for 50 percent of the ministries were expected to be rated
C, which would show: (i) a more comprehensive set of internal control rules, and (ii) a
broader coverage and quality of internal audit function and a higher extent of
management response to internal audit findings.

Policy Area 3 – Tax system

10.     The policy goal was to improve the tax system. To address low tax revenues, the
Government implemented a comprehensive tax reform in 2004 aimed at simplifying and
increasing the efficiency of the Paraguayan tax system. The tax administration (SET)


3
 The SOE sector in Paraguay is comprised of 9 companies, with an aggregate budget equivalent to 14.1
percent of GDP and total investments equivalent to 1.3 percent of GDP.


                                                 3
focused on streamlining core processes such as taxpayer register and taxpayer single
account and on overhauling IT infrastructure and IT systems. This resulted in significantly
increasing the number of taxpayer registered in the tax roll and expanding e-service. At the
moment of the preparation of the operation, the Government had shifted its reform effort to
increasing the efficiency of its large tax payers unit. Strengthening the Large Taxpayers
Unit’s (LTU) audit capacity was deemed a key component of the reform effort and was
hence selected as prior action for the operation. The increase in tax audits performed by the
LTU in 2009-2010 was considered a second significant step, and was hence also selected as
a prior action. The selected prior actions were deemed to support the key outcome
indicators of the tax component of the reform plan. Key outcome indicators for the tax
component were that (i) the tax-to-GDP ratio remains above 13.8 percent; and (ii) the ratio
of audits of large tax payers that result in additional assessment exceeds 70 percent.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas
Not Applicable

1.6 Other significant changes
11.     Initially approved by the Board of Executive Directors on December 13, 2011,
the Program was not declared effective until November 7, 2012. The impeachment of
President Lugo in June 2012 delayed Congress approval and therefore effectiveness. The
effectiveness date was extended twice, resulting into an elapsed time of 11.5 months after
Board approval.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

       Goals                      Prior Actions/Targets for Board Approval – DPL Program
                                            1. SOEs Oversight
1.1 Establishing
                    The Government has strengthened the institutional framework associated with SOE
Institutional
                     management through: (i) the submission to Congress of a law draft proposing the
Framework for
                     legal establishment of the CEP and the UMEP and (ii) the approval by CEP of the
Government
                     UMEP’s Organizational-Operational Manual.
Ownership of SOEs 
                    CEP ensures greater transparency in SOE management via implementation of
                     annual external audits, elaborated according to CEP standards.
                    The Government has developed a strategy to liquidate expenditure payment arrears
1.2 Exerting         and ensure the timely payment of basic services by Central Administration entities to
Effective SOE        SOEs, which includes: (i) the creation of an Inter-institutional Technical Commission
Oversight            composed by the Ministry of Finance, the State Attorney General, and the SOEs; (ii)
                     the validation of expenditure payment arrears between the Central Administration and
                     the SOEs; and (iii) the Government has established specific mechanisms to ensure
                     timely payment of services provided by SOEs to Central Administration entities.
                    The Government has introduced a results-based framework, aimed at increasing
                     SOEs’ service delivery capacities. At least 5 SOEs, representing around 80 percent of
1.3 Introducing      consolidated SOE expenditures, have signed their respective performance
SOE’s Results-       management contracts, which include standardized management procedures and
Based Management     financial targets.
                    UMEP has recently established a balanced scorecard that connects it directly to
                     SOEs’ economic, financial and technical follow-up indicators.



                                                  4
                         2.   Central Administration Internal Financial Control & Audit
2.1 Improving
                          Five ministries, representing approximately 70 percent of Central Administration’s
Central
                           overall budget, have established internal control committees, internal control
Administration
                           norms, and have trained staff to implement the MECIP. Their respective internal
Internal Financial
                           audit units (AIIs) have an adequate number of employees.
Control 
                                                   3. Tax Systems
                          SET has strengthened its audit capacities for large taxpayers through: (i) the issuance
                           of a resolution by SET and the Superintendencia de Bancos to allow for the audit of
                           financial institutions classified as large taxpayers; and (ii) the implementation of a
                           training program for auditors from the large taxpayers unit (DGGC).
3.1 Improving the
                          SET has significantly increased the number of large taxpayers subject to tax audits
tax system 
                           (Baseline: 2008= 20) through: (i) 40 audits in 2009; (ii) 32 specialized audits of
                           large enterprises in 2010, including two highly specialized ones.
                          Tax Certificates. SET issued 122,609 tax-compliance certificates in 2009, and
                           280,105 certificates in 2010.
12.     Program implementation and disbursement took place smoothly and without any
major issues after the loan became effective. Below, more detail is provided with respect to
each prior action and how they support the policy areas chosen for the operation.

Establishing Institutional Framework for Government Ownership of SOEs
13.      Strengthened institutional framework associated with SOE management.
The submission of the “CNEP law” and its approval in September 2013 gave a stronger
legal backing than the decrees they had in place. The CEP - which was approved as
CNEP (Consejo Nacional de Empresas Publicas) - was established with the status of a
vice-ministry, putting it in a strong position within the Government. With the same law,
the former technical body UMEP (Unidad de Monitoreo de Empresas Públicas) was
institutes as the General Directorate of State-owned Enterprises (Dirección General de
Empresas Públicas - DGEP4). The approval of the organizational-operational manuals
clarified the roles and functions of both institutions and together those actions gave
institutional support for CNEP and UMEP to perform their strategic roles.

Exerting Effective SOE Oversight
14.     Greater transparency in SOE management via implementation of annual
external audits. The annual external audits required from all SOEs greatly increased
transparency as all audit reports were published online on UMEP’s website.
15.     Development of a strategy to liquidate expenditure payment arrears and
ensure the timely payment of basic services by central administration entities to SOEs.
The large amount of payment arrears by the Central Administration with the SOEs
represented a threat to their finances. As it was considered normal behavior and it is very
difficult to cut the provision of basic services, recovering these arrears proved very difficult.
The plan initially developed predicted the repayment in 5 parcels of 20 percent in addition
to keeping up to date payment of the current bills through the mandatory inclusion of a
budget line for basic services’ payments. While the repayments were expected to begin in
2013 and a provision was made for this end, the authorization for the Ministry of Finance


4
    For the purpose of this document, the name UMEP will be used.


                                                      5
to perform payments by central administration entities was not included in the Regulatory
Decree of the National General Budget. In order to facilitate this process for 2014, a line was
included in the budget of public entities for that end, guaranteeing the payments to the SOEs.

Introducing SOE’s Results-Based Management
16.     Introduction of a results-based framework, aimed at increasing SOEs’
service delivery capacities. The implementation of a results-based management model
across the Paraguayan SOEs aimed at improving SOEs performance at service delivery.
The use of management agreements started with 5 major SOEs that represented 80
percent of total SOE-consolidated expenditures and was eventually implemented by all
but 2 of the SOEs. The positive feedback from the SOEs that pioneered the implementation
of the agreements was fundamental for the adoption of such model by the other SOEs.
However, UMEP’s technicians are very emphatic on the benefits already achieved by
easing their monitoring activities. Furthermore, UMEP’s establishment of a balanced
scorecard that connects it directly to SOEs’ economic, financial and technical follow-up
indicators. The automated tool providing an online connection with SOEs management
systems allowed for easier monitoring from UMEP, improving decision-making and
performance assessment processes.
Improving Central Administration Internal Financial Control
17.     MECIP implementation. Advances in the central administration’s internal financial
control were already significant, as exemplified by the gradual and successful
implementation of the standardized internal control called MECIP. The MECIP was
introduced in 2008 through Presidential decree, and was aimed at sustaining continued
improvement of public institutions by strengthening internal control practices and capabilities.
The implementation of MECIP had been reinforced by the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) supported Umbral program, which provided technical
assistance and intensive training to ensure adequate and gradual implementation of MECIP.
Throughout 2010, the gradual implementation of MECIP continued to make solid advances.
18. Strengthening of Internal Audit Office (Auditoría General del Poder Ejecutivo –
AGPE), and spending units’ Internal Audit Units (AIIs) institutional capacity. The
Government issued two decrees that provide the legal foundations for strengthening internal
controls throughout the Executive branch. Decree 10883 (2007) upgraded the Office of the
Executive’s Internal Auditor (AGPE) to ministerial level and gave AGPE the authority to: a)
establish a standard for internal control to be applied to all public entities; and (b) determine
the criteria for selection and removal of internal auditors working for the central
administration. Accordingly, it has issued instructions supporting the implementation of
MECIP throughout the public administration and is auditing the progress being made toward
its implementation at institutional level. Third, the Government Auditing Manual was
prepared by AGPE in coordination with the General Comptroller’s Office to ensure that
auditing procedures were clearly specified and consistent throughout the Executive branch.
Finally, and depicted in the 2011 PEFA study, AGPE’s and the AIIs’ technical and
institutional capacity was significantly strengthened as a result of a remarkable increase in
financial resources and professional staff. These advances were recognized within the DPL
through the inclusion of adequate number of employees in AIIs as a prior action.
Improving the tax administration and tax system


                                               6
19. The Undersecretariat of Taxes (Subsecretaría de Estado de Tributación – SET)
significantly strengthened its audit capacity through executive action and training.
The Government implemented two measures in this context: in 2010 SET issued a joint
resolution with the Superintendencia de Bancos allowing the audit of financial
institutions, for the first time, including those classified as large taxpayers.5 In addition, it
implemented a training program for auditors of the LTU. In an environment where low
capacity has constrained the Government’s ability to perform its audit and control
function, basic training was considered a significant first step.
20.     SET increased the number of audits performed. In 2010, a total of 32 audits on
large taxpayers were initiated, including 2 highly specialized cases. This was in addition
to achievements during implementation of DPL1 were SET managed to double the
number of audits on large taxpayers from 20 in 2008 to 40 in 2009. The relevance of this
step became even more apparent in the light of several years without audits due to a lack
of transparency and adequately trained auditors.
21.     Issuance of Tax Certificates instated: in 2009-2010, the Government
complemented LTU reforms with issuing tax-compliance certificates. The measure of
issuing certificates is an important reform step towards transparency and tax compliance.
The authorities demonstrated their commitment by issuing 122,609 certificates in 2009
and another 280,105 in 2010. Certificates can easily be requested either on-line
(accessing the tax management system Marangatu) or at SET customer-service platforms.
An important feature of the certificates is that taxpayers with payment arrears or delays in
the submission of their tax statements are not eligible for the certificate. These certificates
are mainly required as a pre-condition for engaging in contracts with the public sector.

      2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

22.     External circumstances affected implementation. Global economic fluctuations,
the fragmented state of the Government’s alliance, and the limited capacity of public
sector were adequately identified in the Program design and proper mitigation measures
were attributed. However unpredictable factors affected implementation causing the
delays in the Program. The main unpredicted factor to affect implementation was the
unexpected change of Government in 2012. The Government’s lack of majority at
Congress and the fragmented political alliances at the time of design were foreseen, but the
impeachment of President Lugo, followed by an interim Government and eventually early
elections could not be predicted.
23.     Nevertheless, the Government’s continued commitment to the operation
facilitated implementation after effectiveness was declared. The Government
maintained commitment throughout the program, supporting the implementing agencies’
performance at every stage of the Program. Likewise, the Bank’s responsiveness to the
Country’s needs allowed sustaining the Program despite political changes within the
country. Although the impeachment resulted in a considerable delay in the approval of the



5
    “Resolución General” 36/10.


                                               7
loan by the Paraguayan congress and declaration of effectiveness, the Bank's willingness to
extend the effectiveness date allowed for implementation and completion of the program.
24.     The continuous engagement of the Bank with the country facilitated putting in
place a viable operation, as it relied on lessons learned from the previous DPL and on
extensive knowledge products. Lessons learned through the previous DPL led the
operation to focus on the policy areas that were more likely to garner support. Moreover,
experience with the implementing agencies helped identify institutional capacity at the
outset and adjust Program to it. Knowledge products were used during the design stage of
the operation, but more importantly additional products were generated during the
operation, hence leading to a better-informed implementation, and paving the way for
further engagement.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E Design
25.    Overall, the DPL program benefited from a strong M&E system, with clearly
defined development objectives and intermediate indicators. Only 4 of the indicators
provided limitations:
  As recognized in the Program Document, the Tax-to-GDP ratio is not an optimal
   indicator of the Government’s tax effort for two reasons: (i) the supported reforms
   were geared to improve basic core processes which take time to yield results; (ii) the
   multiplicity of factors that influence the tax-to-GDP ratio muddle the causal linkage
   between the reforms, indicator, and outcome. Moreover, the country’s capacity only
   allows for one measurement of GDP per year. The long lags between reliable
   measures of the indicator increased the risk of a deviation or stalemate on the pursuit
   of the program’s objectives.
  Three service delivery indicators from the SOE Oversight component were extracted
   from management contracts between the SOEs and the Government. However, during
   implementation, a second generation of management contracts was signed and one
   indicator (percentage of user complaints to the water and sanitation company) was
   discontinued. Consequently, there was no available data for the Bank’s team to continue
   monitoring. Moreover, the success or failure in achieving these service delivery
   indicators cannot be directly attributed to the reforms supported by this operation, or are
   dependent on factors outside its scope. For example, to increase public service delivery
   often investment is needed; however, many SOEs do not have the financial means for
   such investments, hence failing on the improvement of service delivery indicators.
M&E implementation
26.    The Bank regularly monitored progress under through supervision missions and
communication with the implementing agencies. The Ministry of Finance, the main
counterpart agency, provided effective overall monitoring and evaluation and collected the
data needed to assess implementation progress from agreed sources. Technical counterparts
were cooperative and accurate in their reporting of data.




                                             8
2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

27.      Currently the Strengthening Tax Administration & SOE Corporate Governance
       6
NLTA (P148234) is in place. This technical assistance aims to contribute for the
sustainability of the reforms achieved with this operation, maintains engagement and
proved technical input for potential future operations in these areas. More specifically, it
tackles the areas of tax administration and SOEs: on the first area, the goal is to
contribute to protect sources of Value-Added Tax (VAT) revenue through enhanced
control/management of tax refund claims and cross cutting strategic management
support; and on the second area, the goal is to contribute to the increase in efficiency and
quality of service delivery by SOEs through improved corporate governance.
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

28.     The objectives of the PSDPL are consistent with the objectives of the
Government of Paraguay and of the Bank. The program continued to contribute to the
objectives outlined in the CPS 2012 Progress Report. The Government at the time
established improved governance as a priority at the outset, requesting Bank support on
stronger internal systems of controls under the Improved Governance and Anti-
Corruption pillar of the CPS.
29.    SOE oversight was established as a Government priority, given the size and
potential impact of SOE over the economy and had been a topic of collaboration between
the Bank and the Government of Paraguay in the previous years. Additionally, the SOE
component supported the cross-cutting themes addressed by the 2009-2013 Country
Partnership Strategy.
30.    SET continues the working relationship with the Bank, moving on to second
generation reforms. Evidence of this is the recent deployment, per SET’s express request,
of a Technical Assistance that includes assistance in preserving the integrity of the National
Government’s VAT income through enhanced control/management of tax refund claims.
31.     Moreover, continued dialogue with the new Government (sworn-in in August,
2013) has resulted on specific requests for technical assistance on two of the three policy
areas (SOE and Tax Administration) and a series of Policy Notes produced by the Bank
had chapters on both topics, hence demonstrating the sustained priority of the issues.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

32.     The PSDPL has achieved its development objectives. In Policy Area 1 it has
greatly contributed to the institutionalization of the SOE oversight mechanisms previously
implemented. In Policy Area 2 it has supported the improvement of internal controls on
several ministries. And in Policy Area 3 it has improved the quality of the tax system.



6
    Non-lending Technical Assistance


                                              9
Policy Area 1 – SOEs Oversight -- Exerting effective oversight of SOEs

33.      The policy goal of this component was to exert effective oversight of SOEs, and
through this channel contribute to the effectiveness and efficiency of the public sector.
The size and performance of SOEs constitute a significant challenge to the Paraguayan
economy. Nevertheless, significant achievements have been reached with the Government’s
efforts and the Bank’s support. Between the early 2000’s and the present day, Paraguay went
from a completely decentralized and unorganized with little control of the SOE sector to an
example of good practice in the region through its successful SOE reform.
34.     Paraguay’s starting point in the SOE sector was very low. There was no
centralizing institution with a global view of the sector; the SOEs did not publish audited
financial statements, so their finances were not transparent, much less easily available to
the public; and management was not performance-linked. The Government designed a
reform program in which three main areas were addressed: institutional framework for
oversight of SOEs; financial transparency; and results-based management. Under this policy
framework the oversight institutions, CNEP and UMEP, were further strengthened; SOEs
begun to have external audits conducted and its reports published online, increasing
transparency; and the implementation of performance agreements in most SOEs, aiming to
improve their performance in service delivery. Overall, some improvements in final service
delivery could already be observed, such as the increase in the percentage of households in
urban areas with access to water.
35.     The main actions implemented focused on consolidating the oversight
function supported by previous Bank operations. This was achieved through the
submission and eventual approval of the law institutionalizing CNEP with the status of a
vice-presidency, which greatly supported the institution in its regulatory relationship with
the major SOEs. Additionally, the strong technical capacity of UMEP supported its
relationship with the SOEs. Furthermore, the publication of audit reports and adoption of
management agreements between the SOEs and the Government facilitated UMEPs
function, as it had increased access to the SOEs financial and performance data.
36.     The Key outcome indicators for this policy area were largely achieved.
 Online publication of the audited financial statements. UMEP receives monthly
  financial statements from the SOEs, and audited financial statements are published
  annually for eight out of nine SOEs7.
 Recovery of arrears and timely payments. The initial plan was to have the past-due
  debt arrears repaid in 5 parcels of 20 percent of the debt beginning in 2013 and that
  public sector institutions were to prioritize payments for basic services. The budget law
  included such provisions; however it did not provide how this would be implemented.
  Hence, no payments for the arrears took place during 2013 and payment of basic
  services only increased marginally. The 2014 budget law includes a specific budget line
  for the payment of arrears and basic services and, which should facilitate the process.
  Furthermore, timely payments have been guaranteed by a provision that impedes public


7
 The only SOE that does not prepare financial statements is FEPASA, which currently is not operational.
Furthermore, out of the 8 SOEs that did publish their financial statements, 7 were timely and the ports company
(Administración Nacional de Navegación y Puertos – ANNP), the only one delayed, was less than a month late.


                                                     10
  sector institutions from making budget adjustments unless they are in time with basic
  service payments.
 Management contracts. The adoption of management contracts by the 5 major SOEs has
  improved not only UMEP’s ability to monitor them, but also their own control over the
  targets. The positive feedback from the SOEs themselves allowed for the implementation
  of management contracts in all but two of the SOEs, going beyond the initial target.
 Service delivery indicators. Some of the key outcome indicators were extracted from
  the management contracts between the SOEs and the Government and showed actual
  improvement at service delivery. While the percentage of urban households with water
  coverage by ESSAP has increased and the time for fixed telephone line installation has
  decreased, both surpassing the targets, the indicators on numbers of hours of power
  outage and the one on percentage of user complaints were not achieved by end-2012.
  As mentioned earlier, the monitoring of indicator on user complaints through the
  management contracts was discontinued.
37.     While from a strictly quantitative perspective it seems that a substantial part
of the outcome indicators was not achieved, it is important to emphasize that much
progress was made, and that the indicators might not reflect this adequately. Several
of the indicators chosen at the design stage of the Program are service delivery indicators.
Even though these indicators measure the intended final outcome, they do not necessarily
capture the effect of the intervention. As mentioned above, the success or failure in
achieving these indicators cannot be directly attributed to the reforms supported by this
operation, or are dependent on factors outside the scope of this operation.

Policy Area 2 – Central Administration Internal Control – Improving the Central
Administration’s internal financial control

38.      The policy goal was to improve the administration’s internal financial
control. The main advancement in the policy was the gradual implementation of the
standardized internal control called MECIP. The MECIP was introduced in 2008 through
Presidential decree, and was aimed at sustaining continued improvement of public
institutions by strengthening internal control practices and capabilities. The
implementation of MECIP had been reinforced by the USAID-supported Umbral
program, which provided technical assistance and intensive training to ensure adequate
and gradual implementation of MECIP. Throughout 2010, the gradual implementation of
MECIP continued to make solid advances, and MECIP adoption and deepening was
selected as a prior action for the operation.
39.     The improvements mentioned were reflected in the 2011 PEFA, showing an
upward trend in Paraguay’s internal control and auditing. The overall rating for PI-20
(Effectiveness of internal controls over non-personnel expenditures) and PI-21
(Effectiveness of the internal audit) was expected to be C for the 2010 PEFA assessment.8
Significant improvements observed in the areas of internal control and internal audit


8
 The 2010 PEFA was funded and implemented by the EU with a joint quality control from EU, World
Bank and IADB. The C rating was later confirmed on the Official Publication.


                                              11
allowed for an increase in the PEFA score for these two indicators from the D+ rating
obtained in the same indicators for the 2008 IFA. PI-20 score increased because internal
control procedures and rules were more comprehensive, thanks to the introduction of
MECIP. PI-21 score increased because of a higher coverage of a more effective internal
audit function, and a higher extent of management response to internal audit findings.
40.     Key outcome indicator in the area would reflect the improvement in internal
controls through the PEFA assessment. The PEFA indicators for internal control and
internal audit (PI-20 and PI-21) for 50 percent of the ministries were expected to be rated
C, which would show: (i) a more comprehensive set of internal control rules, and (ii) a
broader coverage and quality of internal audit function and a higher extent of
management response to internal audit findings.
41.     The development objective was achieved for this policy area. The Government
complied with all prior actions and was capable of maintaining throughout the period that
the program was in place the achievements obtained in terms of internal control:
implementation of MECIP continues underway, and PEFA indicators maintain its rating
of C for over 50 percent of ministries, exhibiting a more comprehensive set of internal
control rules, and a broader coverage of internal audit function, as well as a higher extent
of management response to internal audit finding.

Policy Area 3 – Tax System – Strengthening the Tax System

42.     The policy goal was to improve the tax system. Paraguay’s tax-to-GDP ratio
reached an average of 12 percent of GDP between 2004 and 2009, up from 9 percent in
the 1990s. However, this tax-to-GDP ratio still represented one of the lowest ratios in the
region and only 51 percent of its estimated tax potential. 9 As a result, expenditures
including social expenditures were lower in Paraguay than in most Latin American
neighbors and public service delivery is lagging. To address low tax revenues, the
Government implemented a comprehensive tax reform in 2004 aimed at simplifying and
increasing the efficiency of the Paraguayan tax system. As a result the active tax payer
base and revenues increased. Under the program, the Government had shifted its reform
effort to increasing the efficiency of its large tax payers unit.
43.      The improvement of capacity and execution of audit at the LTU and the
issuance of tax-compliance certificates were expected to generate higher tax
revenues in the medium term. By (i) legally allowing for the audit of financial
institutions, (ii) training auditors from the LTU, and (iii) increasing the number of audits,
and (iv) issuing tax certificates, these selected prior actions would support the key
outcome indicators of the tax component of the reform plan.
44.    In terms of the Tax-to-GDP ratio indicator, the target has been reached with
a 13.8 ratio for 2012. However, it should be noted that this value does not reflect a
recent change in GDP measurement methodology. The country recently altered the
methodology through the inclusion of the sale of energy by the Bi-national energy firms


9
  Tax potential is measured based on the country’s economic, geographic, demographic, social, and
institutional characteristics. IMF (2009), Diagnόstico del Sistema Impositivo Vigente en 2008.


                                               12
Itaipu and Yasireta to the national production levels, with this new methodology the ratio
would actually fall to 12.7. Notwithstanding, using the concept of fiscal tax burden10,
which would imply using this altered GDP calculation, and adding to the tax collection
(numerator of the indicator) the royalties provided by these Bi-national firms, the Tax-to-
GDP ratio would reach 15.5 percent for 2012, and 14.7 percent in 2011.
45.     It should be noted, however, that the tax-to-GDP ratio is not the best indicator
of progress towards improvement of the tax system. For any individual country in
"normal times", revenue collections, measured as a proportion of GDP, do not change
much year to year (see Moore (2013) or Bird (2010)). This mainly reflects the fact that the
overall tax take is to a significant degree determined by the structure of national economies.
While it is easier to collect revenue through taxes in economies that are mostly high income,
urban, and open, the government of an average low income country raises less than 20
percent of GDP in taxes. The high share of the agricultural sector in Paraguay’s GDP and
the fact that agriculture is mostly exempt have to be taken into consideration. One cannot
expect large increases on the tax-to-GDP ratio under these conditions.11
46.      On the other hand, linking improvements in control of compliance with
increased level of voluntary compliance or increased revenue is not an easy task.
First of all, the tax administration has started to control the large taxpayer segment and
showed some initial good results. The starting point is a very low capacity both in terms of
infrastructure and tax auditor skills. Secondly, while change in tax policies show immediate
results it takes time for administrative change to bear fruit.
47.     Program design recognized to an extent that the tax-to-GDP ratio is a
suboptimal indicator but chose it in light of the absence of better alternatives. In the PD
some caveats were included in terms of the inherent limitations of this indicator to measure
revenue performance. It was decided though to choose the tax take against better alternatives
in view of the fact that Paraguay does not measure the tax compliance gap on a regular basis.
48.     Through the prior actions, and attainment of the key outcome indicators, the
development objective of the policy area (i.e. to strengthen the tax system) was
achieved. Going beyond the fact that the Paraguayan tax system increased its tax-to-GDP,
during the period covered by the program, other significant achievements were attained:
the Large Tax Payers unit evidenced increased capacity by maintaining, and exceeding, a
70 percent ratio of audits resulting in additional assessment during the same period.
These outcomes, complemented by the prior results selected by the Bank: stronger audit
capacity of the SET, increased size of large taxpayers’ base, and issuance of tax
certificates; all result in a stronger tax system for the country.




10
   For an description and application of tax burden and its measurement of its ratios in Latin America, see
More Than Revenue Taxation as a Development Tool, 2013, edited by Corbacho, et al.; IDB.
11
   It is more useful to think in terms of tax potential of the tax system or tax effort. Tax potential can be
viewed as legal and economic potential and the design of the tax systems needs take into account the
economic, social, and institutional context. More specifically, there seems to be a significant and positive
relationship between tax burden and several factors such as level of development (per capita GDP), and
trade (import and exports as a percentage of GDP).


                                                    13
3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

49.     Despite failing to achieve several PDO Indicators, the PSDPL can be said to
have attained its development objectives. The SOEs reform achieved even more than
expected as the law institutionalizing the CNEP with a vice-ministry status was approved
by Congress and the implementation of management contracts in some of the SOEs were
so well received that they triggered the adoption of those by other SOEs. While many of
the indicators were not fully achieved, this can be attributed more to a flaw in indicator
choice than to an unsuccessful intervention. Particularly, the service delivery indicators
are linked to many other variables than only SOE oversight, and their achievement can
hardly be attributed only to the reforms implemented.
50.      In the case of the tax reform, the tax system was successfully improved, as
evidenced by the increase in the tax-to-GDP ratio. Moreover, in terms of internal audit
control, implementation of MECIP continues underway, and PEFA indicators maintain
its rating of C for over 50 percent of ministries. Nonetheless, shortcomings in some of the
outcome indicators subtracted from the program’s overall performance.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
51.     The operation was part of a sustained engagement with the country on SOE’s
and Tax Administration, two policy areas linked to the World Bank’s goals of poverty
reduction and shared prosperity. A stronger tax administration protects government
income that can be allocated in further redistributive efforts for the less well-off, whereas
SOEs efficiency and transparency enhances public service provision to the main beneficiaries
of the services: those on the bottom deciles of the income scale.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
52.     The PSDPL has had a significant impact on the institutional framework of
SOE oversight and tax administration. While previously CNEP was supported by a
parliamentary decree, this operation had the submission of a law proposal that formally
established CNEP as a prior action, and the law was finally approved in September 2013.
That had a considerable impact on the institution’s authority as an oversight institution.
Similarly, the strengthening of the Large Tax Payer Unit as a result of the program should
also be noted. The Program’s focus on the Large Taxpayer Unit reform is critical because
of the ripple effects of strengthening a specialized unit within an Administration. The
capacity enhancements within the unit allow it to pilot key processes that can be rolled
out to other taxpayer segments and functional areas.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
N/A

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A


                                             14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

53.      Institutional changes supported by the operation have exhibited no signs of
deterioration, and remain in place in all relevant Government agencies. The
transitional Government maintained commitment to reforms despite political turmoil while
the current Government has exhibited commitment to the reforms through the continued
engagement with the Bank in the form of Technical Assistance, covering tax administration
and SOE oversight. In this sense, the risk to development outcome is moderate.
54.    In the case of the SOE reform, the institutionalization of CNEP through a
law gave a strong legal backbone to the reforms achieved so far. As a consequence it
has greatly reduced the risk of a setback in the reform path. On the contrary, the Bank is
supporting the Government in the identification of subsequent reform steps to further
expanding and consolidation the reform agenda.
55.     However, on the tax administration component, lack of autonomy of the SET
makes the agency vulnerable to political change. International best practices in tax
administration encourage agency independence for Tax Administration when possible.
The SET is currently subscribed to the Ministry of Finance, and is as such vulnerable to
political interest that may come from the Executive Branch. Hence the reforms made in
terms of Tax Administration could minimize their risk of reversal by engaging in a
process of institutional emancipation from the MoF.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

56.    Operation design relied on sound analytical work, lessons learned from
previous DPL and a fruitful relationship with the counterpart. Substantial analytical
work provided the basis for an in-depth dialogue with the Government, and the lessons
learned from the previous Public Sector DPL operation informed the policy framework of
the operation. The Bank team had an intimate knowledge of the country’s situation and
challenges allowing for sound Program design. Nevertheless, the choice of some indicators
was not fully adequate to measure the achievement of the PDO, as some were subject to
many other variables12, making the link between actions and indicators a weak one.

(b) Quality of Supervision



12
  See analysis of link between PDO Indicators and Development Objectives on Section 3.2 Achievement
of Program Development Objectives


                                                15
Rating: Satisfactory


57.     The performance of the Bank on supervision was deemed satisfactory. The
team continued to provide analytical and advisory services as part of supervision in
addition to monitoring closely the developments and to ensure that prior actions are
sustained and desired outcomes are achieved. Moreover, during the period of unexpected
political transition, the Bank continued to provide technical assistance to the counterparts
that helped ensured that reform progress under the Program would continue.

58.     The sector and country teams coordinated to assure fiduciary and operational
control during the time before and after effectiveness. The team undertook two
supervision missions between December 2011 and May 2012, while during the political
transition the supervision was continued from headquarters. After effectiveness and
disbursement another mission was deployed to continue supervision, as reflected in the
filed Implementation Status Reports.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

59.    Overall, the Bank’s performance is considered moderately satisfactory for the
reasons stated above.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

60.    The Paraguayan government’s strong ownership of the proposed reforms
guaranteed the successful implementation. However, despite their extraordinary
commitment to the reforms in a context of political turmoil, there were delays in the
declaration of effectiveness and an extension was necessary. Consequently, this resulted
in the disbursement taking place only 11 month after Board approval; however, once
declared effective the disbursement followed immediately.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

61.     The Ministry of Finance, the main counterpart agency for the loan in its fiduciary
relationship with the Bank, successfully supported the implementation of the program,
provided effective overall monitoring and evaluation of the loan and collected the data
needed to assess implementation progress from agreed sources. Moreover, given the
overall achievements under the program and the sustained implementation of reforms
even during political transition periods, implementation effort has been satisfactory.


                                            16
62.    Technical counterparts were cooperative and accurate in their reporting of data,
and maintained steady and clear communication with the Bank team. On the SOE
component, particularly, the technical personnel at UMEP were very cooperative with the
Bank and engaged with the Program. Consequently, Implementing Agency performance
is deemed Satisfactory.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

63.    Overall, the Borrower’s performance is considered moderately satisfactory for the
reasons stated above.

6. Lessons Learned

64.     Strong national ownership proved once again to be a crucial element of a
successful operation. The strong commitment with the reforms is evidenced by the fact
that despite the political instability during the Program’s implementation, changes were
made and outcomes achieved.
65.    A strong knowledge background was essential for the choice of policy actions,
simultaneously combining relevance and political feasibility. More specifically the
team’s expertise in the specificities and challenges of the country was essential for a proper
assessment of the support for reforms across constituencies and gauging of political risk.
66.     Importance of having relevant, attributable and achievable indicators. When
choosing the PDO indicators, it is not only important to choose indicators sought to
capture the intended final outcome, but to also ensure that there is a significant causal
relationship. Indicators that are too broad and which might be easily impacted by many
factors that are not controlled by the intervention carry the risk of compromising the
measurement of the actual achievements and impact.
67.     Sustained engagement on the part of the Bank continues to be critical to
effectively support reform processes over the medium and long term. The uninterrupted
relationship between the Bank and the counterpart even at times when significant reform was
not feasible laid grounds for an effective partnership when the opportunity was presented.
68.    Supporting a policy area that counts on the clear commitment from the
government allows for increasingly complex reforms. In particular, the Government’s
focus on large taxpayers shows its commitment to shift from improving basic core
processes to second generation reforms, and the program’s successful support of these
measures exhibits the Bank’s adequacy as a development partner in the policy area.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies




                                             17
77.     The Borrower provided no comments for the Tax System and Internal Financial
Control components. As for the SOE policy area, the Borrower provided updated information
on the indicators, which were included in the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers - Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders - Not applicable.




                                           18
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

             Names                                   Title                          Unit
Lending
 Alexandre Arrobbio                Lead Public Sector Specialist               AFTP4
 Natalia Cecilia Bavio             Finance Analyst                             CTRLN
 Jasmin Chakeri                    Senior Economist                            OPSPQ
 Carolina Diaz-Bonilla             Senior Economist                            EASPW
 Enrique Fanta Ivanovic            Senior Public Sector Specialist             LCSPS
 Federico Guala                    Consultant                                  AFTP4
 Alejandro Guerrero Ruiz           Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.                   LCSPS
 Raul Felix Junquera-Varela        Senior Public Finance Specialist            LCSPS
 Friederike N. Koehler-Geib        Senior Economist                            LCSPE
 Mariano Lafuente                  Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.                   LCSPS
 Andres Mac Gaul                   Senior Procurement Specialist               LCSPT
 Claudia Rocio Manrique            Program Assistant                           LCSPS
 Patrick Rittenauer                E T Consultant                              LCSPE
 Fanny Weiner                      Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.                   LCSPS
Jorge Luis Alva-Luperdi            Senior Counsel                              LEGES
Alejandro Alcala                   Senior Counsel                              LEGES

Supervision
Raul Felix Junquera-Varela         Senior Public Finance Specialist                LCSPS
Fanny Weiner                       Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.                       LCSPS
Friederike N. Koehler-Geib         Senior Economist                                LCSPE
Ana Mie Horigoshi Reis             Junior Professional Associate                   LCSPS
Marianne Caballero Parra           Junior Professional Associate                   LCSPS
Daniel Chalupowicz                 Financial Management Specialist                 LCSFM


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                               US$ Thousands
             Stage
                                     No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                               consultant costs)
Lending
FY(10)                                       39.72                    258,686.69
FY(11)                                       22.87                    138,524.73
FY(12)                                       16.01                     54,055.52
                          Total:             78.60                    458,266.94


                                          19
Supervision/ICR
FY(12)                       3.88    20,166.72
FY(13)                      15.96    79,430.91
FY(14)                       9.04    39,099.71
                  Total:    28.88   138,697.34




                           20
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A


Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A


Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower did not prepare an ICR for this Program, and provided no comments for the
Tax System and Internal Financial Control components. As for the SOE policy area, the
Borrower provided updated information on the indicators, which were included in the ICR.


Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                          21
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank (2009), Paraguay - Country Partnership Strategy FY09-FY13, Report No.
48087-PY, 7 April 2009, Washington, DC.

World Bank (2009), Paraguay – First Public Sector Programmatic Development Policy
Loan, Program Document. Report No. 47712-PY, 31 March 2009, Washington, D.C.

Bird, Richard (2010). Taxation and Development. Economic Premise No. 34, PREM
World Bank, Washington DC.

World Bank (2011), Paraguay – First Public Sector Programmatic Development Policy
Loan, Implementation Completion and Results Report, Report No. ICR00001966,
October 11, 2011, Washington, DC.

World Bank (2012), Paraguay - Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report FY09-
FY2013; Report No 66782-PY, April 2012, Washington DC.

World Bank (2009-2013), Documents in Program’s Electronic File, including Loan
Agreement, PD, Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports;
WBDocs, Washington, D.C.

Moore, M. (2013). Obstacles to Increasing Tax Revenues in Low Income Countries.
International Centre for Tax and Development (ICTD); United Nations Research Institute
for Social Development (UNRISD)




                                         22
MAP




23
