Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2097 
Operation Name 
EG- FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Banking (85%) and Insurance (15%) 
Project ID 
P088877 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Investment and Central Bank of Egypt 
Date PID Prepared 
January 12, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 15, 2006  
Date of Board Approval 
June 15, 2006 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
1. 
The financial sector in Egypt has been, over the past decade and a half, the subject of 
reform efforts mainly aimed at financial liberalization to develop more effective financial 
instruments, strengthen the financial system
’s infrastructure, and enhance competitiveness 
through increased private sector participation. Egypt, as a result, has modernized its financial 
system in a measurable way, and provided increased autonomy and power to the monetary and 
regulatory authorities. In particular, the government 1991 Economic Reform and Structural 
Adjustment Program 
(
ERSAP) – supported by a World Bank adjustment operation – was 
designed to achieve macroeconomic stability of which an integral part was financial sector 
reform.  That reform program foresaw two phases. The first focused on developing more 
effective monetary and financial instruments to control liquidity, and liberalizing interest rates 
and credit. The second phase focused on increasing competitiveness in the financial market by 
enhancing private participation in commercial banking, securities, and insurance. The objectives 
of the first phase were by and large met, while phase two of the program did not extend beyond 
the establishment of a legal framework for bank privatization, as the sale of joint-venture or 
state-owned commercial banks were thought by the government to be premature given concerns 
for lack of public support. 
 
2. 
The financial sector, despite these positive steps, continues to face important challenges 
given the low levels of competition and financial intermediation (with large liquidity in the 
banking system), relatively high intermediation costs, limited innovation and dominance of state 
ownership. The banking system is burdened by high levels of non-performing loans, while the 
non-bank segment is characterized by underdeveloped bond, insurance, and mortgage markets, 
thin trading in equities, weak corporate governance, and weak infrastructure for effective 
payment systems. 
 
3. 
The Egypt 2002 Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) highlighted key priorities 
for financial sector reform, in banking and non-banking. A number of measures recommended in 
the FSAP were endorsed by the authorities – especially in what relates to strengthening the 
regulatory framework, addressing public bank loan portfolio problems, completing the 
privatization of joint venture banks, and restructuring the insurance industry to enhance its role 
Page  2
2
in resource mobilization. Some of the recommendations were implemented by the authorities,
1
notably in the context of the Banking Law 88 of 2003
2
introduced by the previous government. 
 
4. 
The new reformist government that took office in June 2004 set a major agenda for 
macroeconomic and structural reform and modernization. As part of this agenda, it submitted a 
program of financial reforms that was formally endorsed by the President of Egypt in September 
2004. Officially referred to as the 
“Financial Sector Reform Program”, it is to be implemented 
over 2005-08. The program represents the most far reaching, substantive and comprehensive 
drive towards financial sector strengthening to have been launched so far in Egypt – and indeed 
in any other country of the Middle-East North Africa region. 
 
5. 
The program aims mainly at: (i) consolidating the banking system in reducing by nearly 
2/3
rd
 the number of institutions in an over-banked domestic market – including the landmark 
decision to merge the two public banks, Banque Misr and Banque du Caire, the country’s second 
and third largest; (ii) divesting fully public sector shares in some 20 joint-venture banks (de facto 
largely controlled by state-owned financial institutions), creating thus the core of a domestic 
private banking system that would account for 20 percent of system deposits; (iii) privatizing the 
state-owned fourth largest commercial bank (Bank of Alexandria with 7 percent of sector 
deposits); (iv) restructuring the remaining two public sector banks (National Bank of Egypt, and 
the merged Banque Misr-Banque du Caire) through an in-depth capacity building program to 
allow them to play their role on a commercially viable basis in increasingly open and 
competitive markets (the authorities have yet to commit to the opening up of the capital of these 
two state-owned banks); (iv) reforming the insurance sector both at regulatory and company 
levels, inter-alia in privatizing at least one of the three state-owned (direct) insurance companies, 
and assessing the need for a major overhaul of the others, with a possible reallocation of market 
sub-segment activities; and (v) seeking to develop a new system of mortgage finance for a more 
sustainable housing finance market. 
 
6. 
Underpinning the whole program is a major effort at strengthening the regulatory 
capacity and supervisory apparatus. Lending further credence to the authorities’ determination to 
see the reforms through, sweeping executive measures – uncharacteristic of the consensus-driven 
Egyptian establishment – were taken with the appointment of a new central bank governor, new 
management at all supervisory and regulatory bodies, including the Egyptian Insurance 
Supervisory Authority, Capital Market Authority, Mortgage Finance Authority, and the Cairo 
and Alexandria Stock Exchange, and all four public sector insurance companies. In parallel, the 
newly established Ministry of Investment was given oversight for all non-bank financial 
institutions. To carry their program through, the authorities have sought financial and technical 
assistance from the USA, the European Union, the African Development Bank, the International 
Monetary Fund, and the World Bank, asking the latter, in addition, to coordinate potential 
support efforts. 
 
1
The authorities have already taken action in several of these priority areas, sometimes with technical and financial 
assistance from the World Bank, USAID, and European Union. 
2
Officially known as the Central Bank, Banking System, and Money Law 88 of 2003 includes 135 Articles. 
Page  3
3
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
7. 
The main development objective of the government financial sector reform program, and 
of the proposed World Bank operation, is to build a more resilient financial sector with a sound 
banking system and insurance industry that could contribute better, in the medium-term, to the 
provision of modern and effective financial services. The World Bank supports the government 
reform proposals, which in many areas are consistent with the World Bank assistance strategy 
for Egypt to support economic growth. The proposed operation would help achieve this objective 
by strengthening the enabling environment for financial intermediation and risk management, 
and increasing private sector participation in the provision of financial services. To this effect, 
World Bank assistance would seek to: (i) strengthen the regulatory and supervisory framework 
for banks and non-bank financial institutions to ensure compliance with international standards 
and effective enforcement; (ii) reform the banking system through consolidation, privatization of 
state-owned and joint-venture banks, and restructuring of the remaining public sector banks; and 
(iii) restructure the insurance industry to develop and deepen the financial sector (World Bank 
assistance in the areas of public pension and mortgage markets is being provided separately). 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
8. 
World Bank involvement in support of Egypt’s financial sector reform program would 
build upon the policy dialogue the World Bank has been conducting with the authorities over the 
recent years, particularly in the context of, and as a follow up to, the FSAP. The experience that 
the World Bank has gathered in development policy lending in the financial sector is highly 
valued by the authorities, as it would be brought to bear on, and guide the design and 
implementation of, the program. The authorities take further comfort from the long-term 
involvement of the World Bank in, and the comprehensiveness of its approach to, financial 
sector reform and development in Egypt. The  perception thus that the World Bank is prepared to 
remain engaged and support the authorities in moving with their reforms beyond the time-frame 
of the proposed loan – in a way congruent with the 2005-08 medium-term framework within 
which the government program is cast – makes of the World Bank a privileged partner. 
Moreover, the World Bank is expected to coordinate efforts of all bilateral and multilateral 
donors in a concerted way that would smooth the implementation of what is an ambitious and tall 
agenda. 
 
4. Financing 
 
9. 
The proposed loan in an amount of US$500 million equivalent is a single tranche, 
Development Policy Loan (DPL) to support the authorities’ in the priority areas and earlier phase 
of their financial sector reform program to be implemented over the period 2005-08. The reform 
program could be supported by follow-up operations, is a comprehensive, far-reaching effort to 
address salient financial sector weaknesses and enhance the system’s capacity for financial 
intermediation and the provision of financial services. The proposed DPL would be disbursed 
upon effectiveness, once a specific set of conditions is met. 
 
Page  4
4
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
10. 
The Ministry of Investment and the Central Bank of Egypt will be the two entities 
responsible for overall implementation of the proposed operation and for reporting progress and 
coordinating actions among other concerned agencies (insurance regulator and capital market 
authority). As mentioned in relation to the outcomes of the policy reforms, the World Bank will 
monitor actions and review progress of the implementation of the proposed operation. At the 
same time, the overall status of the government’s program will be monitored during supervision 
to ensure that the reform program is well on track. In addition, supervision missions will allow 
the Bank to continue the policy dialogue with the institutions involved in the implementation of 
the program of reform, and also ensure the deployment of staff and consultants able to advise the 
government in all of the policy and technical areas pertaining to the reforms.  
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
11. 
Benefits would result from addressing major impediments to a more efficient functioning 
of the financial system within a potentially stronger regulatory environment and enhanced role 
for the private sector in financial services. Resolution of the large stock of non-performing loans 
–
a
salient weakness of the banking sector – would strengthen in the medium-term the system’s 
capacity for financial intermediation, efficiency in mobilization of savings, and capacity to 
shoulder corporate sector activities and enhance growth. 
 
12. 
The main risks could be a slowdown of the reform momentum to a path that would not 
allow for a genuine change towards market-based, risk-taking business patterns in the public 
financial institutions (moral hazard issue). This relates particularly to the government’s 
commitment to and decisiveness in restructuring the remaining two large public sector banks – 
and until such time as their capital can be open to private sector entry, instilling the governance, 
culture and incentives that would weed out past business practices – the government ability to 
manage the related fiscal implications, and the capacity to build an independent and credible 
regulatory apparatus. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
13. 
The operation's objectives to improve the efficiency of the financial sector will have 
overall positive long-term economic impact, although bank restructuring would normally be 
associated in the short term with staff redeployment resulting from optimization of labor input 
and skill upgrading. In the context of the restructuring process, voluntary severance packages 
have been offered to employees who wish to avail themselves of early retirement schemes. 
Training programs are also offered to staff whose positions at their level of expertise may be 
eliminated. The proposed operation concerns broad strategic reform decisions and would 
therefore not include a social protection component, but this would be included in follow-up 
operations as these will include the implementation of the operational audit findings which will 
have a direct staff redeployment impact and which will need to be addressed (para. 98). The 
preparation of the proposed operation has so far entailed broad discussions with market 
participants from all pillars of the financial sector. 
 
Page  5
5
14. 
The policies supported by the proposed adjustment development policy loan are not 
likely to have any significant direct effects on the environment and natural resources. In addition, 
the indirect impacts that the DPL is likely to have on the environment are difficult to predict but 
are expected to be marginal. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Samir El Daher 
Title: Regional Financial Sector Advisor 
Tel: (202) 458-0050 
Fax:  (202) 522-2151 
Email: seldaher@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
