Documnot of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Iqwt No. 9042-RW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NOVEMBER 19, 1990
Africa Technical Department
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
This docuemt has a retrce distribution and may be wed by recipiets oily le the Wfonrman  of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY AND EQ'JIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Rwandese Franc (RF)
$1.0 - RF 74 up to November 1990, and
$1.0 - RF 123.3 from November 10, 1990 onwards
FISCAL YEAR
Government - January 1 - December 1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
CCCE          Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(Lending Agency of the French Government)
CCP           Comptes Ch&ques Postaux (Postal Checking Accounts)
DEL           Direct Exchange Line or line connected to the exchange
DGP           Direction Generale des Postes (Posts General
Directorate)
DGT           Direction Generale des Telecommunications
(Telecommunications General Directorate)
EIB           European Investment Bank
FAC           Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (Aid Agency of
the French Government)
GOR           Government of Rwanda
INTELSAT      International Consortium for Telecommunications
Satellites
ISD           International Subscriber Dialling
ITU           International Telecommunications Union
KBO           Kagera Basin Organization
MINITRANSCO   Ministry of Transport and Communications
ONATRACOM     Office National des Transports en Commun (Parastatal
of the Rwandese Government for public transportation)
PE Sector     Public Enterprises Sector
PO            Post Office
POTS          Plain Old Telephone Service, or basic telephone
service
RP            Regie des Postes (autonomous public postal entity)
SEMT          Societe d'Economie Mixte des Tklecommunications (Mixed
enterprise telecommunications company)
STD           Subscriber Trunk Dialing
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UPU           Universal Postal Union
VHF           Very High Frequency:  radio systems working in the
range of 30-300 MHz



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .i..  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...     .  -iii
I.  INTRODUCTION   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....1
Economic Context    ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ....1
II.  THE COMMUNICATIONS SECTORS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       2
Access to Telecommunications    . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    3
Use and Quality of Telecommurications Services    . . . .                    3
Existing Telecommunications Facilities    . . . . . . . .                    4
Demand for Telecommunications Services    . . . . . . . .                    4
Access to Postal Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    4
Use and Quality of Postal Services    . . . . . . . . . .                    5
Existing Postal Facilities    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    5
Demand for Postal Services    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    6
Sector Strategy and Goals   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    6
Sector Constraints....                                                       7
IDA Strategy....                                                             8
Project Focu3 ....8
III. THE IMPLEMENTATION AGENCIES.                                                    8
Sector Commercialization.                                                    8
Organization and Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   10
Planning and Operations Management    . . . . . . . . . .                   11
Staff and Training .11
Training Facilities .12
Accounting and Financial Management   . . . . . . . . . .                   12
Auditing .13
This report is based on the first findings of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs. O6rald
Buttex, Principal Tolecommunications Engineor (Task Manager), Jean Boutan, Sr. Financial
Analyst, Yves de Talhouot and Bernard Hauri-, Consultants, which visited Rwanda in February
1899, and on a post-appraisal w;ssion composed of Messrs. 06rald Buttax, Jean 9oe:lan and
Victor Abadie, Consultant, which visited Rwanda in August 1990, following decisions made by
Government and IDA regarding the Communications Sector Reform.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
IV.  THE INVESTMENT PROGRAMS AND THE PROJECT    . . . . . . . .                 13
A. Description    ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
Telecommunications Investment Program    . . . . . . .                13
Postal Investment Program    . . . . . . . . . . . . .                14
Project Description    ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
Institutional Reform Program    . . . . . . . . . .               14
Telecommunications Component    . . . . . . . . . .               15
Postal Component    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               15
B. Costs and Financing    . .  .  .s. .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
Program Costs    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                15
Project Costs    ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
Contingencies    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                17
Financing of Telecommunications and
Postal Investment Programs    . . . . . . . . . . .               17
Project Financing    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                18
C. Procurewant and Implementation   . . . . . . . . . .                  19
Procurement    ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
Disbursement   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  20
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 21
Performance Monitoring  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 22
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .22
Past Performance .22
Present Position .23
Projected Financial Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . .                24
DGT/SEMT    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  24
DGP/RP   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  26
Projected Financing Plan    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                28
DGT/SEMT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 28
DGP/RP   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  29
Tariffs   .  .  .    .    .  .    .  .    .  .  .  .    .    .    .  .  .    .    .  .    .  .    .    .  29
DGP/RP  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  29
DGT/SEMT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 30
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .30
Return on Investment    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                30
Benefits    ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  31
Fiscal Impact  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  31
Least Cost Solution  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  32
Risks   ....  .       .  .    i .  .  .          .                       32
Environmental and Health Effects .  . . . .  . . . . . .                 32
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    . . . . . . . . .                 33
Condition of Negotiations   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                33
Agreements Reached During Negotiations    . . . . . . . .                33
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness    . . . . . . . . . .                34
Conditions of Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 34
Recommendation    ....................                                   34



Page No.
TEXT TABLES:
4.1   Project Cost Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        16
4.2   Telecommunications Financing Plan   . . . . . . . . . . .        17
4.3   Financing Plan - Postal Services  . . . . . . . . . . . .        17
4.4   Project Financing Plan  ... .  .     .  .  .  .    ......  .   .  18
4.5   Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        19
4.6   Disbursement of IDA Credit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
5.1   Key Indicators of DGT Past Financial Performance  . . . .        22
5.2   DGT Balance Sheet   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        23
5.3   DGP Balance Sheet .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       24
5.4   Key Indicators of DGT/SEMT
Projected Financial Performance   . . . . . . . . . . .        25
5.5   Key Indicators of DGP Projected Financial Performance            26
5.6   Percentage Contribution to Revenues
by Category for Postal Services   . . . . . . . . . . .        27
5.7   Weight by Category of Percentage Increases by Charges            27
5.8   Projected DGT/SEMT Financing Plan 1990-94   . . . . . . .        28
5.9   Projected DGP Financing Plan 1990-94  . . . . . . . . . .        29
ANNEXES:
1    Communications Sector Policy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        35
2    Telecommunications Services:  Basic Data  . . . . . . . .        42
3    Postal Services:  Comparative Indicators
of Postal Services in African Countries   . . . . . . .        43
4    Postal Services:  Basic Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        44
5  Terms of Reference              ..45
6    Organization Chart of MINITRANSCO   . . . . . . . . . . .        60
7    Implementation Schedule          ..61
8    Telecommunications Services:  Description of the
Telecommunications Component of the Project   . . . . .        62
9    Postal Service:  Description of the Physical
Components of the Postal Project  . . . . . . . . . . .        63
10    Telecommunications Investment Program   . . . . . . . . .        66
11    Postal Investment Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        67
12    Schedule of Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        68
13    Performance Indicators          ..69
14  Supervision Plan              ..70
15    Assumptions Used in the Financial Projections
for Telecommunications          ..71
16    Assumptions Used in the Financial Projections
for Postal Services           ..76
17    Summary of Telecommunications Tariffs   . . . . . . . . .        81
18    Return on Investment ................ .. .                       83



- i -
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
=rrower:         Republic of Rwanda.
!neficiaries:    Ministry of Transport and Communications  (MIWITRANSCO),
and following their creation: Societe d'Economie Mixte des
T4lecommunications (SEMT) and Regie des Postes (RP).
)A Credit:       SDR 8.9 million ($12.8 million equivalent).
?rms:            Standard IDA.
ilending Terms:  The Government of Rwanda (GOR) will onlend the Credit
proceeds to SEMT and RP, at a 7.72Z interest rate for a
period of 15 years (including a 5-year grace period)
for SEMT, and at a 4Z interest rate for a period of 20
years (including a 5-year grace period) for Pl.
-o1ect
3jectives:       The objectives of the project are to promote efficient
communications in support of economic growth through a
series of actions designed to: (a) assist GOR in institu-
tional reform aimed at creating autonomous commercially
oriented operating entities for both the telecommunications
and postal sectors, paving the way for private sector
participation; (b) support the implementation of a sensible
investment program in these sectors; (c) maintain quality
and improve efficiency of telecommunications services; and
(d) ensure adequate coverage and service improvement of
the postal sector.  The project will also further public
enterprise sector reform by providing a concrete example
of how to ensure the appropriate operating autonomy of two
of the largest public entities.
ro1ect
ascription:      The project has two major components:  institutional reform
and training, leading to autonomy in the postal sector and
eventual privatization of telecommunications operations;
and an investment program to improve the Posts and Telecom-
munications  services.    The IDA Credit  proceeds  would
support:    (a)  technical  assistance  to  implement  the
institutional reform by, inter alia, setting up an
appropriate legal framework and putting in place commercial
management capabilities for the sectors ($2.3 million); (b)
training   for  posts   and   telecommunications   staff,
rehabilitation of the training center and scholarships
($2.5 million); (c) complementary items of the telecom-
munications investment program, to secure the lonig distance
network, create public telephones and improve maintenance
($4.8 million); and (d) the postal sector investment
prog     consisting of construction of a mail  sorting



- ii -
center, and extension of retail and of rural delivery
services ($3.2 million). GOR will onlend the IDA Credit
to the executing agencies which will bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Benefits
and Risks:          Both  investment programs  supported by  the project  are
expected to yield substantial benefits and high economic
rates of return. IDA involvement in assisting both sectors
to establish their long term investment program should
help ensure efficient sector development and sector
profitability. Improved sector management will result from
the creation of autonomous communications entities. The
overall business environment will be enhanced, specifically
boosting sectors dependent on information exchange such as
banks, export oriented companies and services. The risk
of delays in putting in place the independent entities is
mitigated by strong Government commitment expressed through
a Statement of Sector Policy and by timely preparation for
their creation.
Estimated Costs: a/
Local  Foreign  Total     Local  Forsisn  Total   X of Total
1. TELECOLJUNICATIONS
Institutional Reform      13     194     207       0.1     1.5     1.8        10
Maintenance equipmnt       -     110     110        -      0.9     0.9         6
Public call stations       6     173     179       0.1     1.4     1.5         9
Microwave links           18     162     200       0.2     1.6     1.6         9
Vehicles                   -      42      42        -      0.3    0.8          2
Training                         206     205        -      i'8     1.8        11
Sub-total             W7    9        i -ii             T 8  74  7
Physical contingencieo     2      40      42       0.0     0.3     0.8         2
Price contingencies       22     109     181       0.8     0.8     1.1         7
Sub-total              4                        -149  173   O-B  1  1. 4   9
TOTAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS    61    1055    l116     0.6     8.6     9.1        56
II. POSTAL SERVICES
Institutional Reform              95      96        -      0.8     0.8         5
Postal sorting center     80     205     286       0.6     1.7     2.8        14
Construction rehabilitation
of post offices         88      79     115       0.8     0.8     1.1         6
Equipmnt                   -     126     125        -      1.0     1.0         6
Vehicles                   -      22      22        -      0.2     0.2         1
Training                  18      50      68       0.1     0.4     0.5 6
Ing6nioure conseil         -      20      20        -      0.2     0.2         1
Sub-total            5,B2    696     728       1. 0    5.1     6.1       -i
Physical contingencies    18      44      57       0.8     0.8     0.6         4
Prieo contingencles       68     a6      l18       0.6     0.4     0.9         5
Sub-total           -W       10     -88        0 8     67    -iC          --§
TOTAL POSTAL SERVICES    211     705     916       1.8     6.8     7.6        46
TOTAL PROJECT COST    ,   272    1760    2082      2.4    14.8    16.7       100
!j  Exchange rates ar welghted averagoe of rates befor, and after devaluation (November 10,
1990).



- iii -
Financing Eources: !/
Local  For-.  n  Totol     Local  For-tgn  Total   X of Total
^--RF--- 1ion------        … - -     Fiin--n…-
IDA                   44    1626    1670         0.4    12.4    12.8         77
FAC                    -       80      80         -      0.6      0.6         a
DOT/SEMT              42        -      42        0.4      -       0.4         2
DOP/RP               186      154     840        1.6     l.a      2.9        16
TOTAL             272    1760    2032         2.4    14.8    16.7         100
pj  Exchongo  rates  are  wolghted  averages  of  rates  beform  and  after  devoluntton
(November 10, 1990).
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94       FY95
----------$ Million Equivalent--------
Annual                        0.5        2.8      5.5        3.0        1.0
Cumulative                    0.5        3.3      8.8       11.8       12.8
Economic Rate of Return: 25?
jLa:  IBRD No. 22708



REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Rwanda (GOR) has requested IDA assistance for
the development of the country's postal and telecommunications sectors, in
support of an improved business environment.   The main project objectives
are focussed on reforming the sector's regulatory and financial framework;
restructuring the operating agencies (i.e., the telecommunications and the
postal agencies) to function as commercial entities with administrative and
financial autonomy; improving their operating efficiency and profitability
to reduce costs and maximize resource generation; opening the telecommuni-
cations sector to private sector participation; upgrading their technical,
operational and managerial capabilities; as well as improving and expanding
telecommunications and postal services. It will be the second IDA lending
operation in the telecommunications sector in Rwanda, and the first in the
postal sector.
1.02      Studies and preparation for the reform of the communications
sector, as well as preparation for postal investment have been carried out
by consultants financed by the Study Fund (Credit 1217-RW).  Preparation of
the legal framework for the reform is now completed and is being reviewed by
the concerned authorities.  A preappraisal mission took place in November
1988 and the appraisal mission visited Rwanda in February 1989.  However,
before proceeding further, an extensive dialoguc or. the overall sector
investment program and on a clear definition of the Government's role in the
sector was required. This was concluded during a post-appraisal mission in
August 1990, with an agreement on a Statement of Communications Sector
Policy, which limits the role of the Government to overall regulation and
provides for commercially operated entities and envisages private sector
participation (Annex 1).
Economic Context
1.03      Rwanda is a small,  landlocked,  and densely populated country
covering 26,000 square kilometers in Central Africa. Its economy is highly
dependent on coffee exports, which in 1988 accounted for 80 percent of the
total.   In the 1970s, Rwanda experienced high rates of economic growth
(5 percent on average) in the context of broad financial stability and low
inflation. Prudent economic management enabled the country to achieve budget
surpluses, a relatively high level of external reserves, and a low debt
service ratio.   Throughout this period, Government economic policy was
generally non-interventionist.   Beginning in the early 1980s, the economy
started to show signs of financial stress, brought about by unfavorable
evolution of the terms of trade and increased public expenditure.   The
combination of these two factors led to a significant deterioration in public
finances, while the external current account recorded large deficits.



1.04      Since  987,  in addition to precipitous declines in world coffee
prices, Rwanda has been faced with unfavorable climatic conditions.  Real
GDP stagnated in 1987, and declined sharply in both 1988 and 1989. In the
latter year real GDP was still below the level recorded six years earlier,
resulting in a decline in private consumption per capita of 5 percent per
annum during 1983-89.   Given persisting internal and external financial
imbalances and an unfavorable medium term outlook, GOR is embarking on a
reform program aimed at reducing the existing d&Ptortions in the economy,
setting the stage for sustained and equitable economic growth, and
establishing a business climate that would allow for greater participation
of the private sector in economic activities. The Government took a major
step in this direction on November 10, 1990 with a 40 percent devaluation of
the Rwandese Franc (in foreign currency terms), and significant increases in
interest rates and petroleum prices.  In parallel, GOR has already started
addressing long-term structural issues such as the high population growth
rate, human resource dev'lopment, agricultural land scarcity and environment
deterioration.
1.05      In addressing the underlying structural problems of the economy,
GOR is stressing improvements in public sector management. As part of this
reform package, GOR is receiving Bank assistance to reform the Public
Enterprise (PE) sector (Cr. 2113-RW) with the objective of reducing the
burden on Government finances and administrative capacity and of developing
a streamlined and efficient public sector that will give a new impetus to the
private sector.  The underlying GOR strategy is one of disengagement from
industrial  and  commercial  activities  whenever  possible.    The  project
described in this report is expacted to make a significant contribution
towards the achievement of these objectives by focussing on the commercia-
lization of the posts and telecommunications sectors, which is a necessary
step before introducing private partnership.  As a result, the project will
help relieve the burden that sector management places on GOR's administrative
structure and lay the foundations for private sector participation.
II. THE COMMUNICATIONS SECTORS
2.01      Regulation and policy making authority for public telecommuni-
cations and postal services is vested in the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MINITRANSCO).   In addition to thk-z  Government functions,
MINITRANSCO also operates domestic and international telecommunications
services as well as postal services and some limited financial services
through two of its administrative departments:   the Directorate General
of Telecommunications (DGT) and the Directorate General of Posts (DGP).
MINITRANSCO has the monopoly of public telecommunications services:
telephone, telex, telegraph, data transmission and transmission of television
programs.   MIN!7RANSCO also has the monopoly for basic mail services but
faces some .ompetition in specific postal and in all financial services.
Indeed private messengers deliver mail within the country (mainly in Kigali
which represents 70 percent of mail traffic)  and private couriers  (DHL
express mail) provide international express mail.   Likewise, the postal



- 3 -
financial services compete against a well developed banking sector with
numerous branches in provincial towns and rural areas. All equipment and
materials required for telecommunications facilities are imported.
Access to Telecommunications
2.02      As  of December  31,  1989,  there were  13  automatic  telephone
exchanges in Rwanda with an installed capacity of 12,968 telephone exchange
lines and 9,213 connected subscriber lines or direct exchange lines (DEL's).
The country's telephone density is 0.1i DEL's per 10) population, among the
lowest in the world. This density is lower than in Uganda (0.18), Tanzania
and Sudan (0.20), considerably lower than in Kenya (0.60) and about one-
third the average for Sub-Saharan Africa (0.30). Moreover, the service is
mostly concentrated in the capital city of Kigali and in 11 other provincial
towns, with 57 percent of DELs in Kigali.   A few public telephones are
installed in some post offices, but most of Rwanda's population have no, or
little, access to t2lephone service. There is one 200-line telex exchange
in Kigali with 145 connected telex subscribers. Telegrams are accepted and
received in post offices, and transmitted using telex or telephone. Public
telex and facsimile is only available in the main post office at Kigali.
Use and Quality of Telecommunications Services
2.03      In Rwanda about 65 percent of the DEL's are connected to business
and government subscribers.  Most of the former are in the communications
intensive sectors of the economy, mainly wholesale, retail trade and industry
(30 percent), and public enterprises (12 percent) while Government
administration accounts for 23 percent of the DELs.  Thanks to tho recent
modernization of the telecommunications networks in Rwanda, the quality of
service is not far below the one experienced in developed countries.  The
fault rate per DEL per year, which dropped from 2.0 in 1980 to an average of
0.4 at the end of 1989 is satisfactory and compares to rates between 0.25 and
0.5 in developed countries. The percentage of faults cleared in 48 hours is
32 percent in Kigali. It is still well below DGT's objective of 80 percent
(attained in developed countries) but is well above the achievements of other
telecommunications entities across Sub-Saharan Africa.
2.04      On average, call completion rates are 50 percent in Kigali and 65
percent in provinces for local telephone service and 60 percent for domestic
subscriber trunk dialling (STD) service.   This is also comparable to the
standard average call completion rates, which in Europe are between 65
percent and 70 percent for local and 55 percent and 65 percent for STD
service. The current good service quality is mainly due to the fact that
most of the  equipment is new.  In order to sustain and even improve the
present level of quality, DGT's maintenance capabilities will be strengthened
(para. 3.09). Call completion rates for international subscriber dialling
(ISD) with neighboring countries average 14 percent, which is poor; and with
overseas, between 26 percent and 29 percent, which is less than satisfactory.
Improvement of the low service quality of ISD, particularly during peak hours
is being addressed under DGT's 1989-94 investment program (para. 4.02).



Existing Telecommunications Facilities
2.05      All telephone subscribers in Rwanda are connected to automatic
exchanges, which provide access to STD and ISD.  All 13 local te.-Aephone
exchanges, the national and internetional switching centers as well as the
telex exchange are of recent electronic digital technology. The whole long
distance  transmission  network  consists  of microwave  links.    With  the
exception of 2 microwave routes of analog technology, most of the microwave
transmission network installed under the first commur.:cations project
(Cr. 1217-RW) is of digital technology.   Rwanda is linked to the outside
world through two INTELSAT satellite earth stations, and to the neighboring
countries of Burundi and Uganda through VHF radio links.  The terrestrial
links  over  the  borders  are  of  insufficient  capacity.    Expansion  of
transmission links with neighboring countries is a priority for a landlocked
country such as Rwanda and is also being addressed under DGT's 1989-94
investment program (para. 4.02).
Demand for Telecommunications Services
2.06      As of end of 1989, with about 9,200 DELs in operation, the waiting
list for telephone service amounted to about 3,000 registered applicants,
indicating that only 75 percent of the expressed demand was satisfied. In
tht Kigali zone, with about 5,300 DELs and 2,100 applicants, the satisfaction
rate was 72 percent.   These figures, however, underestimate the potential
demand to the extent that reliable  ,ervice in Rwanda is recent and its
availability limited to the capital and major provincial towns, with large
rural areas without service at all. Considering the extremely low telephone
density (para.2.02), further demand is expected to emerge when the public
perception of availability of service increases. This assumption has been
confirmed by the fact that, on average, telephone demand has grown by 35
percent in two years since the commissioning of the new facilities under the
previous project toward the end of 1987.   In the absence of reliable
historical data on a longer period, but based or. this recent experience, a
15 percent growth per year has been assumed as a basis for the 1989-94
investment program. This assumption is in line with the growth experienced
in other countries of Sub-Saharan Africa at their early stage of
telecommunications development.
Access to Postal Services
2.07      As of December 31, 1989, there were only 26 post offices and 3
stations in Rwanda.   The country's postal density of one post office per
218,000 inhabitants, is among the lowest in the world. Annex 3 shows some
comparisons with other Sub-Saharan countries, illustrated by Tanzania at one
per 31,000 or Benin at one per 68,000. Postal activity is concentrated in
the main post office of Kigali which accounts for 75 percent of national
revenues and which is used for retail services, as national sorting center
(see para.  2.10) and as the headquarters for MINITRANSCO.   Despite DGP
efforts to develop rural postal agencies through licenses to community
representatives (e.g., mayor, priest, teacher), some areas still have
virtually no access to postal services.  Conmunities of 50,000 to 100,000
people have their closest post office more than 30 miles away. Similarly,
in Kigali where extensive new urban developments are spreading, new accesses



- 5 -
to postal services are required by customers: new postal stations for retail
services, specialized teller for financial services, door to door mail
collection and delivery for major customers.   Today, mail is delivered
exclusively through post office (PO) boxes with only 5,800 boxes available
nationwide.  As mail posting boxes are located just in the post offices,
there are only 29 collecting points in Rwanda.
Use and Quality of Postal Services
2.08      About 5.7 million pieces of mail per year have been processed
in Rwanda in recent years, including 2.2 million to or from international
destinations. The traffic matrix (Annex 4) shows the importance of Kigali
where five major customers account for 15 percent of postage revenues.
On a nationwide basis the average mail traffic per inhabitant is of one item
per year which is low and about average for most Sub-Saharan countries.
However, the annual traffic growth rate has been 5 percent over the last
decade, and there is still potential for additional growth in business mail,
international mail and new services, e.g., express mail, public fax service.
2.09      Postal checking accounts  (CCP) are the only postal  financial
service offered.  There are only 3,500 CCP accounts nationwide, and their
level of activity is low with less than 1,300 operations per month.
Following GOR's decision to pay civil servants' salaries through checking
accounts, the number of postal checking accounts has recently increased.
However, these new accounts show little, if any, average monthly positive
balance since most of the salaries are withdrawn the day they are credited.
Further studies to assess the competitive position of the postal financial
services need to take place in order to determine what should be the strategy
regarding these services (see para. 3.04).
2.10      DGP does not monitor mail delivery delays.  Reasonable quality of
service, such as same day delivery in Kigali and next day delivery in major
cities, is irregularly achieved due to several bottlenecks in the sorting
center (lack of storage and low productivity) and weaknesses in management
of operations (Annex 4). Due to long lines, waiting time in Kigali's main
post office can exceed 1 hour especially the day civil servants are paid and
withdraw their salary (Annex 4). Also, because of the shortage of PO boxes,
people tend to share the existing ones which causes mail losses, wrong
deliveries and hence an overall poor quality of service.
Existing Postal Facilities
2.11      Most postal facilities are over 25 years of age.   Some are in
critical condition (CYANGUGU, RWAMAGANA) and are about to collapse, others
are temporarily housed by local administrations. The national sorting center
located in the main post office of Kigali processes all national and
international incoming and outgoing mail in less than 300 square meters.
With a storage capacity of less than 100 bags, the center receives an average
of 150 bags per day with peaks of 500 bags per day.   The total sorting
capacity with the current productivity does not exceed 100 bags per day which
results in frequent storage overflow. No handling and sorting equipment are
available in the center, which explains to a certain extent the low
productivity.   Another critical issue is the lack of sorting space which



renders impossible the sorting segmentation corresponding to different types
of mail flows:   e.g., express mail, priority mail, packages, etc.   The
network of inland transportation is fully sub-contracted to the national bus
company ONATRACOM with reasonable reliability. However coverage of territory
is insufficient to develop postal facilities according to customers needs
(see para. 2.07). In addition, the fleet operating the door to door express
mail deliveries is small (two vehicles) and the traffic is already exceeding
3,000 pieces of mail per month.
Demand for Postal Services
2.12      The waiting list for PO boxes amounts to about 3,000 applicants.
Potential demand is probably higher since customers have been discouraged
by the lack of new boxes. In addition, the important effort undertaken by
GOR to develop literacy plus the increasing traffic of business mail is
generating new demands specifically concerning:   (a) public postal boxes
outside post offices (e.g., in ONATRACOM buses to minimize the cost of
collection); and (b) the development of new forms of delivery (door to door)
for large volume of mail or express services.
Sector Strategy and Goals
2.13      In  accordance with  national  socio-economic  objectives,  GOR's
declared objectives for the communications sector are to:
(a) restructure the communications sector in defining and separating
the policy and regulatory functions, which would remain those of
the GOR, from the provision of services to the public and operation
of the post and telecommunications facilities;
(b) restructure the operating agencies into commercially-oriented
entities with appropriate financial and administrative autonomy,
develo? their managerial capabilities and improve their financial
and operating performance, with emphasis on human resources
development and training; and
(c) expand coverage and enhance quality and reliability of postal and
telecommunications services to meet a growing demand, foster
decentralization, encourage rural development and improve the
communications with the rest of the world.
2.14      A number of actions have already been taken to meet these goals.
At the end of 1987, GOR decided to create a "Societe d'Economie Mixte des
Telecommunications" (SEMT) and a "Regie des Postes" (RP).  A study of the
required institutional reforms was subsequently undertaken by consultants who
submitted their reports to GOR by end of 1988. The reports cover four major
areas of the institutional reform: (i) the legal framework; (ii) management
and organization; (iii) finance; (iv) human resources.  In each area, the
present situation is reviewed, issues are highlighted, and recommended
changes are outlined. With these reports GOR now has a comprehensive view
of the required institutional reform and of the various decisions it must
take in order to implement these reforms.   Specific proposals for the
implementation of these reforms are being reviewed and the detailed



scheduling of the various stages of the reform is being developed. Through
the operation described in this report, IDA is being associated to that
process to help GOR ensure that the reform is in line with its broader
development objectives and its PE reform strategy.
2.15      As a condition of negotiations of the proposed IDA Credit, GOR,
at the level of an interministerial committee, discussed and approved the
Statement of Communications Sector Policy given in Annex 1. First, the
Statement recalls the major goals to be achieved through the reform, which
are to relieve GOR's administration from the burden of managing a sector
of commercial and industrial nature as well as to relieve the sector's
operations and development of GOR's budgetary constraints. The objectives
of granting such an administrative and financial autonomy are to improve and
maintain the level of communications services to the public; enhance
operating efficiency and profitability; and create the necessary conditions
for opening up the telecommunications sector to private sector participation.
Second, the Statement reiterates GOR's decision to establish two separate
autonomous entities: SEMT and RP, and separates the responsibilities of
sectoral policy-making and regulation, which remain GOR's domain, from those
of service provision and management of sector resources, which will become
the domain of the two operating entities. Third, the document establishes
the principles leading to the restructuring of the communications sector in
Rwanda; theses points are discussed in Chapter III of this report.
Sector Constraints
2.16      The  recent  rapid  telecommunications  network  modernization
(paras. 2.03 to 2.05) has not been paralleled by a comparable program for
improving sector policies and for upgrading DGT's organization, manpower
skills and management systems. DGT is constrained by GOR's administrative
and financial procedures and lacks the autonomy to function as an efficient
commercial entity (para. 3.01).  Because of this lack of autonomy and the
resulting budgetary constraints imposed across the board to all Government
services, DGT cannot hire, train and sufficiently motivate the staff required
to operate the telecommunications network and finance all other operational
expenditure requirements. Consequently, investment planning, project design,
management, and even supervision, have been performed by outside consultants
mostly financed by bilateral grants. In the postal sector, the situation is
much the same, aggravated by a lack of investment for the past 25 years.
2.17      Given the planned major expansion of Rwanda's postal and telecom-
munications facilities, major sector reforms and considerable strengthening
of both DGT and DGP management capabilities are needed to enable sustained
and more efficient operations and development. Three main areas of concern
stand out  in accordance with GOR's objectives  (para. 2.13):    (a) the
structure of the sector, (b) DGT and DGP requirements for financial and
administrative autonomy and (c) DGT's and DGP's organizational structure and
management systems.   These areas have been thoroughly analyzed with the
Government during project preparation and will be addressed during project
implementation in the framework of the Statement of Communications Sector
Policy (Annex 1).



-8-
IDA Strategy
2.18      Given Rwanda's overall prudent economic management and, until
recently, satisfactory growth record, !')A has followed a strategy which
emphasized project lending in: (i) infrastructure to reduce the country's
isolation and to provide incentives for further intensification of
agriculture; (ii) promotion of small and medium size enterprises in manufac-
turing and other sectors; and (iii) development of human resources. Recently
the dialogue with GOR has focussed on an improved macroeconomic framework and
incentives structure as well as on public enterprise reform, since efficient
use of resources by the PE sector is a key element for balancing public
finances and promoting growth. The objective of PE reform is to reduce the
burden on GOR budget and administration while developing a more efficient PE
sector through restructuring some public enterprises or divestiture of others
which can be privatized.
2.19      IDA has been associated with MINITRANSCO  since  1978 for the
developme.it of the telecommunications in Rwanda. In July 1980, IDA approved
a $7.5 million Credit (1057-RW) to finance a Telecommunications Project.
This project was satisfactorily completed by the end of 1987, a Project
Completion Report has been prepared, reviewed by t:e Operations Evaluation
Department and distributed to the Executive Directors on October 11, 1990
(Report No. 9012). While the first project achieved its physical objectives
and contributed to the modernization of the Rwandese telecommunications
network, the targets for institutional development were not reached, in spite
of IDA insistence. However, during the last two years of project implemen-
tation, GOR recognized the merits of IDA's prodding on the institutional and
financial aspects and the decision was taken in 1987 to prepare and proceed
with the sector reform.
Project Focus
2.20      The proposed project is expected to make a significant contribution
towards the continuation and the successful implementation of the above
strategy. IDA's involvement is regarded as essential by GOR in helping focus
attention on the important elements of the sector reform and in coordinating
donor assistance.  The project aims at maximizing the contribution of the
communications sector to the country's economic development strategy.
Specifically, the sector's operating efficiency and profitability will be
improved and mobilization of domestic resources will be enhanced. The project
is also aimed at maintaining the present good quality of telecommunications
services through an improved and better equipped maintenance and customer
service organization and to expand the postal processing capacity as well as
the national coverage of the postal distribution network.
III. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
Sector Commercialization
3.01      The current operating entities in the communications sector are
part of the administration and as such they are constrained by public
administrative and financial regulations and procedures. In addition, the



- 9 -
spread of various responsibilities throughout the Government (Ministry of
Planning for capital expenditures, Ministry of Finances for operating
expenditures, Ministry of Civil Service for personnel matters, Ministry of
Public Works for buildings, etc.) hinders coherent sector development and is
detrimental to efficiency. The Government recognizes the urgency for reforms
to optimize the sector's overall policy and institutional framework.  The
objectives are to increase the efficiency and productivity of both telecommu-
nications and postal services, and enhance the sector's contribution to the
economy as a whole. Establishment of commercially-operated entities is GOR's
strategy (para. 2.13) leading to an eventual private partnership with the
telecommunications  operating company.    In a first stage,  this  implies
restructuring DGT into a fully autonomous, initially Government-owned company
operating under private law: the "Societe d'Economie Mixte des Telecommuni-
cations" (SEMT).   DGP will be restructured into a financially autonomous
`Regie des Postes" (RP), with a separate legal status and limited
administrative autonomy.
3.02      The first step towards separating the regulating and operating
functions of the communications sector will require adjustment in GOR policy
making mechanisms.  Firstly, a regulatory body needs to be created within
GOR. Given the scarcity of technical resources, its duties initially will
be mainly administrative, SEMT assuming under contract the technical
regulating duties such as frequency spectrum management.   Secondly, GOR's
rights as the sector regulating power must be clearly separated from its
rights as the owner of the operating entities. Thirdly, GOR must acknowledge
its obligations as one of the major users of telecommunications services.
The same applies for postal services of which GOR is the largest user and for
which legislation was recently enacted to suppress GOR's right to free use
of postal services (para. 5.06). Public utilities budget must be realistic
to enable GOR's departments to pay for their telecommunications consumption
fully and on time.   The respective duties of both GOR and each of the
operating entities will be defined within the framework of a performance
contract to be established between GOR and each operating entity for a period
of three years. Each contract will specify sector development objectives,
service quality objectives, financial objectives, tariffs objectives and
GOR's obligations as a user of services. Each contract will also establish
the delicate balance between the social objectives of the public service and
the profitability requirements.  Further details regarding these contracts
are given in the Statement of Communications Sector Policy (para. 2.15 and
Annex 1).
3.03      The prospect of introducing private partnership within the proposed
telecommunications entity raises some issues to be resolved before privatiza-
tion effectively takes place. The consultants hired under the project (TOR:
Annex 5) will prepare recommendations to be reviewed by GOR in association
with IDA regarding: (a) GOR's regulatory role of the sector; (b) the extent
to which a monopoly will be retained, particularly for new services; (c) the
extent to which some functions presently performed within the sector will be
subcontracted to private entrepreneurr (subscriber installations, printing
of telephone directories, etc.); (d) the way sector resources will be
transferred from the company to the GOR (corporate taxes, custom duties,
sales taxes, etc.) and it was be agreed, at negotiations, that a plan of
action for GOR would be prepared by consultants, before June 30, 1992, as a



- 10 -
result of a resource mobilization study (para. 4.04); and (e) tariff policy
and mechanisms for tariff reviews and level of competence of the company in
establishing tariffs for services other than basic services (POTS).
3.04      Financial services and mail services  are DGP's two lines of
activity.  The changing environment and the evolution of customers' needs
have significantly decreased the role of DGP's financial services.
Commercial banks have extensively developed their networks and DGP, because
of its cumbersome administrative procedures and lack of a diversified
financial product line (it only offers checking accounts) has badly suffered
from this competition. The postal financial services have been a major money
losing activity for DGP.   Consultants working under the project will
recommend new service objectives for RP and clarify its profit making
obligations.  As part of this process, the role and the future of postal
financial services in GOR's social and financial policies will be reviewed
and specified. DGP's mail services should also be operated on a commercial
basis.  The issue here is also deregulation.   The consultants hired under
the project will recommend to what extent RP will retain the current postal
monopoly over all categories of mail with licenses granted to private
couriers in exchange of a royalty payment, and will define which postal
activity will be further deregulated.
Organization and Management
3.05      MINITRANSCO's organization chart is given in Annex 6. The existing
structure reflects an administrative organization with no authority over its
financial resources, no integrated planning, no human resource strategy, and
no marketing function. The two new sector operating entities will have to
integrate all those functions. Given the sector's development stage and the
small size of the country, those functions will be concentrated at SEMT's and
RP's headquarters in Kigali.   The implementation of those functions will
follow three basic steps:  (1) recruiting competent managers for each new
function; (2) implementation of an adequate framework to carry out the
function (e.g., accounting plan, technical and financial indicators,
personnel statute, etc.); (3) training and technical assistance to run and
to integrate each new function within the organization.
3.06      Concurrently,  GOR will take action to grant to the two new
operating eaitities the appropriate legal, administrative and financial
autonomy.   As defined in the Statement of Communications Sector Policy
(para. 2.15 and Annex 1), a telecommunications company governed by private
law will be created, in a first phase fully owned by GOR. In a second phase,
private partnership will be invited.   As such, the new company will be
organized under a Board of Directors where shareholders and main users would
be represented and which would have full authority over the management of the
company.   Initially, GOR as the only shareholder will nominate the Board
members. Supervision of daily operations would be delegated to a Chief
Executive Officer who would report directly to the Board. The legal frame-
work required by this structure has been studied and drafted by the
consultants during the preparation of the project. For the postal sector,
RP will have an independent structure with its own legal framework, full
financial autonomy, but some limited administrative autonomy.  It will be
headed by a Directorate General directly responsible to the Board of



- 11 -
Directors representing the interests of the State and of the users. However,
given the usually low profitability of the Postal sector, there is no
prospect of privatization, and the State being the exclusive owner, GOR will
appoint all Board members.
3.07      The appropriate legal framework for the creation of SEMT and the
RP is being reviewed by the relevant authorities of the GOR, to be approved
by the Cabinet by March 1991 and presented to Parliament by December 1991.
Both entities would be created by June 30,  1992 at the latest.   The
implementation schedule for the sector reform is given at Annex 7.
Planning and Operations Management
3.08      In the past, most sector development projects have been initiated
through a combination of donors' interest, grant availability and sector
needs.  Hence a coordinated approach to sector development and investment
planning is lacking. The increased autonomy of SEMT and RP will require them
to strengthen their in-house planning capabilities so as to define sector
development plans that are consistent with development objectives and sector
resources. In this respect, the Development Credit Agreement specifies that
IDA shall review the sectors' development strategy and all investment plans
(paras. 5.14 and 5.16).
3.09      In the past four years the telecommunications network has been
entirely rebuilt with state-of-the-art equipment. In order to maintain the
resulting high quality services, SEMT will have to dedicate some of its
resources to customer service and equipment maintenance.   Such needs have
not been properly satisfied in the past due to budgetary constraints
affecting the whole GOR administration.   If such a situation persists, it
would lead to the progressive deterioration of the recently commissioned
modern facilities. To avoid such an occurrence, the project supports a major
overhaul of the maintenance organization with the build up of a capable in-
house maintenance staff, improved inventory management and the introduction
of a customer service department to increase sensitivity and responsiveness
to customers (para. 4.04).
Staff and Training
3.10      As of December 31, 1989 DGT had 488 employees and DGP 350, all
of whom are public servants.   For the telecommunications sector, this is
equivalent to about 48 staff per 1000 DELs.   Since personnel from other
Ministries who are working on the sector have not been taken into account,
this ratio is underestimated.  With such a ratio, over 50, DGT has a low
staff productivity. DGT has an oversized staff in the lower categories, but
lack of managers, mainly in middle management, and skilled personnel such as
engineers, technicians and accountants.  As a result, although oversized,
personnel accounts only for approximately 15 percent of total operating
expenditures, which is low. Since staff is underpaid, DGT has difficulties
in retaining skilled personnel (e.g., accountants, attracted by the private
sector) and thus expensive training resources are being wasted for the
sector.  The new telecommunications company should provide an environment
in which salaries would be competitive with the private sector and the
subsequent increase in operating costs compensated by better productivity and



- 12 -
more efficient operations. The telecommunications training prograw, the need
for additional training facilities as well as the volume of student weeks
required to upgrade the level of various skill levels has been the subject
of a consultant study financed by FAC during the project preparation.
Implementation of this major training component is included in the project
(para. 4.04).
3.11      Annex 3 shows comparative staffing figures for some African Posts.
DGP's staff productivity is one of the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. It is
mainly due to the small size of Rwanda's postal network, heavily concentrated
in Kigali, with little delivery activity. Administrative functions occupy
22 percent of total staff which is high and due to heavy bureaucratic
procedures.   Postal management is seriously understaffed with only four
positions authorized by GOR.   The creation of RP should correct these
shortcomings  by  enabling   independent  and  adequate   recruiting  and
significantly reducing the relative importance of purely administrative
functions, compared to operation and management functions.
Training Facilities
3.12      MINITRANSCO has created a small national training center for both
posts and telecommunications for the basic training needs of entry level
staff.   Higher level staff are sent for training in specialized schools,
mostly in other African countries and France.  The current curriculum has
provided adequate basic technical training but does not include any
management  courses.      Consultants  have  prepared  a  more  appropriate
telecommunications training program (para. 3.10) that should produce better
results at all staff levels. In parallel, DGP has prepared a rehabilitation
component for the national training center. The financing of this component
has been included in the proposed project (para. 4.04).
Accounting and Financial Management
3.13      Both DGT and DGP operate on a zero-base cash budget, as other
Government agencies.  Operating and investment expenditures are authorized
annually through the Government's budget law. Funds generated from postal
and telecommunications services are collected directly by the Ministry of
Finance and expenditures are paid directly by the relevant Ministry (Planning
for capital investments, Public Service for payroll, etc.). As a consequence
commercial accounts cannot be prepared regularly. They are published after
a lengthy reconstruction process involving many Ministries, taking over a
year and resulting in inaccurate and non certifiable accounts.
3.14      Because  a proper  finance  department  is a  requisite  for the
institutional reform process of both entities, such a department has recently
been created in both DGT and DGP. The persons in charge of these departments
will be working with consultants to implement adequate finance functions:
treasury, accounting, budget. DGP has never published commercial accounts.
DGT, although required to do so under the first IDA telecommunications
project, has had great difficulties in producing accounts with less than a
year of delay. Accounting and budgeting functions will be strengthened under
the project to be able to produce timely and adequate financial reports, for



- 13 -
the management of both SEMT and RP. Relevant financial indicators will have
to be published and monitored on a timely basis in order to make possible an
adequate follow-up (para. 4.18).
Auditing
3.15      DGT and DGP have no internal control mechanisms to monitor key
aspects of their operations. As part of the institutional reform plan, an
internal audit function will be implemented. In addition to controlling the
accuracy and reliability of all data being monitored by management, this unit
will be essential in improving the various reporting and management systems
of the organization.  DGT employed external auditors under the first IDA
project, but their role has been merely to attempt to establish commercial
accounts on the basis of fragmented financial information.   Such accounts
were never certified. As autonomous entities, SEMT and RP will have to make
audited financial statement available to their Board of Directors and IDA
within six months after the end of each fiscal year. It was agreed during
negotiations that the above auditing requirements will be stipulated in
SEMT's and RP's Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
IV. THE INVESTMENT PROGRAMS AND THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      MINITRANSCO's communications investment programs consist of the
1990-94 Telecommunications Investment Program and the 1990 - 1992 Postal
Investment Program.
Telecommunications Investment Program
4.02      MINITRANSCO's 1990-94 Telecommunications Investment Program is the
continuation of the modernization and expansion of the telecommunications
infrastructure of Rwanda undertaken under the First Telecommunications
Project with a parallel special emphasis on sector reform (para. 2.19).
The 2rogram, which has been reviewed and agreed to by IDA, consists of:
(a) expansion of the switching capacity in the existing telephone
exchanges and creation of new telephone exchanges in eight
provincial towns, increasing the installed capacity by about
8,000 lines (from 12,800 to 20,800) to meet the expected demand
(para. 2.06);
(b) extension of the existing local cable networks, construction of
eight new networks, and installation of a subscribers plant,
including the provision of terminal equipment to connect new
subscribers;
(c) expansion of the long distance transmission network to increase
the channel capacity on existing microwave links, and create spur
routes to link the new telephone exchanges to the national network;



- 14 -
(d) installation of 10 rural multi-access radio systems (in seven sub-
prefectures) including subscribers terminal radio equipment with
solar power to increase service penetration into remote areas
(para. 2.02);
(e)  improvement  of  the  international  telecommunici          services
(para. 2.05) with the neighboring countries of BuL t , Tanzania
and Uganda itl extending the long distance microwave network across
the borders (KBO/AfDB project) and installation of a second
INTELSAT satellite earth station; and
(f)  the  telecommunications  component  of  the  proposed  project
(para. 4.04).
Postal Investment Program
4.03      MINITRANSCO's 1990-1992 Postal Investment Program consists of the
postal component of the proposed project (para. 4.04).
Project Description
4.04      The project proposed for IDA financing, consists of:   (a) the
institutional reform program, which is fully described in Section III;
(b) key elements of the telecommunications sector investment program; and
(c) the postal investment program. The main components of the project are:
I.   Institutional Reform Program
Consultants' services for which terms of reference have been agreed
with the Government (Annex 5), are as follows:
(a) in the telecommunications sector:
(i) up to 24 man-months for financial management;
(ii) up to 13 man-months for commercial management, to include
general organization, planning, and subscriber management;
(iii) up to 8 man-months for human resource management;
(iv) up to 6 man-months for a management information system;
(v) up to 4 man-months for security management;
(b) in the postal sector:
(i) up to 16 man-months for financial management;
(ii) up to 13 man-months for commercial management, to include
development strategy, general organization, logistics;
(iii) up to 6 man-months for human resource management;



- 15 -
(c) in both sectors: up to 10 man-months for a resource mobilization
study, to include taxes, dividends, and tariffs.
II. Telecommunications Component (Annex 8)
(a) provision for measuring equipment, micro-computers, tools for
maintenance and workshops, telecommunications equipment for network
up-grading, spares and vehicles for operations and maintenance;
(b) provision for at least 300 public telephones and associated
equipment;
(c) supply and installation of digital microwave links with associated
multiplex equipment between Kirambo, Karongi, Gisenyi and Mugogo
to secure the long distance digital transmission network
implemented under the first project;
(d) implementation of a comprehensive training program for the staff
of  SEMT,   including  35  man-months   of  training   experts,
rehabilitation of the training center, training aid, laboratory
equipment, and 30 scholarships abroad.
III. Postal Component (Annex 9)
(a) Construction of a 3,000 m2 postal sorting center of modulaL design
at Kigali to replace the overcrowded and obsolete facilities and
sufficient to cope with the traffic expected by the year 2000;
(b) rehabilitation of the main post offices which generate significant
revenues and have outdated facilities of over 40 years of age;
(c) creation of eight new Post Offices (including window equipment--
scales, safes, boxes) in Cyangugu, Rwamagana, Byumba, Munini,
Ngororero, Kiyumbu, Busoro and Bugarama, towns showing real
business potential;
(d) specialized vehicles for use in postal delivery and distribution,
and for other postal operations;
(e) training program for RP, including 12 man-months of training
expert, 30 scholarships, rehabilitation of the training center and
training aids;
(f) Engineering consultants for supervision of the construction of the
sorting center.
B. Costs and Financing
Program Costs
4.05      The total costs of the telecommunications program are estimated
at $60.0 million, including a foreign exchange component of $51.1 million.
Besides the telecommunications component of the project proposed foi IDA



- 16 -
financing, the other program components are financed by EIB and AfDB,
Belgium, France, Japan and Switzerland (para. 4.09).   Annual expenditures
under the 1989-94 Telecommunications Investment Program are given in
Annex 10. On average, annual investment expenditures for telecommunications
represent about 0.25 percent of GDP, comparable to the ratio of 0.3 percent
experienced on average in sub-Saharan Afrlca.
4.06       The total costs of the postal investment program are estimated at
$7.6 million, including a foreign exchange component of $5.8 million. This
program, which is a part of the proposed project, would be financed by IDA
and the new "Regie des Postes." Details and annual expenditures under the
postal investment program/project postal component are given in Annex 11.
Project Costs
4.07       The total cost of the project is estimated at $16.7 million, with
a foreign exchange component of $14.3 million.  Project base costs reflect
MINITRANSCO's experience with contracts under the first IDA project and in
other countries in the region adjusted to December 1989 prices.   Project
costs are summarized in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: Project Cost Summary
($ million)
Local    Foreign   Total  X of Total
1. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Institutional Reform       0.1      1.6      1.8       10
Maintenance equipment       -       0.9      0.9        6
Public call stations       0.1      1.4      1.5        9
Microwave links            0.1      1.5      1.6        9
Vehicles                    -       0.3      0.3        2
Training                    -       1.8      1.8       11
Sub-total                        7.43 77  7746
Physical contingencies     0.0      0.3      0.3        2
Price contingencies        0.3      0.8      1.1        7
Sub-total               0.3      1.1      1.4       9
TOTAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS   0.6      8.6      9.1       65
II. POSTAL SERVICES
Institutional Reform         -       0.8      0.8        S
Postal sorting center       0.6      1.7      2.3       14
Construction rehabilitation
of post offices            0.3      0.8      1.1        6
Equipment                    -       1.0      1.0        6
Vehicles                     -       0.2      0.2        1
Training                    0.1      0.4      0.6        3
Ing6nieurs conseil            -      0.2      0.2        1
Sub-total               1.0      5.1     6.1       36
Physical contingencies      0.3      0.3      0.6        4
Price contingencies         0.6      0.4      0.9        6
Sub-total               0.8      0.7     1. 59
TOTAL POSTAL SERVICES       1.8      6.8      7.6       45
TOTAL PROJECT COST          2.4    14.3    16.7        100



- 17 -
Contingencies
4.08      Physical contingencies are 5 percent for consultancy services and
equipment and vehicles and 10 percent for building construction. Because of
the 40 percent devaluation of the Rwandese franc in November 1990 (para.
1.04), price contingencies for local costs are the estimated inflation rates
for the coming years: 14 percent in 1990, 28 percent in 1991, 12 percent in
1992, 5 percent in 1993, 4 percent in 1994 and onwards. Foreign costs are
estimated to increase by 4 percent per annum during the project
implementation period.
Financing of Telecommunications and Postal Investment Programs
4.09      The telecommunications Investment Program Financing Plan is given
in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: Telecommunications Financing Plan 1989-94
($ million)
Local   Foreign  Total  X of Total
IDA                 0.2     7.9      8.1      14
CCCE/FAC             -      12.6    12.6      21
EIB                  -      10.0    10.0      17
AfDB                 -      2.2      2.2       4
Belgium              -      2.7      2.7       4
Japan                -      8.5      8.6      14
Switzerland         0.6     2.7      3.2       6
DOT/SEMT            8.2     4.5    12.7       21
TOTAL         8.     61.1    6080 .00
The proposed IDA Credit would only finance 14 percent of this Program.  All
cofinancing arrangements have been secured, except for $5.8 million from the
CCCE/FAC, which is expected to be part of subsequent commitments.   No
cofinancing has been arranged for the postal investment program whose capital
expenditures would be exclusively financed by IDA and DGP/RP from internally
generated resources and a small Government subsidy (para. 4.11). Details of
the financing for the postal services component are given in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: Financing Plan - Postal Services 1990-94
($ million)
Local   Foreign   Total  X of Total
IDA                 0.2     4.6      4.7      82
DGP/RP              1.6     1.3      2.9      38
TOTAL             1.8      6.8     7.6      100



- 18 -
Proiect Financing
4.11      The proposed IDA Credit ($12.8 million) would financ  100 percent
of the foreign costs ($10.9 million) of material, consultant services
(less $0.6 million financed by FAC) and scholarships, 90 percent of local
expenditures for consultants' services and training and for postal equipment
($0.4 millia.i) and 50 percent of the total expenditure of building
construction for the postal sorting center ($1.5 million). DGT/SEMT would
provide funds for 69 percent of the local costs ($0.4 million) and DGP/RP for
100 percent of total expenditure for the construction and rehabilitation of
post offices and 50 percent of total expenditure of the postal sorting center
($2.9 million), from internally generated sources or from Government
subsidies ($0.8 million).
Table 4.4: Project Financing Plan
($ million)
Local   Foreign   Total  X of Total
t. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
IDA                    0.2     7.9      8.1       49
FAC                     -      0.6      0.6        4
DGT/SEMT               0.4      -       0.4        2
TOTAL              0.6      8.6      9.1      55
II. POSTAL SERVICES
IDA                    0.2     4.6      4.7       28
DGP/RP                 1.6     1.3      2.9       17
TOTAL              1.8      T.       :        46
TOTAL PROJECT             2.4    14.8    16.7      100
(TOTAL IDA: TWO SECTORS)   0.4    12.4    12.8     77
4.12       It was agreed at negotiations that upon the establishment of both
SEMT and RP, GOR would enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each of
the two new entities on terms and conditions which will have been approved
by IDA including, in particular: (a) the reimbursement by SEMT to GOR over
15 years including a 5-year grace period at a 7.72 percent interest rate;
(b) the possibility of a faster reimbursement of such loan by SEMT, based on
availability of funds;  (c) the reimbursement by RP to GOR over 20 years
including a 5-year grace period at a 4 percent interest rate--of all amounts
paid or to be paid by the Government to IDA on account of the Credit,
including  the portion used prior  to the  establishment  of  each entity
including the Project Preparation Facility (para. 4.17). The signing of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements would be a condition of disbursement for the bulk
of the equipment to be us.ed by the new entities (para. 4.16).



- 19 -
C. Procurement and Implementation
Procurement
4.13       Procurement arrangements are simarized in Table 4.5.
Table 4.5: Procurement Arrangements a/
(in $ million) -
PROJECT COMPONENT              ICB        LIS c/    LCB d/    OTHER */    TOTAL
1. Training A consultancy equipment         0.1 (0.1)                       0.1 (0.1)
2. Telecom equipment procured prior         0.1 (0.1)                       0.1 (0.1)
to creation of the entitioe
8. Public telephones installed   0.2 (0.2)                                  0.2 (0.2)
prior to creation of the entities
4. Telecom equipment procured after  3.6 (3.5)                   0.9 (0.5)  4.4 (4.0)
the creation of the entities
S. Postal equipment procured prior          0.1 (0.1)                       0.1 (0.1)
to creation of the entities
6. Postal equipment procured after   1.0 (1.0)  0.1 (0.1)                   1.1 (1.1)
the creation of the entities
7. Postal buildings              2.7 (1.6)            1.8 (0)               4.3 (1.8)
8. Vehicles                      0.6 (0.6)                                  0.6 (0.6)
9. Consultants and training                                      6.8 (6.0)  6.8 (5.0)
TOTAL                     8.0 (6.9)  0.4 (0.4)  1.6 (0)    6.7 (5.5) 16.7(12.8)
%                  ~~~~~~~48 (54)  2 (3)    10 (0)    40 (43)   100 (100)
a/    Costs include proportionate contingency, excluding work force and force account.
1/    IDA financing in parentheses.
c/    Limited International B dding.
a/    Local Competitive Bidding.
_/    Other includes Bank's Guidelines for the use of consultants, and proprietary items.
4.14       The procurement procedures are consistent with IDA guidelines.
International Competitive Bidding will be used for the procurement of the
postal sorting center (building and postal equipment), microwave links, coin-
boxes and vehicles for postal and telecommunications operations. Ten bidding
packages estimated to cost $100,000 or more each and totalling $6.9 million,
including contingencies, would be subject to IDA's prior review of procure-
ment  documentation.   Procurement decisions  involving amounts lower than
$100,000 would be subject to ex-post review by IDA supervision missions.
Because of the small size of the lots, whose costs would not exceed $40,000
per lot, Limited International Bidding will be used for the procurement of
miscellaneous equipment for the post offices, tools for workshops and
maintenance, measuring and test equipment, training aids, and microcomputers.
Total expenditures under LIB would not exceed $400,000 equivalent. The LIB
short list will be subject to approval by IDA in accordance with the
Guidelines. Proprietary items for spares, telecommunications equipment for



- 20 -
the workshops and the training center, estimated to cost about $500,000, will
be directly purchased from the original suppliers. Local Competitive Bidding
will be used for the procurement of civil works for the construction of the
new post offices and the rehabilitation of provincial post offices.   The
consultancy firms for the implementation of the postal and the telecommuni-
cations reform, and the consultancy firms for mobilization of resources and
tariff studies, as well as the engineering consultants for the mail sorting
center will be selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the use
of consultants.
Disbursement
4.15      Except  for  payments  against  contracts  of  less  than  $50,000
equivalent, which will be disbursed against statements of expenditures, the
proceeds of the IDA Credit of $12.8 million will be disbursed against full
standard documentation for the civil works for the postal sorting center,
supply and installations of postal and telecommunications equipment, vehicles
and consultants.  To facilitate rapid disbursements, a Special Account of
approximately $1.0 million will be established in US dollars in the Central
Bank of Rwanda and maintained under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
The $1.0 million special account represents about two months of estimated
disbursements during the peak disbursement period of 1993.   The Special
Account  would  be  used  for  disbursement  against  all  expenditures.
Applications for replenishment will be submitted on a monthly basis promptly
after reconciliation of the monthly bank statement.
4.16      Disbursement of Category 4 in Table 4.6 will be subject to the
creation of SEMT and the signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
SEMT and GOR.  Disbursement of Categories 6 and 7 will be subject to the
creation of RP and the signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between RP
and the GOR. The disbursement schedule for the project given in Annex 12.
It is estimated that, because the consultants for the institutional reform
would start working before project effectiveness and because the equipment
would be fast disbursed, the total disbursement period would be shorter than
the standard disbursement profile for IDA telecommunications projects.
Disbursements for this Credit are thus expected to be completed by June 30,
1995.



- 21 -
Table 4.6: Disbursement of IDA Credit
(in $ millions)
Postal    Telecom
Category                 Component  Component   Percentage Financed
1. Training A consultancy equipmont            0.1      100X of foreign expenditure
2. Telecom equipment procured prior            0.1      100% of foreign expenditures
to creation of the ontities
3. Public telephones installed prior           0.2      100X of foreign expenditures
to creation of the entities
4. Telecom equipment procured after            3.1      100% of foreign expenditures
the creation of SEMT
S. Postal equipment procured prior  0.1                 100% of foreign expenditures A
to creation of RP                                    90% of local expenditures
6. Postal equipment procured after  0.9                 100X of foreign expenditures A
the creation of RP                                   90% of local expenditures
7. Postal buildings                 1.3                 S0X of total expenditures
8. Vehicles                         0.2        0.3      100X of foreign expenditures
9. Consultants and training         0.8        1.7      100% of foreign expenditures A
90% of local expenditures
10. Refunding of project            0.9        0.6
preparation *dvance
Subtotal                    4.2        6.1
11. Unallocated                           2.5
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT               12.8
Project Implementation
4.17       The  institutional  reform  component  of  the  project  will  be
implemented by both DGT/SEMT and DGP/RP assisted by consultants under the
supervision of MINITRANSCO. Terms of reference of the consultants for the
institutional reform and for the tariffs and resource mobilization studies
are given in Annex 5.   The implementation schedule of the institutional
reform is given in Annex 7.  Because it is essential that the institutional
reform has progressed as much as possible before SEMT and RP are created,
the Association accepted the request from the Government for a $1.5 million
Project Preparation Facility to finance consultancy work.   Furthermore, to
ensure a timely beginning of the execution of the project and smooth
operation of the entities of post and telecommunications as soon as they are
created,  the  hiring  of  consultants  for  the  institutional  reform  is  a
condition of effectiveness of the Credit.  The telecommunications equipment
component of the project will be implemented by SEMT with the assistance of
contractors for the supply and installation of microwave links and coin-
boxes and in the framework of the National Maintenance Plan prepared by
ITU/UNDP. The construction and installation of the mail sorting center and
the rehabilitation of provincial post offices will be carried out by
contractors under the supervision of RP and its consultants.



- 22 -
Performance Monitoring
4.18      The overall performance of DGT/SEMT and DGP/RP during project
implementation will be monitored against performance indicators (Annex 13)
for  telecommunications  and  for  postal  services.    Monitoring  of  these
indicators will assist both entities in upgrading their management and will
allow timely corrective actions to be taken. Targets for 1992 were set and
agreed during negotiations at desirable and feasible levels; the targets for
1993, 1994 and 1995 are indicative and will be reviewed and established
jointly by IDA and DGT/SEMT and DGP/RP by September 30 of the preceding year.
It was also agreed at negotiations that the Government would confirm, in a
letter to the Association, the agreed performance indicators as a condition
of effectiveness.   It was further agreed at negotiations that a mid-term
review of the execution of the project would take place jointly with the
Association no earlier than June 30, 1992 and no later than September 30,
1992.   To carry out the monitoring of the execution of the project,  a
supervision plan has been prepared (Annex 14), showing the dates of the
supervision missions, the composition of the mission teams, the number of
man-weeks and the main tasks of the missions.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Performance
5.01      No reliable data were available for DGP prior to 1987, but DGT
produced financial statements during implementation of IDA's Telecom-
munications Project  (Credit 1057-RW).   The principal indicators of DGT's
performance are summarized in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1:  Key Indicators of DGT Past Financial Performance (RF million)
1987     1988     1989
Operating revenues             879      1072      1282
Operating expenses             674       748       843
Not operating result            306      324       439
Not Income                     236       250       351
Net fixed assets               2687     2981      3282
Receivables                     149      365       484
Long term debt                 1960     2004      2566
Net working capital             69       281       391
Internal cash generation       600       766      965
Construction expenditure */     865      788       846
Debt equity ratio               60e       64X      53X
Rote of return on net
fixed assets (X)   b/                  12X       14X
DEL (no) mid-year                       7438      8691
Telephone rev./DEL (RF '000)           111.6    122.6
Private collection rate (X)     8ox       84X      88s
a/ Project disbursements
b/ On book values



- 23 -
5.02      During the implementation of the first project (1981-87), DGT's
financial management was poor.   Major shortcomings are as follows:   (a)
commercial accounts were reduced to a modicum of income statements (paras.
3.13, 3.15); (b) there was no register of fixed assets, and therefore: (c)
there was neither asset revaluation nor reliable rate of return calculation;
(d) accounts receivable were not managed;  (e) though auditors produced
reports, there was no actual audit (para. 3.15), as auditors had primarily
to perform as bookkeepers; and (f) no action was taken following a tariff
structure study.
5.03      Following three years of no growth, revenues and income sharply
increased from RF 556 million in 1986 to RF 879 million in 1987.   This
reflects the commissioning of subscriber trunk dialling and international
trunk dialling facilities, at the beginning of 1987, which removed a major
bottleneck for the access from Kigali to the provinces and to international
telecommunications. Accounting information continues to be unreliable: the
amounts of fixed assets may diminish at the time of construction, the rates
of return are calculated on book values, receivables which are equivalent
to five months of total sales do not include Government receivables which
represent over half that amount. In the past, particularly because of GOR's
budget constraints, DGP has maintained operating costs at a minimum,
particularly by keeping labor costs constant, which allowed the sector to
achieve some profitability.
Present Position
5.04      With a view to establishing separate accounts, consultants, hired
under the IDA financed Study Fund, prepared income statements and balance
sheets for DGT and DGP at the end of 1987, but there has been no updating
since. Financial information for the years 1988 and 1989 is not supported
by a reliable commercial accounting system; it has been extrapolated from
the 1987 data. The 1987 financial statements constitute the only reliable
accounting information for the two entities.  DGT's 1989 balance sheet is
shown in Table 5.2. As DGT is still a Government department, equity has been
defined in 1987 as the difference between assets (cash being taken as zero)
and liabilities. The resulting estimated amount in 1989 of RF 2.2 billion
is based on book values and does not comprise all assets, as they are not yet
properly registered. The establishment of SEMT (para. 3.01) would require
a thorough valuation of its net worth.  A 1987 consultant estimate showed
that its revalued net worth would have been about RF 2.3 billion, compared
to a RF 1.3 billion current estimate.  This would provide DGT/SEMT with a
comfortable working capital and a sound debt/equity ratio.
Table 5.2: DGT Balance Sheet
(RF million)
(As of December 31, 1989)
ASSETS                                   LIABILITIES
Net fixed assets               3282      Equity               2231
Telecommunications receivables  484      Long-term debt       2666
Cash and banks                 361       Current Liabilities   134
Other assets                   824
TOTAL                       4921         TOTAL              4921



- 24 -
5.05      When billing and collection were computerized in 1987, accounts
receivable were reduced. About half of the unpaid bills since February 1987,
being unrecoverable, were written off. The rate of return calculated on the
estimated value of assets in 1989 would be well above 10 percent. It thus
appears that the situation of DGT is healthy.
5.06      DGP's 1989 balance sheet Is shown in Table 5.3; it should be
interpreted with caution, however, as the available accounting information
is unreliable. DGP has neither long nor medium term indebtedness, reflecting
the total lack of investment in the sector for the past twenty years. In
1987, profit averaged about 23 percent of revenues. This is exceptional in
the African postal sector and it is estimated to have increased further since
1988 when the GOR decided to compel its agencies and parastatal organizations
to pay postage for official mail, representing 10 to 20 percent of total mail
traffic. There are practically no receivables, because postal services are
paid in cash except for rental of postal boxes. DGP also provides financial
services: postal checking accounts and money orders which are money losers
and for which it competes with banks (para 3.04). As in the case of DGT,
equity has been defined as the difference between assets, cash excluded, and
liabilities. The result must be confirmed by a thorough valuation of DGP's
net worth which would be a condition of the establishment of the Regie that
would replace DGP (para. 3.01).
Table 5.3: DGP Balance Sheet
(RF million)
(As of December 31, 1989)
ASSETS                                  LIABILITIES
Net fixed assets              70        Equity                  186
Government and foreign debtors   349    Long-term debt           -
Cash and banks                79        Postal deposits         304
Other current assets           9        Other current liabilities  17
TOTAL                     607           TOTAL               507
Proiected Financial Performance
DGT/SEMT
5.07      Statements of projected financial performance from 1989 through
1999 and related assumptions are given in Annex 15. The principal indicators
are summarized in Table 5.4.



- 25 -
Table 5.4: Key Indicators of DGT/SEMT Projected Financial Performance
(RF million)
1989      1990    1991      1996    1999
Operating rovenues               1282      1643    2465      3612    4223
Opereting expenses               843       1071    1600      2467    3327
Net operating result             439        672     968      1046     898
Net Income                       351        453      -        338     267
Net fixed assets                 3262      4479    6055      9046    8116
Receivables                      484        411     409       686     704
Long-term debt                  2668       3023    3488      3808     771
Not working capital,excl. cash   391        311     304       436     488
Cash and banks                   361        922     716        -       -
Intornal cash generation         766       991    1643       2276    2618
Construction expenditure         788        848    1270       800     780
Debt service                     186        338     672      1366    1356
Rate of return (X)               14.1X     14.8X   18.1%     11.6X   10.8%
Long-term d./(debt +equity)(%)   63%       48%     43X       36X      8X
Debt service cover. (times)      4          2.9     2.3       1.7     1.9
Net internal cash generation     0.7        0.8     0.7       1.6     1.8
(less d.s)/investment (times)
DEL (no) mid year                8691     10041   11686     17760   26376
Telephone rev. /DEL
(RF '000)                      123        143     192       186     iLl
Arrears (months)                 4.6        3.0     2.0       2.0     2.0
5.08       DGT/SEMT's financial performance would remain satisfactory through
the whole period 1990-95.  The following assumptions have been made for that
period:
(a)  traffic per DEL would decrease as more residential customers are
connected to the network at the rate of about 1,500 new DEL per
year; the reduction is estimated at 5 percent each year, from 1992
on; however, because of the 1990 devaluation and resulting local
inflation (paras. 1.04 and 4.08), telephone revenue per line would
increase from RF 143,000 in 1990 to RF 185,000 in 1995 and reach
RF 151,000 at the end of the period, in 1999;
(b)  the collection rate is expected to improve, as the   computerized
system is becoming more reliable: arrears should go down to two
months of receivables in 1991;
(c)  taxes would take 50 percent of operating income before interest and
a levy would be devised to reduce cash in the balance sheet in
excess of two months of revenues, within the limit of available
income; and
(d) accelerated reimbursement of onlent funds has been provided for
from 1994 onwards.
Based on these assumptions, the results are expected to be:
(a) the operating result or profit margin would increase slowly to
RF 572 million in 1990, to RF 956 million in 1995 and decrease
for the rest of the period to reach RF 896 million in 1999; the
debt/equity ratio would go as low as 42 percent at the end of



- 26 -
project implementation in 1994 and down to 22 percent in 1997, and
8 percent in 1999, when SEHT finances a much larger part of new
construction; and
(b)  the rate of return (on estimated revalued net fixed assets) would
be maintained at over 102 until 1999 by appropriate tariff
increases  (para 5.19).   st tariff  increase  resulted  from  the
introduction of pulse metering for local communications on May 1,
1990: RF 10 for the first three minutes and an additional RF 10
for each slice of 2 minutes (equivalent to an 8 percent annual
increase in 1990 over 1989).
5.09       The  above  financial  projections  are  reasonably  realistic,  as
agreement was reached during negotiations on the following:
(a)  DGT/SEHT would make an effort to increase the collection rate of
its Government, parastatals and private subscribers, and, beginning
on January 1, 1993, the arrears of each individual consumer should
not be allowed to exceed three months of consumption of services;
and
(b)  the rate of return on revalued assets would not be less than 10
percent.
DGP/RP
5.10       Statements of projected financial performance from 1988 through
1999 and related assumptions are given in Annex 16. The principal indicators
are summarized in Table 5.5.
Table 5.5: Key Indicators of DGP/RP Projected Financial Performance
(RF million)
1989     1990      1991     1996      1999
Operating rovenuos             147       164      218       820      399
Operating expense              107       126      167       284      848
Net operating result            41        28       61        85       61
Not Income                      41        28       26        18       26
Net fixed assets                70        77      144      1046     1201
Equity                         186       228      862       686      989
Long-term debt                   -        -       116       676      442
Net working capital,excl. cash  87        86       84        26        9
Cash and banks                  79       81       111        51      110
Construction expenditure         -       80       196        80       80
Debt service                     -        -         -         -       88
Operating ratio (X)             72X      82X       76X       89X      87X
Long-term debt/(debt + equity)(X)    -    -        26X       46X      81X
Debt service covorage (time.)    -        -         -         -        4.1
5.11      DGP's financial performance would remain satisfactory through 1995:
(a) the debt/equity ratio will increase then peak at 50 percent in 1993
and go down to 46 percent in 1995 and 31 percent in 1999;



- 27 -
(b)   tariff increases would be necessary to maintain the operating ratio
below 90 percent (para. 5.17), as new construction expenditure does
not generate revenues, but is required to maintain service, allow
traffic to develop and to improve quality of service; the current
ratio would then reach 1.1 in 1995 and would gradually drop to
reach 1.0 in 1999;
(c)   the percentage of contribution to revenue by category will change
over the period to reflect the dynamism of new services, as per
Table 5.6;
(d)   as shown in Table 5.7, charges will increase as the result of the
restructuring of the DGP into RP in 1992 and slowly level off;
depreciation will increase dramatically due to the effect of
acquiring new assets during the whole project and will have an
impact long after the project is completed; and
(e) dividends have been calculated to take 50 percent of operating
income before interest.
Table 6.8: Percentage Contribution to Revenues by Category for Postal Services
1989    X       1990     X      1995     X       1999     X
Postage-national         37.7  26.6    38.1  24.8    80.1  26.0    100.1  26.1
Postage-international    69.3  40.2    81.1  39.8   141.6  44.3    191.2  47.8
Terminal dues            26.0  17.0    26.0  16.2    35.0  10.9           38.2   9.1
Express mail             10.0   6.7      13.0    8.4    30.4    9.6       36.9   9.0
Public fax                1.6    1.0      2.0    1.3      4.0    1.3       4.7    1.2
Mandates                  1.1    0.7      1.1   0.7       2.7    0.8       2.9    0.7
Checking accounts         0.3    0.2      0.3    0.2      0.6    0.2       0.8    0.1
Postal boxes, rental      7.4    6.0      8.0    6.2    18.9    6.3       17.8   4.6
Taxes on packaging        3.4    2.3      3.7    2.4      4.9    1.5       4.9    1.2
Misc., including phil     1.9    1.3      2.1    1.4      3.9    1.2       S.1    1.3
U17Ii --i&x%  164.2  -100%   320.1    100%    399.4    100%
Notes: - express mail service, introduced in 1988 with revenues equal to almost 4% of total
revenues, would increase fivefold by 1999 and account for 9% of revenues.
- public fax, starting in 1988, would be over 1% of revenues in 1999.
- the part of terminal dues in total revenues (difference between revenues of incoming
and outgoing mail) would be reduced over the projection period, *s incoming and
outgoing mail would be better balanced.
- postal boxes rental would double between 1987 and 1999 and would then account for
4% of total revenues.
Table 6.7: Weight by Category of Percentage Increases by Charges
1989    X      1990     X     1996    X      1999    X
Supplies/services        17.1  18.1   22.4  17.7   62.8  18.6   89.5  20.0
Mail transport           11.0   10.3   15.0   11.9   26.8   9.1   33.9   9.7
Stamp purchases           7.8    7.1    8.3    8.6    13.6    4.8    16.9   4.8
Personnel - direct       52.6  49.2   57.8  46.7   88.9  31.2   92.1  26.4
Personnel - admin.       17.0  16.9   19.6   16.6   30.7  10.8   30.6   8.8
Depreciation              1.5    1.4     3.3   2.6    72.8  25.6  108.2  30.6
108.7  100%   12S.4  100X   284.6  100%   348.1  100%



- 28 -
Proilected Financing Plan
DGT/SEMT
5.12      The aggregate financing plan over the period 1990-94 is given in
Table 5.8.
Table 5.8: ProJected DGT/SEMT Financing Plan 1990-94
(RF million)
SOURCES                                     APPLICATIONS
Internal cash generation       8512         Investment program /a      6806
Lese: debt service           - 3689        Taxes and levies           2891
Net internal cash generation    4823        Variation in working capital    38
Foreign borrowings              4626        Variations in cash         214
TOTAL                       9448            TOTAL                  9448
/a  Includes one year of future programs.
5.13      DGT/SEMT's investment program for the five years 1990-94 would
include the proposed program (RF 5.85 billion), out of which IDA would
finance RF 994 million and provision for future construction expenditure of
RF 450 million. Net internal cash generation would account for 76 percent
of the total investment program, but taxes and levies would reduce by RF 2.89
billion the amount of funds available.  However, as the current ratio (it
would be around 5 to 6 from 1992 through 1994, Annex 14) indicates, SEMT
would still have cash available over and above financing the local components
of the project: it could finance, in local equivalent currency, a larger part
of the investment needs. Foreign loans or grants are only necessary to make
up for the shortage of foreign currency in the country. In order to reduce
the cash still in excess in the balance sheet, the Government should require
SEMT to reimburse, in the early years following the commissioning of the
financed assets, part of the funds onlent from foreign loans or grants. This
was agreed at negotiations for IDA funds (para. 4.12). It is estimated in
the financial projections (Annex 14) that SEMT, from 1994 to 1999, could
reimburse about RF 700 million to the Government as accelerated amortization
and finance the investment budget and future construction expenditures in
equivalent local currency.   The internal cash generation to debt service
ratio would be fairly high during the 1990-94 period (above 2), but taxes and
levies would succeed in pumping out much of the generated cash.
5.14      It was agreed at negotiations that SEMT's commitment to review
annually with IDA its three-year revolving construction program and not to
undertake new construction expenditure in excess of $1.0 million equivalent
in the sector during implementation of the project, without the prior consent
of IDA, would be incorporated in the subsidiary loan agreement (para. 4.12).



- 29 -
DGP/RP
5.15      The aggregate financing plan over the period 1990-94 is given in
Table 5.9.
Table 6.9: Projected DGP Financing Plan 1990-94
(RF million)
SOURCES                                  APPLICATIONS
Internal cash generation        389      Investment Program /a          1067
Less: debt service               -     Dividends                        88
Not internal cash generation     369     Variation in Working Capital   - 9
Foreign borrowings              676      Variation in Cash              - 41
Government subsidies           _10
TOTAL                       1096         TOTAL                       1095
/I  Includes one year of future programs.
5.16      DGP/RP's investment program for 1990-94 would include the proposed
project (RF 916 million) and provision for future expenditures (RF 140
million). IDA would finance 50 percent of the sorting center building, which
would be entirely in foreign currency, 100 percent of equipment (sorting
center, postal windows and vehicles) and 100 percent of consultant setvices
(para. 4.11).  Net internal cash generation would cover 35 percent of the
investment program, which is satisfactory. DGP/RP would finance its future
construction expenditures, in equivalent local currency. It was agreed at
negotiations that DGP/RP's commitment to review annually with IDA its three-
year revolving construction program and not to undertake new construction
expenditure in excess of $0.5 million equivalent without the prior consent
of IDA, would be incorporated in the subsidiary 3oan agreement (para. 4.12).
Tariffs
DGP/RP
5.17       International postage tariffs would increase, in 1991, to the full
extent of the devaluation (para. 1.04).   Postal tariffs would have to be
raised further to correct the effects of local inflation (para. 4.08): at
the beginning of 1992, national postage as well as other services would be
raised by 50 percent, to reflect processing costs (Annex 16) and also because
present profitability is due to high terminal dues, that could be lowered at
the next UPU congress.   Further increases for national and international
postage would be necessary in 1993, by 33 percent and 17 percent
respectively, to keep the operating ratio below 90 percent, and again in
1996, by 20 percent for both, to correct the effects of inflation and take
advantage of the potential consumer surplus in international mail.
5.18      The  consultants who made  a diagnosis  of the postal  services
concluded that the tariff structure  does not reflect their costs.   As
subsequent tariff increases would be required, it would be necessary to
support  them by a tariff  structure  study.   Agreement was  obtained  at
negotiations that the operating ratio of RP would never be more than 90



- 30 -
percent and that a study on postal services tariffs should be available and
reviewed by IDA by June 30, 1992, and the new tariff structure implemented
one year later.
DGT/SEMT
5.19      Following the 1990 increase (para. 5.08), the level of tariffs was
sufficient to enable DGT to have a satisfactory rate of return on revalued
assets.   Furthermore, the increase, resulting from the November 10, 1990
devaluation (para. 1.04) and applied to international traffic (estimated at
65 percent of total traffic, mitigated by an estimated 10 percent reduction
in volume), would cause DGT's rate of return to be about 18 percent in 1991.
To compensate for the local inflation (para. 4.08) resulting from the
devaluation, tariffs should be further increased by 10 percent in 1994.
DGT's tariff structure has remained basically unchanged since 1975, except
for the introduction of pulse metering on local commnunications, in 1990
(para. 5.08).   Perception rates of international tariffs ;ere adjusted in
1982 and 1987, in line with new international agreements on accounting rates
(tariffs for telecommunications services are shown in Annex 17). A tariff
study was undertaken by consultants in 1982 as part of the previous IDA
financed project (Credit 1057-RW) and submitted to the Government in 1983,
including comments by the Bank, but no action on tariffs resulted. In June
1989, an ITU/UNDP expert attempted to review the telecommunications tariffs,
but due to lack of cost accounting and other reliable accounting information,
the study limited itself to recommend generally accepted tariff principles
that should be applied in a forthcoming study.
5.20      The present breakdown of telephone revenues shows a great unbalance
among the three types of services, local, national and international, for
which the percentages of revenues were, before the 1990 increase, about 25
percent, 10 percent and 65 percent. Interurban calls may be still penalized
as distance does not justify discrepancies.   The effect of local pulse
metering on traffic congestion during peak hours will have to be assessed.
To address these issues, a study of tariffs would be conducted under the
project in order to propose a tariff structure that would be conducive to the
most economic utilization of the facilities. The study would also include
the review of the effects of the lowering of international tariffs on the
financial soundness of SEMT, as such lowering is expected as the result of
competition among the major world operators.   Agreement was reached at
negotiations that such study should be available and reviewed by IDA by
June 30, 1992, and the new tariff structure implemented one year later.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Return on Investment
6.01      The  internal  financial  rate  of  return  on  SEMT's  1989-94
construction expenditure is 12 percent (Annex 18). However, the financial
rate of return does not fully reflect the economic benefits of the project:
the value to the consumer of the telephone service is in excess of the actual
tariff; and the economic cost of the project is lower than the actual cost



- 31 -
when employment of unskilled labor for cable laying and civil works is priced
at its opportunity cost. Thus, the estimated economic rate of return is 25
percent (Annex 18). This is a conservative figure since substantial external
benefits accrue to the economy which are difficult to quantify (paras 6.03
to 6.04).   Sensitivity analysis shows that if costs are increased by 10
percent, and revenues decreased by 10 percent, simultaneously, the economic
rate of return decreases to 20 percent.   If revenues are delayed by two
years, the economic rate of return decreases to 17 percent.
6.02      Unlike the capital intensive telecommunications operations, postal
operations are highly labor intensive. Postal infrastructure is limited to
office space and small buildings, while other physical assets, although
necessary, are expected to contribute to a relatively small extent to both
the total cost and the value of the services provided to the economy. For
this reason, the internal financial rate of return on DGP/RP's 1990-93
capital expenditures and the economic rate of return on postal investment
have not been calculated.
Benefits
6.03      In the context of the proposed operation, the Government has been
able to put together a four-year investment program emphasizing least-cost
solutions for high priority investments, bringing Rwanda closer to the Sub-
Saharan average for telephone and postal density, while ensuring efficient
sector development and profitability. The physical investments financed by
the proposed Credit represent a relatively modest part of the overall invest-
ment program but, under conservative assumptions, the Government program
agreed with the Bank has an economic rate of return of 25 percent. Beyond
returns on investment, there will be benefits from improved sector management
resulting from the creation of autonomous entities supported by the project
which cannot be quantified. These include improving and maintaining at high
levels the quality of service, increasing staff productivity and upgrading
billing and collection performance.
6.04      Promotion of private sector initiative in industry and trade is
a major objective of Rwanda's development strategy. Improved telecommunica-
tions services will benefit export oriented ventures and will facilitate
the supply response from the productive sectors. Increased availability of
telecommunications services will also promote activity in the service and
export-oriented sectors.   The public sector will also benefit from the
introduction of efficient management into a sector that represents approxi-
mately 6 percent of total public enterprise employment. The project, through
improved communications, will also enhance coordination within the adminis-
tration, and between public departments and their private counterparts.
Fiscal Impact
6.05      Up to the end of 1988, there had been no formal process of resource
transfer from DGT and DGP to the Government as they were part of thc
Government structure. The Government has taken the decision to subject all
commercially-oriented parastatals to private tax law in order to emphasize
their financial and institutional autonomy. SEMT and RP are expected to make
a formal contribution to the Government budget through taxes and dividends.



- 32 -
In addition, SEMT would repay part of the debt previously incurred by GOR
for DGT that would have been onlent to SEMT by GOR, to keep its cash holding
within the limit of the transferable income to retained earnings (para.
5.13). The total of taxes and levies paid to GOR would be RF 1.9 billion for
the duration of the project.
Least Cost Solution
6.06      Through cost-effective technical choices, the project represents
the least cost solution for providing the service levels planned.
Canalization of local telephone cable has been preferred over buried cable
or overhead cable for high volume sections of the network since the higher
capital cost would be more than offset by the discounted lower operating and
maintenance costs, and by fewer future outages.   The choice of digital
switching and transmission technology over analog for new systems is
justified by a lower discounted cost per new DEL. Multi-access systems for
rural subscribers offer considerable economies over alternative solutions and
make expansion of access to the system feasible in many areas.
Risks
6.07      There are two principal risks of the project.   First, there is
the risk that delays in putting in place the agreed independent entities may
postpone the introduction of efficient management in the sector and could
lead to the reduction of project benefits. This risk has been minimized by:
(i) a long dialogue with key ministries on the value of establishing
independent entities, culminating with the adoption of the Statement of
Communications Sector Policy by the Rwandese authorities; and (ii) starting
the preparation for establishing the new companies well in advance of project
implementation and by financing a management consulting firm that will help
set up efficient commercial and financial structures, introduce systems and
procedures, and train staff. Second, poor coordination and supervision of
project implementation could lead to delays and cost overruns.  This risk
will be reduced through close donor coordination ensuring maximum coherence
of different subprojects, and by retaining consulting firms that will assist
in project implementation and supervision.
Environmental and Health Effects
6.08      The proposed project is expected to have no adverse environmental
or health effects.  On the contrary, more efficient use of communications
would substitute for personal transportation and correspondingly reduce
environmental pollution and promote energy conservation.    In addition,
improved communications services would facilitate dispersion of health
services and emergency care. The GCR owns the land for the erection of the
postal sorting center, and is presently using it for other purposes;
consequently no population displacement will result from this construction.



- 33 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Condition of Negotiations
7.01      GOR's approval of a Statement of Communications Sector Policy,
acceptable to the Association was a condition of negotiations (para. 2.15).
This document (Annex 1) has been formally approved by the interministerial
committee in charge of supervising the P & T reform.
Agreements Reached During Negotiations
7.02      During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a)  a plan of action to be reviewed by IDA to help GOR decide on how
to mobilize resources from the communications sector (taxes,
duties, dividends), including a comprehensive tariff study, would
be prepared by consultants before June 30, 1992 (paras. 3.03, 5.18,
5.20), and the tariff changes implemented by June 30, 1993;
(b)  at the creation of both SEMT and RP, GOR will enter into a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each of the two new entities on
terms and conditions approved by IDA (para. 4.12); the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements would include (i) the requirement for SEMT and RP,
from the date of their creation, to produce financial statements
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, within six
months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.15); (ii) SEHT's
obligation to earn an annual return on average net fixed assets of
not less than 10 percent (para. 5.09); (iii) SEMT's commitments to
review  its  three-year  revolving  construction  program  for
telecommunications with IDA on an annual basis, and not to
undertake new construction expenditures in excess of $1.0 million
equivalent in the telecommunications sector during the project
period without the prior consent of IDA (para. 5.14); (iv) RP's
commitments to review its three-year revolving construction program
for posts with IDA on an annual basis, and not to undertake new
construction expenditures in excess of $0.5 million equivalent in
the postal sector during the project period without the prior
consent of IDA (para 5.16); and (v) RP's obligation to have an
operating ratio of not more than 90 percent (para. 5.18);
(c)  indicators of performance would be established for the life of the
project and five years thereafter and would be jointly reviewed
each year by IDA, DGT/SEMT and DGP/RP (para. 4.18);
(d) a mid-term review of the execution of the project would be carried
out jointly by the Government and the Association no earlier than
June 30, 1992 and no later than September 30, 1992 (para. 4.18);
(e)  SENT would not permit arrears of more than three months for
telecommunications services, on the part of any subscriber, private
or public (para. 5.09); and



- 34 -
(f)  when SEMT's balance sheet shows excess cash, SEMT would be required
to reimburse IDA onlent credit to the Government at a quicker pace
than the 15-year amortization period would require (paras. 4.12 and
5.13).
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
7.03 (a) the hiring of consultants for the institutional reform of both post
and telecommunications activities (para. 4.17); and
(b)  delivery of a letter from the Government  to the Association
containing performance indicators to be reached from 1992 to 1995
by SEMT and RP (para. 4.18).
Conditions of Disbursement
7.04      The conditions of disbursement of the telecommunications equipment
component would be the establishment of the "Societ d'economie mixte des
telecommunications" (SEMT) and the signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between GOR and SEMT. The conditions of disbursement of the postal equipment
and the construction of the sorting center would be the establishment of the
"Regie des Postes" (RP) and the signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between GOR and RP (para. 4.16).
Recommendation
7.05      With the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA Credit of $12.8 million on standard terms.



- 35 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Communications Sector Policy
I.   Role of the Communications Sector in Developing
and Diversifying Economic Activity
1.        Rapid and  reliable  communications  and  the extension  of mail
distribution and public telecommunications into rural areas and urban centers
will tend to encourage the economic and social integration of local
communities, at the same time improving security, the dissemination of
information and the administrative activity of the public authorities.
2.        Given the constraints resulting from Rwanda's landlocked situation
and its distance from the sea-lanes, one of the major roles of a communica-
tions sector able to take advantage of modern-day technology will be to
further the opening-up of the country to the outside world, facilitating the
integration of its economy into regional and international markets.
3.        At the national level,  the role of the communications sector
will be to facilitate the decentralization and diversification of economic
activity throughout the country; the promotion of new export-oriented
activities, in particular in the agricultural sector; the development of
the services sector, and banking in particular; and the establishment, via
private initiative, of small and medium-sized undertakings which will create
jobs.
II. Sectoral Strategy
4.        So that the communications sector may play its part in the nation's
socio-economic development under the best possible conditions, the Government
of Rwanda has resolved to reform the bodies constituting the posts and
telecommunications sectL:. This decision forms part of the wider undertaking
of reorganization and stimulation of the economy, a major component of which
is the reform of the Rwandese state-owned enterprises.
5.        The goal of this reform will be in particular:
(a) to remove State budgetary constraints from the financing of the
activities of the sector, making them develop and operate on the
basis of their own resources;
(b) to improve and maintain the quality of communications services;
(c) to enhance the sector's capacity to bring in fiscal resources, and
as a result improve its net contribution to the national budget;
(d) to assist in harnessing savings by the extension and improvement
of the postal checking accounts and money order services; and



- 36 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
(e) to ease the current burden of managing the sector on the State's
administrative structure.
6.        In the telecommunications area, the Rwandese Government has decided
to set up a semi-private telecommunications company (SocietA d'Economie Mixte
des Telecommunications).   The participation of private partners  in its
management, and the role they may play in the injection of capital into it,
are defined later (paras. 17, 18 and 21). In the case of telecommunications
in particular, a further reason for allowing private participation is the
need for a flexible commercial response to the demand for many and varied new
services, appearing on the world market as a result of the development of
advanced computer technologies.
7.        In the postal area, the Government has decided to create a Public
Corporation (Regie des Postes) with a separate legal status. It will be made
sufficiently autonomous, administratively and financially, to be able to act
completely as a commercial undertaking, alongside its role as a provider of
a public service. The financial transactions carried out by the Post Office
for the postal checking accounts service will also be stimulated with the aim
of better harnessing of national savings. Furthermore, new services such as
international express mail and fax transmission will be developed in order
to give a better response to the needs of customers becoming more and more
demanding.
III. Sectoral Reform of the Postal and Telecommunications Services
8.        The restructuring of the communications sector makes it necessary
to define and separate the responsibilities of sectoral policy-making and
regulation, which remain functions of the State, from those related to the
provision of services to the public and the management and operation of the
resources of the postal and telecommunications services, which are to be
assigned to independent operating bodies.
9.        The sectoral responsibilities which remain exclusively the province
of the Rwandese Government are:
(a) to define and oversee the implementation of sectoral policy;
(b) to regulate the sector and ascertain that the regulations are
applied;
(c) to define the tariff policy and approve the rates for basic
services established under this policy;
(d) to define the indicators of service quality and the financial
return expected from the operating bodies, and to monitor the
implementation of their operations (Performance Contract);



- 37 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 7
(e)  to  allocate  the  frequencies  within  the  radio  spectrum,  and
administer the spectrum; 1/
(f) to grant licenses to operate telecommunications links, private
networks or value-added services operated by private persons; I/
(g)  to grant licenses for the subscriber installations, networks and
equipment to qualified private contractors, to approve subscriber
equipment and terminals and to authorize such equipment for sale
and connection to the network by private licensees; 2/
(h)  to interact with other relevant Government departments on all
questions dealing with national security and any other concerns
of the State in the communications area;
(i)  to represent the State within regional and international posts
and telecommunications bodies dealing with questions of general
sectoral policy, and to conclude treaties, agreements, conventions
and international regulations in this area.
IV. Development, Provision and Operation of Communications
Services in Rwanda
10.       The Rwandese Government has decided to set up a semi-private
Telecommunications Company and a Public Postal Corporation to undertake the
development, operation and management of the services currently administered
by the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MINITRANSCO).  These two
organizations, to be run on a commercial basis, will enjoy administrative
and financial autonomy as defined in their own legal articles. Whereas the
Public Postal Corporation will be entirely owned by the State, the capital
of the semi-private Telecommunications Company will be progressively opened
up to participation by other investors, in accordance with procedures and up
to participatory percentages to be laid down when the Company is actually
established.   The Public Postal Corporation and the Telecommunications
Company will be placed under the supervision of MINITRANSCO, which will take
on the sectoral responsibilities listed in para. 9 above on behalf of the
Government.
1/   The technical management and the supervision of the radio frequencies
and/or the administration and supervision of the licenses may possibly
be subcontracted to the telecommunications operating body.
2/   Progressively, in line with the capabilities of the Rwandese private
sector and customer demand.



- 38 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
11.       The Public Postal Corporation and the Telecommunications Company
will be responsible for the development and maintenance of the postal and
public telecommunications infrastructures; and for the creation, development
and provision of postal and public telecommunications services within Rwanda
and internationally, subject to legal provisions in force and in line with
the operational and   nancial objectives which will be laid down in each
Performance Contract concluded with the State (para. 13).
12.       In order to be able to successfully fulfill their role as a
provider of a public service, the Public Postal Corporation and the
Telecommunications Company will:
(a)  be set up within a legal framework providing the administrative
and  financial  autonomy  needed  for  them  to  carry  out  their
operations, and maintain their relationships with customers and
suppliers on a commercial basis;
(b)  have  an  organizational  structure  and  internal  procedures
(financial,  accounting,  staffing)  closely  aligned with  their
objectives of public services managed on a commercial basis;
(c)  be  presided  over by a Board  of Directors  chosen  for  their
competence, the composition of which will reflect not only the
interests of the users but also those of the partners in the
undertaking in the case of the Telecommunications Company, or those
of the sole shareholder, the State, in the case of the Public
Postal Corporation.   The distribution of responsibilities and
the areas of jurisdiction as between the Board and the senior
management will be clearly defined;
(d)  have  their  own  Personnel  Regulations  and  wage  and  salary
structure--based on those for other Parastatals in the case of the
Public Postal Corporation and governed by the Labor Code applicable
to Rwandese private companies in the case of the Telecommunications
Company--allowing them to follow a personnel and human resource
development policy compatible with their function and their
objectives.
13.       The respective rights and obligations of the State on the one hand,
and of the Public Postal Corporation and the Telecommunications Company on
the other, will be defined for a period of three years by a Performance
Contract agreed on between the State and each of the entities.
14.       Each Performance Contract will lay down in particular:
(a)  the goals set by the State with regard to the provision of public
services, production, quality of service and economic and financial
profitability;
(b)  the  resources  placed  at  the  disposal  of  the  Public  Postal
Corporation and the Telecommunications Company by the Government
in order that they may meet those goals; and



- 39 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
(c) the rules governing the relationship between the Public Postal
Corporation or the Telecommunications company and the State.
15.       Under their Performance Plan, the Public Postal Corporation and
the Telecommunications Company will have powers and responsibilities assigned
to them by the State. They will be required in particular:
(a) to manage and operate the communications services under their
control in a completely professional manner, in accordance with
methods and procedures in force in the sector and in observance
of the principles of economy and efficiency;
(b) to stay abreast of trends in demand, to plan the introduction of
new services or the extension of existing ones; to design, prepare
and implement extensions or upgrades to the infrastructures on the
basis of the most advantageous technical and economic approach;
Cc) to manage their personnel autonomously, including hiring and
dismissals, in accordance with the law and the regulations in force
for the different types of undertaking (Public Corporation or Semi-
private company); to make proposals for changes in pay levels and
pay-scales, and to provide introductory and ongoing staff training;
*d) to manage their own financial resources and cash flow autonomously
and in accordance with the systems and procedures applicable to
commercial companies in Rwanda; to take out loans (and, in the case
of the Telecommunications Company, to issue stocks or bonds);
*e) to prepare annual and multi-annual investment plans and operating
accounts;
Cf) to define and propose revisions to the level and structure of
tariffs for basic services, and to define and initiate rat s for
new services and changes in rates for the services not under the
control of the State;
.g) to conclude contracts for equipment and services in accordance
with procedures applicable in Rwanda to public corporations and
semi-private companies;
(h) to bring actions or go to court, if necessary, in the event of
disagreements with third parties;
(i) to suspend or cancel service to users who do not meet their
obligations; and
(j) to take part in regional and international conferences, committees
and working groups dealing with technical, administrative and
operational matters in the field of posts and telecommunications.



- 40 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
16.       In addition to the public service obligations laid down in the
two Performance Contracts, the financial contributions of the Public Postal
Corporation and the Telecommunications Company to the Treasury will also be
defined, in the form of payment of dividends, tax on income, customs duties,
interest and principal of earlier loans onlent by the State, etc. For its
part,  the State will undertake to pay the amounts due for postal and
telecommunications services provided to the Government itself and to
Government agencies financed out of the national budget.
V.   Association with the Private Sector in the Telecommunications Area
17.       Association with the private sector (or privatization)  in the
telecommunications area may be envisaged, either by the sale of share capital
to private foreign and/or domestic investors, or by the participation of a
partner in management, operation and the corporation's capital.
18.       In deciding to establish a semi-private telecommunications company,
the Rwandese Government is envisaging the sale of a part of the share capital
of the new Company.   The details of such investor participation, and the
percentage of shares to remain the property of the State, will be defined
when the Company itself is established, in the light of offers received from
potential investors.   It is however assumed that the Telecommunications
Company will be first established and equipped with sufficient resources to
enable it to operate, before portions of the share capital are made available
to third parties, whether public or private.
VI. Terms and Conditions for the Transfer of Assets
19.       One step that must be taken before the Public Postal Corporation
and the Telecommunications Company can be set up is to ascertain the portion
of the capital corresponding to the value of the assets currently belonging
to the State and under the aegis of MINITRANSCO. This will be determined by
drawing up an initial balance sheet, which will involve evaluation of the
assets and liabilities of both the Public Postal Corporation and Telecom-
munications Company. The asset side consists of the physical and financial
fixed assets and the current assets, which will have to be recorded and
evaluated in their entirety.  The liabilities consist of long, medium and
short-term debts. The medium and long-term debts are the ones which relate
to the fixed assets and correspond to loans and credits granted to the State.
They will have to be transferred to the Public Postal Corporation and the
Telecommunications Company under an onlending agreement with the State, or
some other arrangement will have to be made.



- 41 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7
20.       A correct assessment of the Public Postal Corporation and of the
Telecommunications Company will include determining their net value. Such
determination will be based on:
(a)  a detailed evaluation by an external auditor of all the fixed
assets which will be used by the Public Postal Corporation on the
one hand, and by the Telecommunications Company on the other, at
their acquisition value: land, buildings, technical installations,
stocks, financial securities, and operating capital, along with an
estimate of bad client debts;
(b)  the present value of the medium and long-term debts, which is
necessary since the terms and conditions of the loans granted in
the past to the State are not all the same, some of them having
been granted, indeed, under liberal conditions.
21.       In order to set up the Public Postal Corporation, which will stay
exclusively owned by the State of Rwanda, it will be necessary only to
determine the net value as described above.  In the case of the Telecom-
munications Company, on the other hand, it will also be necessary to estimate
the value of the Company on the basis of its forecast financial return, drawn
up by taking into account reliable and coordinated past financial statements,
profit and loss accounts, funds flow statements, balance sheets for the two
most recent complete financial years and reasonable financial projections for
the three to five years ahead. This value will be compared to the net value
determined as described in para. 20 above, and on the basis of discussions
and negotiations with the potential private partner or partners, a final
legal value will be established by mutual agreement, and will be used to set
the Company's share price.
VII. Human Resources
22.       The staff of MINITRANSCO and of its Directorates-General for Posts
and Telecommunications will be assigned to the Public Postal Corporation, the
Telecommunications Company and the departments of the supervisory Ministry
which is to take on the sectoral responsibilities as defined in para. 9
above, on the basis of each staff member's level of training, competence and
experience.
VIII. Reciprocal Services
23.       Arrangements will be made among the Public Postal Corporation,
the Telecommunications Company, the supervisory Ministry and other public
departments, to cover compensation for reciprocal services rendered, and the
use of the Public Postal Corporation's resources by the Telecommunications
Company and vice versa. These arrangements will apply in particular in areas
where trLe low level of communications traffic does not justify the
malkL,nance of separate installations and the provision of staff from both
the postal and the telecommunications sectors.



- 42 -                             ANNEX 2
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Telecommunications Services: Basic Data
(December 31)
1989
Telephone density                               0.112
Number of telephone exchanges                      13
Installed switching capacity                   12,968
Number of DELs                                  9,213
Exchange Fill                                     712
Recorded waiting list                           3,000
Z of satisfied expressed demand                   752
Number of telex exchanges                           1
Installed switching capacity                      200
Number of DELs                                    145
Exchange Fill                                     72Z
Telecommmnications Staff                          488
Staff per 1000 DELs                                48



- 43 -                             ANNEX 3
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Postal Service: Comparative Indicators
of Postal Services In African Countries
(Base 1987)
Benin    Niger    Togo    Mali   Rwanda Tanzania
Basic Indicators
Population (in m.)            4.2      6.6      3.1       8       6.3       23
Post offices                   62       45       35      99        29      740
P.O. boxes              14,000 +      n.a.  16,000'  5,500    5,300   96,000
home delivery
Global staff               1,090       680      470     740       370     2100
(Post plus common
services OPT)
Estimated traffic             6.3      3.9      6.4     4.7       5.8       20
(in Mln) (Millions
of pieces of mail
posted in the
country)
Ratios
Population/Post office   68,000  147,000  89,000  81,000  218,000   31,000
Staff/Post office              18       15       13       7        13      2.3
Items posted/Inhabitants    1.5        0.6        2     0.6       0.9      1.9
Traffic/Staff              5,800    5,800  13,500   6,300   15,700    9,525
Revenues/Charges             0.7      0.65    1.06    0.77       1.16      0.6
Note:    Caution should be used with those comparators since they may not
always cover precisely the same activity (e.g., relative importance
of financial services within the Postal Sector).



- 44 -                                   ANNEX 4
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Postal Service: Basic Data
Matrix of Mail Traffic Flows
To:   Kigali   Rost of tho    Subtotal    Foreign        Total
Posted in:                       Country          (RW)      Countrios
Kigali                   28          3            S1           13          44
Rost of the country    _3           17            60           18        68
Subtotal (RW)            81         20            81            -           -
Foroign countries        14          5            19            -           -
Total mailed (RW)        76         26           100            -           -
Total procesood (RW)      -          -             -          181
Demand of Post Office Boxes
Number of      Number of                       Potential Applicants
Lettor Boxes       Boxos       Expr-ossd         with the Construction
Post Offices              Installod       Rented         Doemnd           of New Postal Offices
Kigali                     2,288           2,227    8 per working day             2,000
Butaro                       710             420    1 por working day               200
Oitsrams                     126             125    2 por working weok              100
Other main post officos   1.879            1.228         10                       2.200
Subtotal in main cities   5,000            4,000         8,000                    4,600
Other sub-post offices       800             600           200                      500
TOTAL                  6,800           4,600         8,200                    6,000
Postal Checking Accounts
Number of Accounts           Average Balance/Account
Processing Conters          1984       1988      1988          (July 1988, in RF)
Kigali                       579        570     1,125                  176,284
Gitarma                       69         60       5a8                   29,317
NyabTnindu                   155        8U        165                   10,491
Butaro                       272        139       272                    8,210
Gikongoro                     a6         87        06                  691,647
Cyangugu                     180         86       180                    9,829
Kibuyo                       102         47        102                  19,081
Gisonyl                      150         90       150                    6,826
Ruitengeri                   242         89       242                    6,009
Byamba                       440         60       440                    4,718
Kibungo                      158          0       158                  42,440
Rwamgana                      46          0        46                    2,6U
TOTAL                  1,207     1,113      3,489
Not:  18S  RF 76



-45-                             ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 15
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE INSTITUTIONAL REFORM
OF THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
I.          INTRODUCTION
Currently (1990), the Rwandese telecommunications sector is governed
by a government agency lacking the necessary separate resources for undertaking
the development process that is now proving essential. The result is a lack of
legal, financial and management autonomy.
In order to solve this problem, the government has decided to
establish a *Soci6td mixte des t4l4communications' to manage and operate the
entire telecommunications sector.
By taking such an important and radical decision, Rwanda intends to
provide the telecommunications sector with the necessary resources for performing
its functions to the full by undertaking a form of development governed by
criteria that closely combine commercial objectives with the need to serve the
public.
This decision is part of a wider plan to achieve economic adjustment
and recovery, an important component of which is the reform of government
enterprises. The following are the purposes of this reform:
(a)   to endow the telecommunications sector with management autonomy;
(b)   to lighten the burden that managing the sectoi currently imposes on
the government's administrative structure;
(c)   to improve and maintain service quality;
(d)   to  free  the  financing of  activities  in  the  sector  from  the
government's budgetary constraints and enable it to develop and
operate with its own resources;
(e)   to increase the sector's potential and mobilize tax resources, thus
increasing its net contribution to the government budget.
The first and second phases of this reform (the consultant in these
cases being SOFREPOST) concluded in 1987 and 1990 respectively. They served to
define the major options for change in the organization of telecommunications
in Rwanda, and led to the product'on of draft legislation and a draft
Telecommunications Code. The latter are being examined by ministerial committees
and will be submitted to Parliament, where a vote will be taken on the
establishment of the 'Soci4t4 mixte."



- 46 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 15
For the sector to be restructured, the roles of the government and
the 'Societe mixte' must be clearly defined. Thus, the government will retain
its policy-making and regulatory functions, while the OSoci4t4 mixtel will be
responsible for operating and managing telecommunications.
Assistance from experts and consultants is necessary for the
preparation and establishment of this enterprise.
II.         ThE PURPOSE OF THE CONSULTANTS' ACTIVITIES
The purpose of the consultants' activities will be to establish and
improve organizational structures, introduce and break in new enterprise-type
management systems, and train personnel.
The overall objective will be divided into the following four sub-
objectives.   These must be pursued simultaneously because of their numerous
interconnections:
(1)   Establishment of the 'Societ6 des t4lecomuunications':
-     proposals for distribution of capital stock;
-     identification of stockholders;
-     control system;
-     program contract (between the government and the *Socidtd
nationale des t6ldcommunications');
-     agreements with similar agencies.
(2)   Establishment of management bodies, in line with the enterprise's
objectives:
-     establishing a *development management, unit, to be responsible
for planning and monitoring developmen; projects; it is to be
provided with the techniques, instruments and personnel
necessary for fulfilling its ro'e;
-     organizing and establishing a commercial service for ensuring
that the 'Socidtd' achieves the profitability essential to
its operation as a publLi utility;
-     establishing a human resource management service;
-     extending the information service.
(3)   The planning and establishment of an enterpri3e-type financial
management system:



- 47 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 15
defining budgetary guidelines: establishment of the service;
roles and functions of parties involved; budget breakdown and
cycle;
preparing budgets;
planning and facilitating the establishment of a new accounting
dnd financial management system appropriate to the new form
of telecommunications organization;
matching the objectives of the accounting system to the
requirements of the Rwandese accounting system, external and
internal budgetary controls, and the tax regulations governing
telecormunications;
for the purposes of asset accounting, providing reliable and
complete inventory mechanisms, and procedures for registering
fixed assets (applicable to services and equipment);
cooperating in defining information channels relating to the
management of inventory, fixed assets and personnel;
making all aspects of the accounting system operational through
efficient procedures and properly trained staff.
(6)   Security measures applicable to all activities.   Procedures for
establishing a plan covering the following aspects of security must
be defined and proposed:
-     network security (technical and organizational, together with
a crisis plan);
computer security;
establishment of a special security service (to guard against
unauthorized entry, fires and explosions).
EI.        DESCRIPTION OF TASKS
The consultants' activities will be divided into the following eight
pecific tasks:
(1)   establishment of the 'Societ4 des telecommunications,  and evaluation
of its organization;
(2)   management of 4evelopment;
(3)   commercial management;
(4)   human resource management;



- 48 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 15
(5)   information systea;
(6)   budget;
(7)   accounting;
(8)   security.
In each of the above tasks, the consultants will be responsible for
on-the-job personnel training and the transfer of know-how.
The consultants will prepare detailed task-by-task plans of the
training to be acquired in Rwanda and elsewhere.
3.1         Establishment  of the  "Socift6 des T6l1communications"  and its
Organization
The government will be assisted in mobilizing and distributing the
resources constituting the share capital of the *Socidtd mixte.w In addition,
the consultants will assist the government in preparing the internal regulations
for enabling the nSoci6td mixte' to operate optimally and efficiently.
The consultants will evaluate the form of organization and status
conferred by the government, and will adapt them into the forms appropriate for
a mixed enterprise.
This task is quite clearly a continuation of Phases 1 and 2 of
SOPREPOST's activities in 1987 and 1989.
The work will be divided into the follo ig stages, each with a
specific objective:
-     study and evaluation of the present situation (taking into account
the existing studies);
-     definition of the objectives of the new organization;
-     proposals for a new form of organization;
-     strategy and conditions governing the establishment of the new
organization, the resources necessary, and preconditions for success;
-     assistance in the establishment of the organization.
Given the definitions that have already been established, the
consultants will focus on the establishment of the 'Socidtd.' This stage will
be implemented mainly by the telecommunications staff themselves, the role of
the consultants being primarily to provide support and organize and guide working
sessions.   All decisions must be taken by DGT (the Directorate General of
Telecommunications).



- 49 -                       ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 15
3.1.1       It will be made clear that financial control in the "Soci6tdl is to
be exercised at two levels; i.e., by an internal auditor directly responsible
to the Director General, and by an external auditor of recognized international
standing. Financial organization will be further developed, and the information
concerning human resources will define the nature of a private-sector
telecommunications enterprise in the Rwandese setting (possibly including
provision for collective agreements).
The program contract will define the contractual duties of the
"Socidt6m in terms of objectives; i.e., with indicators of performance, volume
and quality of services, operating income, financial results, profitability,
etc.   It will be necessary to establish a link between the profitability
objective and tariff policy, and specify the government's duties toward the
"Societe," including the obligation to pay for communications services in a
timely manner; otherwise the "Sociftd' could be obliged to reduce the number of
lines available to government agencies, or demand appropriate compensation for
the services provided.
In a special document, the consultants will define the personnel
regulations to be recommended for the "Societ6' (e.g., based on either a contract
system or a system of collective agreements complying with the Rwandese Labor
Code). The document will also recommend transitional arrangements for government
employees, to be applied to their transition from their current status as civil
servants to that of employees of the "Socidtd."
The consultants will prepare a set of internal regulations for the
"SociOte" dealing with both the relationship between it and users, and with
management procedures.   They will also prepare special regulations to govern
procurement procedures.
3.1.2       The Establishment of an Opening Balance
A prerequisite for establishing the *Socidtd" is to calculate the
value of the fixed assets currently belonging to the State and for which the
ministry is responsible.   The only way to do this is to prepare an opening
balance for the 'Sociftd.I At a second phase, an independent auditor will give
legal validation to this calculation of the net worth of the 'Soci6td.'
In order to prepare the opening balance, the assets and liabilities
of the "Societ4' must be assessed. The assets consist of physical and financial
fixed assets and circulating capital, and these must be completely inventoried.
Liabilities consist of medium-term and short-term debt. Medium-term debt is that
relating to fixed assets financed by the State.  It would be appropriate to
assign them to the 'Societe4 by means of a transfer agreement, or provide for
some similar arrangement.
The net worth of the 'Societe' will be the difference between the
assets and liabilities thus assessed.   However,  the State's debts to the
'Societe" (resulting from arrears of payment for services) must be incorporated
into the assets. It is also essential to include the working capital necessary
for operating the new "Socidtd.6



-50 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 15
The consultants will prepare an estimated income statement for the
year 1990, and projected income statements for the period from 1991 to 1995.
3.2         Management of Development
The management of development will focus on the transfer of know-
how. The consultants will bring together all existing projects and restructure
and develop them.
The consultants will prepare procedures for future projects in line
with the work already performed.
The various tasks can be summarized as follows:
-     deciding methods for establishing long and medium-term plans, to
include:
-     projections of demand and the geographical distribution of
demand;
-     mediur-term structure (1993);
-     preparation of a master plan indicating the structure targeted
over the long term (20 years);
-     guidelines for the largest urban areas;
-     presenting these plans in the form of three-year programs;
-     proposing a system for coordinating the various technical aspects
(buildings, switching, local networks and transmission), to ensure
optimum profitability on investment;
-     establishing records for project monitoring;
-     defining clearly the various aspects of a project (operations,
technical issues, markets, financing, lending by donors, fixed
assets, etc.);
-     organizing the technical and financial aspects of project monitoring.
3.3         Comercial ManaRement
This task will consist of ensuring that the new "Soci4te' will
operate in a truly commercial manner, so that telecommunications can be developed
in the best interests of the enterprise and the market.
In addition, it will be necessary to establish a comtercial
information system to enable decision makers to take prompt action at all times
in pursuit of the main objectives, and to establish a tariff system in keeping
with the new commercial policy. To this end, the following items must be taken
into consideration:



- 51 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 15
the maintenance of an up-to-date and detailed register of subscribers
containing all the necessary technical and commercial data concerning
each subscriber;
the dissemination of information to customers concerning conditions
governing the use of telecommunications services, and the range of
services available;
the need to contact potential customers individually,  once the
initial high demand has begun to be absorbed;
programs of cut-offs once the planned recovery has been achieved,
administering  these  prudently  and  providing  all  necessary
information;
special monitoring of the ministries, since recovery rates are lowest
for these customers, and there is little scope for cutting off
service;
analyzing demand on the basis of precise surveys, with a view to
future investment;
improving and maintaining service quality (i.e., with respect to
the technical services);
legal disputes with customers owing large amounts of arrears;
procedures and measures relating to warnings, limitation of service
and even termination of service in the case of large-scale users such
as government agencies and government enterprises.
The following measures will also be necessary:
a study in cooperation with other agencies (the Rwandese Chamber of
Commerce and Industry, the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Commerce, etc.) in order to produce reliable
demand projections and also, at a more qualitative level, survey the
opinions of existing customers;
medium-term  action programs  in  the  following  areas:    public
relations, management of documentation, billing, new products and
services, technical and commercial activities, information systems,
etc.
All procedures will be formalized and issued in the form of staff
uides.
.4         Human Resource Management
The autonomy of the uSoci4te6 will be reflected in the followings



- 52 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 15
-     the establishment of personnel regulations defining a wage and salary
policy in line with development objectives;
-     hiring and career development policies and procedures to ensure that
the staff is qualified and motivated;
-     an accounts monitoring system for staff activities, enabling the
overall performance of the organization to be optimized and costs
to be calculated;
-     straightforward, timely and reliable personnel management;
-     a training policy.
Activities already undertaken with regard to telecommunications
personnel management (i.e. computerized personnel records) will be taken into
account. The human resource task will include the following items in particular:
-     definition and establishment of procedures for external hiring and
internal staff transfers;
-       ^management of wage and salary payments, automatically registered by
the computerized system.
3.5         The Management Information System
The information system must provide the enterprise's decision makers
with the tools for fuliilling their role.
It consists mainly of the preparation of performance charts enabling
the enterprise's position to be determined through the calculation of a number
of quantified management indicators.
In order to establish this system, the indicators will first be
defined jointly with the staff of DGT, after which reliable and values will be
calculated and validated.
On the basis of the DGT performance chart and the billing and
recovery balances drawn up each month, the consultants will decide what new
indicators will be necessary, and will formalize procedures for validating them.
Finally, the scope for shortening the time necessary for obtaining,
transmitting and validating such values will be studied, in order to ensure that
such times are compatible with those necessary for analyzing the figures and
preparing any action it may be necessary to take.
3.6         The Budget
It will be necessary to establish procedures to provide for a
complete budgeting cycle, including the necessary degree of discussion of
objectives and resources.



- 53 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 15
Because of scheduling, the establishment of these procedures will
begin while the "Soci4tew still has its current status (FY91), and will conclude
when its new legal status has already been established. Consequently, it will
be necessary to plan to make these tasks compatible with the preparation of the
annual budgets after the change of status.
Budget preparation will be divided into the following stages:
-     consolidation of available data;
-     study of the data thus gathered, and preparation of the preliminary
draft budget, to include the capital and current budgets, revenue,
and projected operating accounts;
-     discussion   of  draft  budget,   in  close   consultation  with
representatives of DGT and the various ministries concerned (i.e.,
Finance, Planning, Public Works and Energy, Foreign Affairs, etc.);
-     preparation of the final budget documents (both form and content)
for FY92, once these discussions are concluded;
-     monitoring of budget execution; the monitoring documents for the
various budgets must be subsequently drawn up in close cooperation
with the officials of the agency concerned and the accounting staff
(monitoring of commitments and payments, management report,
procurement, supplies, orders, etc.).
3.7         Accounting
3.7.1       General and Cost Accounting
Establishment of a complete and efficient accounting system must
take account of the following two basic considerations:
-     the field of telecommunications has certain very special features,
and these must be taken into account;
-     the transition of the telecommunications agency in Rwanda to the
status of an enterprise must be based on the recommendation of
organizational principles and management rules that are simple, but
that will show their short-term effectiveness.
For this task to be successful, implementation of the accounting
system must consist of the following three components.  It will sometimes be
possible to implement these simultaneously:
(a)   The analysis of needs and the validation of the accounting system
will include the following:
-     analysis of the budgetary context;



- 54 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 15
-     analysis of the contribution of the accounts to the auditing
system;
-     study of the Rwandese accounting system;
-     integration of the auditing system into the accounting system;
-     definition of modules for auxiliary accounts processes;
-     definition of the overall accounting system.
(b)   The consultant must also define how a system of cost accounting can
be established in order to determine the costs of support services,
the management of the vehicle pool and workshops, network
construction and maintenance services, buildings maintenance, storage
facility operation, equipment inventories, etc., and the costs of
customer services (these being necessary for determining tariffs).
(c)   The establishment of the accounting system can be subdivided into
the following items:
-     validation of information flows;
-     organization of accounting services;
-     formalization of procedures.
(d)   Analysis of the results of experiments, and generalization of these
results. It will be necessary for the consultants to:
-     analyze the results of the experiments;
-     carry out full-scale processing.
3.7.2       Asset Accounting
Asset accounting will consist of the management of inventories and
records of physical fixed assets, applying a depreciation policy and a breakdown
specifically adapted to the needs of telecommunications activities.
If necessary, the material will be computerized in cooperation with
DGT.
The establishment and input of the logs of inventories and fixed
assets will be performed by the local team, supervised by the consultants.
Establishment of the system of asset accounting will consist of a
phase in which the system is tested for reliability and procedures for
registering fixed assets are integrated.
As regards inventory management, it will be necessary to undertake
the following activities simultaneously:



- 55 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 11 of 15
preparation of statements of equipment flows;
alphabetical classification of levels of consumption, movements,
etc.;
personnel training;
organization (both physical and from the viewpoint of accounts) of
storage facilities.
The accounting of physical fixed assets will depend on the
maintenance of the register of fixed assets. This register will inventory such
assets, classified by item or by set of items, as appropriate, starting from
the time that they are first brought into operation, and following them
throughout their useful life, recording the dates of each event; i.e., current
fixed assets,  entry into service,  annual  depreciation,  withdrawals.   The
consultants must plan a system to provide for continuous revaluation, taking
account of currency devaluation and also obsolescence, and will determine the
depreciation rates appropriate for each type of fixed asset.
3.8         Security
This phase, in which existing arrangements are analyzed, must
supplement the 1988 study, and is to cover the whole territory.
The consultants will be required to:
-     define security regulations, the organization of exercises and the
various documents for monitoring the application of security
measures;
=     prepare a crisis plan covering major risks and ways of countering
them;
-     prepare a schedule for adopting security measures, together with a
budget for their implementation.
Because of the strategic nature of the telecommunications sector,
the iwandese authorities alone will be responsible for implementation of the
security plan.



- 56 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 12 of 15
B. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE STUDY OF
THE STRUCTURE AND TARIFF LEVELS OF THE
"SOCIETE D'ECONOMIE MIXTE DE TELECOMMUNICATIONS" (SEMT)
AND THE OREGIE DES POSTES"
1.          The purpose of the study is to determine the principles of a rational
telecommunications tariff structure in Rwanda and to start applying that
structure to subscribers in mid-1993.
2.          The guide to this structure is marginal cost tariff, subject to the
constraint that revenues must be sufficient to assure the financial viability
of the telecommunications company. The marginal cost, i.e., the marginal saving
to the economy if the marginal demand (telephone connection or additional type
of communications facility) is not met, has two facets:
(a)   cost of the service to the telecommunications company, when network
capacity is sufficient to meet demand;
(b)   cost to the user of not having the service, when network capacity
is insufficient.
The study should be based on cost accounting and estimated demand,
and completed by a financial analysis determining which revenues will be used
to assure the company's financial viability.
Cost accounting
3.          The object of this task is to calculate the marginal cost of the
principal telecommunications services offered, whether in Kigali, in a major
regional center or in a rural area, in respect of:
(a)   a telephone connection
(b)   a local call
(c)   an interurban call
(d)   an international call
(e)   a telex message or other service.
These costs will be estimated in 1990 francs.
4.          The information comes from:
(a)   the company's accounts
(b)   the technical operating records



- 57 -                       ANNEX 5
Page 13 of 15
(c)   samples to determine the marginal cost of certain services
(d)   possibly data from the company's other sources.
Demand study
5.          The purpose of this task is to determine the demand for each of the
telecommunications company's services as well as its price elasticity. It will
be necessary to identify existing demand, its profile being described by line
utilization curves during the day and during the days of the week, and potential
demand. Potential demand analysis is essential from two points of views (a)
to estimate the cost to present or potential users of not having the service,
in the event the demand is not fully met; and (b) to identify the least price-
elastic services, so that they can support that portion of the margin that covers
overhead and thus assaies the company's financial viability.
6.          An estimate of potential demand requires an exhaustive examination
of data concerning applications for a connection, rates charged for calls, the
number of uncompleted calls, etc. It also requires a sampling of existing and
potential users to estimate the demand for the different services and the price
that consumers would be willing to pay for them (or the losses or additional
costs they would incur if the services were not available).
Social or development-related considerations
7.          Social considerations require that the demand analysis give attention
to the possibility of charging specia'. rates for the telephone services used,
for example, by rural or poor customers, or for the use of public telephones.
Those rates would be lower than the charg- resulting from the marginal cost and
financial viability calculations. Such cross-suosidization is an effective means
of making those services accessible to consumer categories that would otherwise
be deprived of them.
Financial analysis
8.          The tariffs calculated for the different services (some based on
costs, others on demand) will be multiplied by the estimated volume of future
services to evaluate total revenues in 1992 and the next following five years.
These will be compared to cost projections, to determine the company's future
financial situation.
9.          The same procedure will need to be repeated several times in order
to arrive at a tariff structure compatible with the company's financial
viabiii4.



- 58 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 14 of 15
Final results
10.         The results of the study will be presented in the form of a set of
tariffs for the different servicest
(a)   connections and miscellaneous services can be evaluated at cost
or with a social reduction;
(b)   the price of subscription to the telephone or telex service should
cover the bulk of the fixed costs;
(c)   telephone calls, both local and interurban, will be taxed by length
of call, which is directly linked to the use of telephone exchange
equipment and transmission costs;
(d)   differences in taxation according to distance tend to become blurred,
since the cost of additional equipment becomes relatively
insignificant;
*e)   tariffs for international telephone calls are as established by
international agreement.
The study will also propose a method for future adjustments for
inflation.
Personnel
11.         The study will require six man-months of work from a team including
an economist, a financial analyst and an engineer, each with experience in
telecommunications, plus sampling personnel.



- 59-                           ANNEX 5
Page 15 of 15
C. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE STUDY OF
MOBILIZATION OF RESOURCES OF THE "SOCIETE
D'ECONOMIE MIXTE DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS' (SEMT)
1.          The consultants will prepare an analysis of the company's present
and projected working capital, highlighting the funds generated by operations,
which the company will need to retain to finance its investment program.
External financing will have to be obtained on commercial terms, at lowest the
terms applied to onlending of the IDA credit.
2.          The consultants will determine the best tariff policy to enable the
company to generate the necessary funds. If present tariffs are inadequate, they
will propose a suitable increase, compatible with government policy. If tariffs
are adequate, the consultants will propose ways of mobilizing additional
resources.
3.          The consultants will discuss the various methods of mobilizing
additional cash resources:   fiscal policy (customs duty,  income tax, value
added), earmarking of dividends, advance repayment of loans:
(a)   customs duty:  this is not a method to be recommended, since the
suppliers of the necessary telecommunications equipment almost never
compete with local manufacturers:
(b)   income tax:  this is calculated by applying a rate to income, after
amortization and before interest on the long-term debt;
(c)   value added tax:   this will mobilize resources as long as its
application does not affect tariffs paid by the consumers;
(d)   earmarking of dividends:   this is limited to a relatively small
percentage of the capital of the entities;
(e)   advance repayment of onlent loans; since the loans are negotiated
according to the Government's shortage of foreign exchange, the
company's self-financing rate may be too low; it can therefore make
extra local-currency repayments to the Government on the onlent
loans after commissioning of facilities.
The consultants will propose a plan to mobilize the company's
resources,  taking account of its tariff policy and present and projected
financial situation, and, if necessary, suggest amendments to Rwandese
legislation.
4.          Four man-months will be required for the consultants' mission.



- 60 -
ANNEX 6
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Organization Chart of MINITRANSCO
Ej    du JkO du I01     MIMITEM   TPANSPOATS UI COMUUNICATION
SECFITASR GENENAL
CRIMWWAPPROVIS.
IION      Y CONTENTWI
LiIi 1 ET EVALUATION
5~CS      CENT                    wui.f' r'MiuATt
IOTrP    l                                                  Aa  O  UTNO
LSFL     PFINAS           GE WNECTAE   |     i  MAINTENANIICE
FWWAOETP ION INATION
4 TlON    4      TI OIT                PORMS I t FU4ANCES
R PFOGRAMMES CHEOUKS
POTMU              S ET                  NFCRMAON  4    ,
,11W0CCOM                                ET CONTROLE  
ET¢ON     P STWToN                   ITt 4TTINN
U OONTROLE U awnE   Et
ET
RESEAUX DE
CAlS



- 61 -
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA                   ANNEX 7
SECOND COMKUNICATIONS PROJECT
_1                1
o                  t
04
W                     r  D        
-I
I.-
Ul_ o. LU         -- :'                Ci_        ~     J.        L



- 62 -
ANNEX 8
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Telecommunications Services: DescriPtion of the
Telecommunications Components of the Project
1.        The telecommunications components proposed for IDA financing are
part of DGT's 1989-1994 investment program. They have to be considered as
complementary investments to support maintenance and operations of the
network as well as to increase the reliability of the long distance domestic
network and provide for public telephones.
2.        The maintenance package has been extracted from the National
Maintenance Program established by ITU experts (UNDP financing). It includes
measuring equipment such as wheatston bridges, multimeters, PCM test
equipment, tools for cable networks, transmission and power equipment for
repairs, radio telephones, walkie-talkies and microcomputers. In addition,
the maintenance package provides for spares for standby power and p.c.b.'s
for electronic digital switching equipment, and also for lots of equipment
for the transmission, power and air-conditioning workshops.
3.        The public telephones component includes 170 coin boxes, 32 card-
phones for international calls and associated equipment and cards, and
telephone booths.   Specialized training will be provided by the supplier,
but public telephones will be installed by DGT/SEMT's own technicians.
4.        At  the  present  time,  the  overall  Rwandese  long-distance
transmission network is a star whose center is the relay station of Mt. Jari
(close to Kigali), and the overall traffic from the capital city of Kigali
and the rest of the country (and neighboring countries) is exclusively routed
through this station. To secure the digital network, in case of failure of
the strategic Mt. Jari station (lightning, etc.) 2 GHz, 34 mbit/sec (1+1
configuration) microwave routes will be established between Kirambo and
Gisenyi via Kalongi to link Cyangugu to Gisenyi, and between Gisenyi and
Ruhengeri via Mugogo  (see map).   The project  includes  the  supply of
transmission radio equipment, solar power in some relay stations, antennas,
towers, digital multiplex equipment, including installation training and
maintenance.
5.        It goes without saying that no effective maintenance of the network
can be performed without vehicles and at present DGT still operates with some
vehicles which are worn out and close to collapse. In the framework of the
National Maintenance Program prepared by ITU, the project includes six light
four-wheel vehicles, eleven heavy four-wheel vehicles, one truck, two light
trucks, five vans and ten motorbikes.
6.        Implementation  of  the  telecommunications  training  program,
established by consultants financed through a grant from FAC, requires the
rehabilitation of MINITRANSCO's training center and the supply of training
aids, equipment for the transmission lab, material for practical training
(installation, jointing, etc.), microcomputers, etc.
7.        Procurement of proprietary items for spares, transmission equipment
for the workshop and training lab, estimated to amount to about US$450,000,
will be directly purchased from the original suppliers.



- 63 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Postal Service: Description of the
Physical Components of the Postal Project
General
1.      The proposed postal project is the 1990-1994 Rwandese Postal Service
investment program.    Since DGP had no  resources  to  invest  in postal
facilities for the last 25 years, the postal network is in very poor
condition (buildings need heavy repairs or total reconstruction) and does
not match the new population distribution. Overall postal profitability is
highly related to network growth since operating facilities are the major
source of costs. Accordingly, all investments in operating facilities have
been planned carefully according to specific criteria:
(a) population density of the area;
(b) level of investment commensurate to potential revenues on a profit
center like basis; and
(c) level of investments tailored to present needs with a margin to
accommodate regular growth and a modular conception for future
extensions.
Existing Facilities at the Beginning of the Project
2.      Despite its small size, 29 retailing outlets, the Rwandese Postal
network occupies illegally 102 of its facilities, usually in administrative
buildings. Approximately 351 of post offices are recorded as unhealthy or
hazardous (e.g., old constructions not maintained). The rest of the network
(e.g., Kigali, main cities) does not offer enough windows which results in
a longer waiting lines for the customers.  Communities of 100,000 persons
have virtually no access to postal facilities: the closest post office is
often 30 to 50 miles away with no public transportation. The main sorting
center, located in the major post office of Kigali, is very small (less than
1,000 square feet), overcrowded and unhealthy. Lack of space for storage and
processing mail and parcels results in long delivery delays, mail losses,
etc. (see Table). Ko specific handling and cleaning equipment is available
which explains the important figures of sick leave days for staff operating
in this facility: e.g., back problems caused by heavy and repetitive manual
handlings, silicosis caused by accumulated dust in postal bags.



- 64 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
STORAGE AND PROCESSING CAPACITY
OF PRESENT SORtING CENTERS
----S wees per month----    --------4th wk-------- Maximum
per day
M  T  W  R  F  S  S    M T  W  R  F  S  S
NuMLr of incoinc
boas of " il *nd-
otehr lt s:
1 Fro ONATRACOM       26 26 26 26 26 2   -   26 26 26 26 26 26  -
(national courier)
26/d
2. Fro AIRPORT       38 6  636  4        U36   -   8 63  6  6    36 U   -
(international
couriors) 3O/d
3. Froo UGANDA:        -  -  -  - 200  -  -    -  -  -  - 200  -  -
200/week
4. Fro. Tanzani:       -  -  -  -  -  -  -    -  -  -  - 400  -  -
400/month
Total            62 62  262 262 62  -   62 62 62 62 62  -  -           662
Stora. capacity     100
Insuffile*nt torae     -  -  -  - 162 124 124   86 46 10  - 562 624 524    500
(,x. begs/day)
Proceesina capacity    100
Insufficint roeeessin                                                  0 to 100
(bigi/dy)
Source: MINITRANSCO/DGP
3.      However, the Postal Service in Rwanda shows profitable operations.
As such, it could finance most of its investments, even foreign imports since
the Post is a net earner of foreign currencies. (Indeed, terminal dues have
a positive balance which accounts for 202 of revenues).
Expansion Under the Proposed Project
4.      DGP's construction expenditures program for 1990-94 would include
the proposed project (RF 262 million) and provision for future investments
(RE 20 million).   The proposed project will increase by 50Z the number of
retail facilities in areas where obvious needs are shown by customers:
(a) five major cities where post offices are in very bad condition but
generate important revenues (RI 0.5 to 3 million) and have to be
reconstructed (Cyangugu, Nyabisindu, Kibungo, Rwamagana, Byumba);



- 65 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
(b) seven important market places of dense population (60,000 to 80,000
inhabitants), over 25 miles away from the nearest post office and
showing a potential "postal consumption' per inhabitant above the
national average (Busoro, Ngorero, Munini, Ngenda, Busengo, Bugarama,
Ruhashya);
(c) in the capital city where the population has increased ten fold and
requires new accesses to postal services:   four new stations and
three additional windows will be available following project
completion;
(d) in addition, with an objective to improve the quality of service and
reduce waiting lines at windows, five important post offices (Kigali,
Butare, Gisenyi, Ruhengeri, Gitarama) plus the main post office of
Kigali will be rehabilitated.   All these post offices will be
outfitted with appropriate basic window equipment to allow fast and
reliable operations, e.g., P.O. boxes for customers, safes for
valuable deposits, scales for weighing mail and eventually
microcomputers for accounting or commercial purposes.
The new postal network will then offer over 100 retail windows to the
Rwandese population and projections show that this enhanced network can
accommodate a growth rate of posted traffic averaging 3Z per annum.
5.      Also the project will significantly improve the overall quality
of service in mail processing and as a result mail delivery delays will be
shortened (see Annex 3). The construction of a new sorting center of 3,000
square feet with sufficient storage areas for present and future mail traffic
will allow same day delivery in Kigali and next day delivery in other main
cities.  Handling equipment will dramatically improve the productivity of
mail processing (from 100 to over 150 bags per day). The new mail sorting
and conveying system will address the services requested by customers:
(a) door-to-door collection and delivery for large customers generating
important revenues;
(b) Express mail services door-to-door with possible pick-up on calls;
(c) same day mail processing of all incoming mail which will mean, inter
alia, improvement of delivery delays for one to two days on many
routes (see new targets in delivery delays, Annex 3).



a                                                                                                                       22                          
W                    ..  .. ..  ..  . ..  ..  .. ..  .  .. ..  .. ..  . ..     . ..  ..  . ..  ..  .. ..  .  .. ..  ..  ..  . ..  ..  .. ..  .  .. ..  ..--            -     - --    - -   -   - -   -- -    
rz~                                                                                                                                       z:
-A 
0      80.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0~                                                                                                           
-1                                                         : ~~~~-'   -,   o.                                                    -         .                                         3 
U                                                                         3                                                                  -------
(a  W            - I                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~I A !I                                                                                    I                               - u
I-           W                                                                                          ---    - --                                             ,
'- ""I                                             '-5 .o..,,-
0I03'4                                           I                                                             PW v                        -
-4  -  n=-                Z           -W ,                                      W   .0                                                                                            9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30-  S.D ~ 00
o  Ii                                  2!: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~aI  Z    I I 
..........................................-..                                                                                                               o  ........
z                                                                                          --------------, 0 ~ .   ------- ------- ------- ------- -------             .. .     ..... ....    ..   4C4
I                     0,1 ~~~~~~~                                                       I I "  i-i~~~~~Zi
W    -    *-0                                                                                          n!~~~~~~~1~.01'                               4   -
t,                                                               in -.                      3, 
3..                                                         -                   I              -                    C.C             C           
o  .E  1 2             _                                       '                  g   g                                           I    I ~~~~~~    -~~ t
.. . .. . .
-m-- - -     -- - - - - -      -- - - - - - - - - - -- -               -  - - - - - - - -                           ----- -- -- - -- -- -          -   -- - - -
133.                                                                            kv. U    .          43. ... 3.a
I.  3'n.~~~~  -      0   .~~~~=0We               -         C~i       =,     S.-
2~~~    5 It ~ ~                                                                     eu     aAn
m~ ~   ~                                                                 uW rs                 am    a'       U                             U 
~~  *:..j~~~0                              :~~~~~O     C                                                  



^                              6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"ilMI. °W ^ 1v  !:-t^-*    ine- VoO g  l"                    -a|         ............
z  o~~~~~~~I                 CM        e      29fi; 0                            o e .iit8e{j °>|o]fn 
v o _w"_ _ wo 5 O e";tooo_ 8 "" o "Ws                    Cl i0                                          040°   CD
_..............,_____________   _...... _  _____     *    .....-._._.!.. _-.. .
A az  * "0 rtSt"brz R I " ' ~~~~~~ ', n°2N-; o I t; z j MN0 X _ ° soO ,~~~~-
S1   e >   O  em_Nr   l       t  1|_2;e4  s*   it Fs ¢    |           t  5_3ef7};2         .   o  ___  *¢ .~~~~~~~~~~0
,    l    S r   sF    e !   j-000°66 zn 42  S  ! *J   ! !                                               o o o .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-
N ol¢ <¢ |  5to°s~ i  0 °0 ~~ ,-Xoo-- ;1 0a }- f; § o| "i <~i *i §  e5ooo  _ 
|  ;1§  < 1 1°"°°-°--e1"1 o"°°~ens^!-i<cmI o°>l -ooo 
>lio~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                                             40    cm _z> 45ii;S°°on-X t i}">"  .-o!
z   t               @ l-l o;ooo o... ................................... ......................  ........
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   _c;5o                                 ..       .. .. ..... .. _....._.5.'._._....
j0                                                                     O"S-§a  Z MM '" 4 2    |R>!E  !



- 68 -
ANNEX 12
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA                                 Cumulative          Bank's Profiles
FY/Semester        Disbursements        through        All Sectors   Telecom.
Ending            in Semester         Semester b/    in Africa    Worldwide
FY91
June 30, 1991            0.5 a/            0.5              0.1           0.1
FY92
Dec. 31, 1991            1.0               1.5              0.6           0.3
June 30, 1992            1.8               3.3              1.5           0.9
FY93
Dec. 31, 1992            2.2               5.5              2.3           1.8
June 30, 1993            3.3               8.8              3.4           2.8
FY94
Dec. 31, 1993            1.8              10.6               4.5          4.0
June 30, 1994            1.2              11.8              5.6           5.3
FY95
Dec. 31, 1994            0.7              12.5              6.8           6.6
June 30. 1995            0.3              12.8              8.3           8.3
FY96
Dec. 31, 1995                                               9.0           9.0
June 30, 1996                                               9.9          10.0
FY97
Dec. 31, 1996                                              10.6          10.7
June 30, 1997                                              11.3          11.3
FY98
Dec. 31, 1997                                              12.0          12.0
June 30, 1998                                              12.3          12.3
FY99
Dec. 31, 1998                                              12.7          12.7
June 30, 1999                                              12.8          12.8
a/ Includes disbursements under PPF
b/ Disbursemeat profile in accordance with physical implementation schedule.



- 69 -                            ANNEX 13
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Performance Indicators
A set of indicators which would assist in the monitoring of the
Regie's and SEHT's performances during the project period has been
established. Both new entities will be asked to report on the actual as well
as on the projected achievement related to the performance indicators.
I. Postal Services
(RF '000)                              1992      1993       1994       1995
Postage sales, domestic                58.3       78.6      79.3        80.1
Postage sales, international          111.0      133.4     137.4       141.6
Express mail service                   23.6       26.0      28.4        30.4
Public facsimiles                       3.2        3.6       3.9         4.0
Operating ratio                        90.OZ      90.0Z     90.0Z       90.0O
II. Telecommunications Services
1992      1993       1994       1995
Total mid-year DELs                   13,250    14,750    16,250       17,750
Mid-year Telecom. staff
per 1000 DELs                           40         38         35         35
Service Quality:
* Completion rates:  local               55Z        602       65Z         70Z
STD                602       652        65Z         652
ISD                302       402        452         50Z
* Z of faults cleared in 48 hrs.         502        602       702         80Z
* fault rate per DEL                     0.5        0.5       0.5         0.5
Telephone operating revenue/DEL          195        196        195        185
Total operating expenditure/DEL          130        135        141        139
Private and Government arrears        3 mos.    3 mos.    3 mos.       3 mos.
Rate of return on net
revaluated assets                      142        102       102         1OZ



- 70 -
ANNEX 14
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Staff
Dates               Activity                             Skill            Input
5-1991    Peview of implementation of institutional   Telecom Eng.    5.0
and training programs by consultant         Fin. Analyst
and recruitment of key personnel            Postal Cons.
9-1991    Same, preparation of tender documents          Same            5.0
of the project and progress reporting
1-1992    Same and review of bidding process             Same            5.0
7-1992    Mid-term review of progress made in           Same             7.0
creation of new entities for post and
telecommunication and setting up their
organization in recruitment, placement
and performance of key staff, and in
procurement of equipment
1-1993    Supervision of project implementation,        Same             5.0
institutional component, and
compliance with covenants
7-1993    Supervision of project implementation         Same             5.0
institutional component, and
compliance with covenants
1-1994    Supervision of project implementation         Same             5.0
institutional component, and
compliance with covenants
7-1994    Supervision of project implementation         Same             5.0
institutional component, and
compliance with covenants
1-1995    Supervision of project implementation         Same             5.0
institutional component, and
compliance with covenants
7-1995    Supervision of project implementation         Same             5.0
institutional component, and
compliance with covenants
1-1996    Supervision of project implementation         Same             5.0
institutional component, and
compliance with covenants
6-1996    Final supervision and preparation             Same             5.0
of PCR



- 71 -                            ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Assumptions Used in the
Financial Projections for Telecommunications
New DELs. The number of DELs would increase by 182 in 1990 and 152
in 1991, the rate falling off thereafter; there would be 1,500 new DELs each
year from 1992 to 1995 and 2,250 from 1996 to 1999, following construction
under a future project.
Revenue. Telephone revenue rose by 40Z and 282 in 1988 and 1989,
respectively, 22Z and 132 from an increase in the number of lines, and 15Z
and 132 from growth in average line traffic.   Through 1999, increases in
telephone revenue will result from additional lines and changes in average
tratfic per line. These changes are estimated to be 52 for 1990, OX for 1991
and -52 subsequently, reflecting the entry into the network of small
consumers.
Following an 182 reduction in telex receipts on billings in 1988
and 92 in 1989, projections (billings and booths) show a decline of 5Z in
1991 and 32 from 1992 to 1999. Telegraph revenue would fall by 52 from 1992
to 1999.
Growth in revenue from telephone booths is based on the addition of
20 new booths in 1992 to the existing 28 P&T booths and 20 street booths,
plus the constructior. of 50 booths in 1991 and 250 booths in 1992.
Internal use of telephone services fell considerably in 1988 and
1989, owing to the separation of DGT accounts from those of other MINITRANSCO
departments, including DGP.  As internal consumption can be controlled at
DGT, its level should remain moderate over the next 10 years.
Installation fees would increase by 102 annually in real terms.
Charges. The personnel expenditures increased in 1989 by about 72
following the recruitment of new personnel; it is expected to rise in real
terms by 102 in 1990 and 1991, in anticipation of the establishment of the
company,  then at 22.   The establishment of the company should make it
possible to cut personnel, but, for the sake of prudence, personnel
expenditure projections were not reduced on that score.
The negative balance for international communications is expected
to increase at the same rate as billing. The increase in 'other services"
would reflect moderate growth in internal consumption by DGT.
Annual depreciation of fixed assets is 7.252.



- 72 -                            ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 5
Following progress in telephc.ae billing and receivables, bad debts
are expected to fall to 8Z in 1991, and 62 thereafter.   It was agreed at
negotiations that establishment of the company will help keep arrears at less
than three months of billings. Monitoring of payments by private consumers
helped reduce arrears to a highly satisfactory level by the end of 1989, of
more than one month of consumption for the two categories of residential and
professional customers. However, arrears stand at 7 months for parastatal
enterprises and 20 months for the State. With DGT's efforts to reduce the
debt of the State and parastatals, arrears can be expected to average two
months as of 1991.
The tax rate is 50Z on the earnings of DGT or of the future company.
In order to reduce the cash surplus, a payment will be made from the cash
reserves of the entity which, in the specific case of the projection, would
reduce the amount to be carried forward on the balance sheet to zero.
Tariffs. New tariffs as of May 1, 1990 introduced time-based rates
for local consumption.   The impact was estimated at 8Z for a full year.
Devaluation (para. 1.04) will be responsible for increases of internatioanl
tariffs of 66.71, partly in 1990, fully in 1991. To counter the effects of
local inflation, increases of 10 are expected in 1994, which will maintain
the rate of return on the revalued net fixed assets at over 1OZ. The rate
increases would nevertheless be far below inflation (56Z compared to 1172
over the period - para. 4.08).
Investments and borrowings. The financing of the investment program
formulated by DGT was discussed by DGT and the donors. However, as the loan
conditions for external financing are too soft for a profit-making commercial
activity, the financial projections assume the loans are onlent on commercial
conditions (7.72Z rate of interest and reimbursement in 15 years, including
5 years' grace), with the exchange risk being borne by the borrower.
Moreover, since borrowings finance at least all of the foreign
exchange component of investments (nearly 901 of the total), the self-
financing capacity of DGT may not be fully used, given the projected results
of operation. A mechanism for accelerated reimbursement to the Government
(equivalent to immediate repayment of a portion of the loan by the company)
of foreign exchange loans was agreed for the IDA Credit (para. 4.12) and a
provision for repayment of about RF 700 million from 1994 to 1999 is made in
the financial projections.
Because of the 1990 devaluation, interest and reimbursements on
foreign loans contracted before 1990 will be greater and the projection
includes an estimated inflation correction to increase the debt service, by
401 in 1991 and 1992, 25Z in 1993 and 1994, 15? in 1995 and 1996, 1OZ in 1997
and 1998, and 5Z in 1999.



- 73 -                                              ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 5
D         I R E C T I 011   6 E N E R A L E   D E S   T E L E C 01 NN U N I C A T I 01 NS   D U   R 1 A ND  A
8 A S I C  D A T A                                                     
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   1997   1998   1999
General data
Inflation rates              4.21    5.01    5.01   14.01   28.01   12.01    5.01    4.01    4.02    4.0Z    4.0?   4.01   4.0Z
1.14    1.46    1.63    1.72    1.78    1.86    1.93    2.01    2.09    2.17
Physical data
Telephone
Nb of subscribers: and yr         5200
lb of lines: end year     6705    8170    9212   10870   12500   14000   15S00   17000  18500   20750   23Q00   25250  27500
Nb of liness nid year             7438    8691   10041   11685   13250   14750   16250   17750   19625  21875  24125   26375
Tarifs
Teleohone
International IRwF/uin):343 Delg,Fr,keth; 400 oth.Eur;  +66. 7n 
In ern                     ~~~~~~410 America
Intercity MvF/min)          40      40      40      40      40      40      40 iO2   --------------------------------------
Local     iRwF)   illinited:10 1.5.99: 101 3in--------------…-----------------1
1O/tr2ni -----    …------------------…--
I NC 0 NE  S T A T E 1 E N T S
(RF million)
;-- pro ections--    ----                                       ---
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   1W7    1998   I9
Revenues
Telephone, invoiced        570.4   805.5  1038.7  1398.2  2204.5  2529.2  2674.8  3079.4  3195.4  3356.3  3554.1  3723.6  3867.4
Telex, invoiced            176.4   145.0   131.5   124.9   119.7   115.1   111.7   106.3  105.1  101.9    98.9   95.9    93.0
Tele raph & misc.           55.0    46.2    41.6    37.4    35.6   33.9    32.1    30.5   29.0   27.5   26.1   24.8    23.6
Telephon-                 22.5    24.8    26.7    '3.8   37.5    52.4    73.4    92.5   97.1  102.0  107.1   112.5   118.1
Telex                     16.7    15.0    14.3    13.6    12.9    12.5    12.1    11.8    11.4    11.1   10.7    10.4    10.1
DST self consumotion        30.5   25.0    15.0    17.1   21.9   24.5    25.7    26.8   27.8   29.0    30.1    31.3    32.6
Connexion fees 1 oth.        7.5    10.0    13.9    17.4   24.5    30.2    34.9   40.0   45.7   52.3    59.9   68.4    78.3
Total                  879.0  1071.5  1281.7  1642.4  2455.5  2797.8  2964.7  3389.2  3511.6  3680.1  3986.8  4067.0  4223.0
Charges
Supplies                    47.4    52.1    57.4  7J.0   95.8   114.8  M2.0  143.6   159.8  177.8   197.8  220.1   245.0
International communicat.  86.1   121.6  156.8  205.8  332.1   357.7   378..  435.6  452.0  474.7  502.7  526.7   547.0
Other services              49.3    53.7    49.0    59.8    81.9   98.2   110.3   122.7  136.6  152.0  169.1   188.2  209.4
Personnel                  104.7   106.9   114.3  143.3   201.8  230.5  246.9   261.9  277.8   294.7   312.6  331.6  351.8
Depreciation               162.7  276.0  326.9  419.2  587.6  759.3  952.3  1126.6  1231.7  1340.2  1460.3  1589.0  1722.8
Bad debts                  112.6   125.6   126.7   162.5  I.7   164i.4  176.3  201.7  209.0  219.1  231.4  242.1  25i.4
General Secretariat         11.6   11.8    12.1    10.0       6.0     0.0
Total                  574.4   747.6   843.0  1070.6  149.9  1726.9  1993.1  2292.1  2466.8  2658.4  2874.0  3097.7  3327.4
Income
Operations                 304.6  323.9   438.7  571.8  955.7  1070.9   971.6  1097.1  1044.7  1021.7  1012.9  969.2  895.6
less: taxes                                                392.8  415.9   323.7  362.1   334.9  333.0  335.3  319.8   290.6
levy                                                 392.8  415.8  323.7  264.5   93.2          0.0    54.6  238.1  290.6
inter. o/loans        70.1    74.1    87.5   119.0   170.0  239.3   324.2   373.0  375.1  355.6  342.2  329.5   314.4
Income to ret. earn.       234.5   249.7   351.2  452.9      0.0    0.0       0.0    97.6   241.6  333.0   280.7    81.7      0.0
Rate of return                      11.7?   14.11   14.81   10.12   16.61   12.31   12.12   11.52   11.41   11.5Z   11.21   10.91
Teleph. rev./I. (id yr)s kRlF      111.6   122.6   142.6   191.9  194.9 86f.3   195.2   185.5  176.2   167.4  159.0   151.1



-74-                                                  ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 5
FUIIDS FLOY 9tAtEIIEIITS
(Rf million)
17    1999   1999   1990   1991   IM         1993   1994   1995   199    1997   1998   19
Internal generated funds
Operating incom                323.9  433.7  571.9  955.7  1070.9  971.6 1097.1  1044.7  1021.7  1012.9  969.2  85
Dpreciation                    276.0  326.9  419.2  587.4  759.3  952.3  1126.t 1231.7 1340.2  1440.3  15B9.0  1722.8
Total cash flow              599.9  765.5  991.0  1543.3  1930.2  1923.9  2223.7 2276.5 2341.9 2473.2  2559.2 2419.4 8512.1
Loag tere borrowing              174.9  450.0  683.5  948.0  1495.0  2004.0  431.5  135.0  222.0  240.0  225.0  180.0 4562.0
1uosidies, FAC                            17.0           24.0   33.0    6.0                                                   U3.0
Total sources                    774.8  1432.5  17t4.5  2515.3  3358.2 2933.9  2455.2 2411.5 2583.9  2713.2 2783.2 279a4
Applications
Debt service
Amrtization                    123.7   97.6  217.0  310.1  329.4  291.4  297.4  521.9  536.5  500.9  500.9  474.6
Interest                        74.1   97.5  119.0  170.0  239.3  324.2  373.0  375.1  355.6  342.2  329.5  314.4
Inflation correction                                  192.1  227.1  244.2  264.1  359.9  356.9  337.2  332.1  315.6
Sped up amortization                                                         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  250.0
Total                         197.9 185.1  334.0  472.2   794.9   9t4.9  1024.5  1355.9  1349.0  1220.2  1262.5  1354.4  36B9.3
C*mstruction expnd.                                                                                                        SUII/90-9
Csitchinen                                      34.0  193.0  277.0  282.0  129.0                                           ff.0
Local netlorks                                 101.0  161.0  176.0  192.0  126.0                                           744.0
Transmission                                    48.0  191.0  314.0  194.0   26.0                                           765.0
Earth station                          315.0  315.0   50.0                                                                 365.0
Rural telephony                        120.0  120.0  292.0  396.0  310.0  125.0                                           1233.0
UIK conexions                          50.0   63.0   67.0   17.0                                                          147.0
Various eqipt                                          53.0  296.0   74.0                                                  425.0
Eagin. & tmhn. ss.                      16.5          171.0  221.0  112.0   48.0                                           552.0
T.ele  (previws)               165.4  165.4   35.9                                                                          35.9
Invnstmnt budget               200.0  121.0  131.0  122.0  135.0  143.0  150.0  150.0  150.0  140.0  170.0   10.0  6481.0
Future project                                                               450.0  450.0  740.0  900.0  750.0  600.0  450.0
Total                        365.4  797.9  947.9  1270.0 132.0  1301       54.0  400.0  890.0  940.0  920.0  790.0 6304.9
3819.0
Other disburuments
Taes                                            0.0  392.9  415.0  323.7  362.1  334.9  333.0  335.3  319.9  290.6
Levy                                             0.0  392.9  415.9  323.7  244.5   93.2    0.0   54.6  239.1  290.6
Total                                          0.0  795.6  931.6  647.4  626.5  429.0  333.0  389.9  55B.0  581.2  2991.2
Increase in working capital      212.2  110.2  -80.5   -6.6   48.9   17.1   58.7    7.2   13.7   19.7   12.7    7.0   37.4
Total applications               7M.4  I03.2  1103.3 2721.2 3507.2  2927.5 2763.9 2391.1  2595.7  264B.9  2753.2 2722.9
Cash surplus                       1.4  349.3  571.2  -205.9 -149.0  106.5 -IO.5   20.4   -1.9    44.    30.0   75.6  214.2



- 75 -                                            ANNEX 15
Page 5 of 5
B ALAN CE SHMEETS
(R|F L illion)
1987    1988    1989    1990   1991   1992    1993    1994   1995   1996    1997    1998    1999
:Assets
Gross fixed assets
LadJ & buildinos         263.5
Complex instal it.      2948.3
Technic. equipment        88.0
Vehicles                 136.8
Intangibles               13.4
Total                 3450.0  4164.2  4852.4  6710.9  949.7 11447.4 14823.1 16256.5 17722.8 19247.7 21037.6 22797.1 24729.0
Depreciation            f83.0  1203.2  1590.2  2232.0  3444.6  4617.2  5800.4  7159.1  8677.2 10364.4 12239.4 14317.9 16613.5
%Net fixed assets         2567.0  2961.0  3262.3  4479.9  6055.1  6630.1  9022.7  9097.5  9045.6  8883.3  8798.2  8479.2  8115.5
'Marks in progress         546.2  383.1  702.7  448.5  920.5  1990.5  556.5  786.5  586.5  676.5  636.5  656.5  436.5
Other long t. assets
Shares                   70.8   70.8   70.8   70.8   70.8   70.8   70.8    70.9   70.9   70.8    70.8   70.9   70.8
Loans to staff             9.9    8.9      8.9     8.9    8.9    8.9       9.9     8.9    9.9    9.9      8.9     8.9      8.9
Total                   79.7   79.7   79.7    79.7   79.7   79.7   79.7   79.7   79.7   79.7   79.7    79.?   79.7
:Lurrent assets
Inventory                 8.1    13.0    14.3    17.5   24.0   28.7   32.3   35.9   39.9   44.4    49.5    55.0   61.2
Receivables              148.9  365.0  483.6   410.6  409.3  466.3  494.1  564.9  585.3  613.3  647.8   677.E   703.8
Foreign debtors           22.6   24.9   27.3   30.1   33.1   36.4   40.0   44.0   48.4   53.3   58.6    64.5   70.9
Governeent
Other debtors
Total                  179.6  402.9  525.3   459.2  466.3  531.4  566.4  644.8  673.6  711.1  755.9  797.3  936.0
Cash & banks                        1.4  350.7  921.9  716.0  566.9  673.4  564.9  585.3  583.4  647.8   677.8  753.4
Total assets             3372.5  3828.t 4920.6  6387.2  8237.6  9998.7 10898.7 11173.3 10970.7 10934.0 10918.1 10690.5 10221.2
Uabilities
Equity
Caital & subsidies      1295.0  1295.0  1312.0  1312.0  1336.0  1369.0  1375.0  1375.0  1375.0  1375.0  1375.0  1375.0  1375.0
R& ained earnings         16.2  265.9  617.1  1069.9  1069.9  1069.9  1069.9  1167.5  1409.1  1742.2  2022.9  2104.6  2104.6
Revaluation reserve              141.6  301.3  935.2  2201.0  2973.3  3383.2  3760.6  4140.5  4518.3  4993.7  5263.6  5622.8
Total                 1311.2  1702.5  2230.5  3217.1  4606.9  5412.3  5929.2  6303.1  o924.7  7635.5  8291.6  8743.2  9102.4
Long tern debt
Foreign lenders         1941.5  1994.7  2547.1  3013.6  3651.5  4818.0  5530.6  5674.7  52B7.8 4973.2  4712.4  446.6  4142.0
Government (personnel)    8.9    89.9     9.9      9.9    8.9       9     8 9     8.9    9.9    e.9       8.9     9.9     8.9
Inflation correction cue.                              -192.1  -419.1  -665.4  -929.5 -1288.3 -1645.2 -1982.4 -2314.5 -2630.1
Sped up amortization                                                           -100.0  -200.0  -300.0  -400.0  -500.0  -750.0
1950.4  2003.6  2556.0  3022.5  3469.3  4407.9  4874.1  4654.1  3808.3  3037.0  2338.9  1630.9  770.7
Current li;bilities
Suppliers                 7.5
Advances from custom.      1.3
Foreign creditors        88.2
others                    13.9
Total                  110.9   122.0   134.2   147.6  162.4  178.6   196.5  216.1  237.7  261.5  287.6  316.4  348.1
Total liabilities        3372.5  3828.1  4920.6  6397.2  9237.6  9998.7 10998.7 11173.3 10970.7 10934.0 10919.1 10690.5 10221.2
Total assets - liabilit.    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0
Debt equity ratio            601    54%      53Z     485    431    45Z       461     421    35?    28Z       22%     161      9t



- 76 -                            ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Assumptions Used in the
Financial Proiections for Postal Services
Traffic.    Postage  of  letters  and  packages  by  domestic  and
international service is expected to increase annually by 1% and 3%,
respectively.
The number of rented P.O. boxes would increase by 400 in 1989 and
1990, 1,200 in 1991, 700 in 1992 and 100 in subsequent years.
The volume of money orders would increase by 2% annually and that
of postal checking account operations by 1% per year.
Tariffs. International postage tariffs would increase to the full
extent of the devaluation (66.7%) from November 10, 1990 on. Postage rates
would increase in 1992 by 50% for domestic mail, and all other services
(rental boxes, money orders and postal checking accounts). Other increases
would be 33% and 17% for domestic and international mail respectively in
1993, and 20% for both in 1996, for domestic and international mail only,
in order to maintain the operating ratio below 90%.
Other revenues. Revenue from express mail would quintuple from 1988
to 1999, at an average annual rate of 16%. Receipts from public telefaxes
would increase eightfold from 1988 to 1999, averaging 20% per annum.
Charges. Supplies and services would increase by 15% annually in
real terms from 1990 to 1992, owing in particular to an expansion of the
automotive fleet, and 3% in subsequent years. Mail transport would double
from 1987 to 1992, following an increase in service, and increase by 3% per
annum in real terms thereafter.
The personnel expenditures for operating staff would increase by
10% in 1990 and 25% in 1991, at the time of the establishment of the
commercial entity, and by 5% in 1992, 3% in 1993 and 2% in subsequent years.
The personnel expenditures for administrative staff would increase 15% in
1990, following recruitments, 30% in 1991, at the time of establishment of
the commercial entity, 5% in 1992, 3% in 1993 and 1% ir subsequent years.
An increase in personnel expenditures that does not keep pace with inflation
suggests that a plan to pare personnel is needed, the first step bein3 not
to replace those who retire.
The rate for fired asset depre:iatior would increase and stabilize
aL 6% as of 1991.
Dividends. A dividend, calculated as a 50 tax on profiLs, would
be applied as of 1991.



- 77 -                                                     ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 5
Investments and borrowings. The financing of the investment program
formulated by DGP was discussed between DGP and IDA.   The projections
included a loan onlent by the State at a 42 interest rate, with repayment in
20 years including a five-year grace period, absorbed by the operating
results of the postal service. Nevertheless, in order to mitigate the cash
flow difficulties faced by the postal entity, a State subsidy of RF 150
million per year would be needed in 1991 and 1Q92.
DIRECTIOIN 6EINERALE  DE LA POSTE  IU RIIAINDA
BASIC DATA
1967    1988    1989    1990    1991    Im            1993    1M        199V      1996    1997    1998    1999
Io ral
Inflation rats                          5.0Z    5.02   14.02   28.02   12.0Z         5.02    4.02    4.02    4.0Z         4.0Z    4.02      .0Z
hantitin
Postat oslst satlomal    3.7    3.74    3.77    3.91    3.95    3.99    3.93    3.97    4.01    4.05    4.09    4.13    4.17
Ul itss)   I loternat  0.814    0.83    0.S5    0.97    0.90    0.93    0.95    0.99    1.01    1.04                   1.07    1.10    1.14
Postal boxas, rntal (a   3790    4500    4oo             5300    6500    72C0    7300    7400    7S00    7600    7700    7800    7900
Fin. csv. I may order  20600   20600   21012   21432   21861   22299   22744   23199   23663   24136   24619   25111   25614
(nb)   I post  sects   20200   40200   40602   41008   41418   41832   42251   42673   43100   43531   43966   44406   44850
Tariffs
POstAQu ulssinatioaal  10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   15.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   24.00   24.00   24.00   24.00
RFI        I lnternat  70.00   70.00   70.00   70.00  120.00  120.00  140.00  140.00  140.00  168.00  168.00  168.00  168.00
Postal boxn, rmotal (Ru   1500    1500    1500           1500    1500    2250    2250    2250    2250    2250    2250    2250    2250
Fin. swv.1 many order           50       50       50       50       75   112.5   112.5   112.5   112.5   112.5   112.5   112.5   112.5
(RuFl  I post accts          7        7        7         7        9    13.5    13.5    13.5    13.5    13.5    13.5    13.5    13.5



- 78 -                                              ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 5
I1COME  STATEMENTS
(REF million)
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992   1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1999    1999
Revenues
Postage sales  national   37.0   37.4   37.7    38.1    38.5   58.3   78.6   79.3    80.1   97.1   98.1   99.1   100.1
internat   57.0    58.1   59.3    61.1   107.8  111.0  133.4  137.4   141.6  175.0  180.2  185.6  191.2
Terminal dues             27.9   25.0   25.0    25.0    31.0   33.7   34.3   34.6    35.0   35.3   35.6   35.9   36.2
Express sail service       0.0     5.4    10.0    13.0    19.1   23.6   26.0   28.4    30.4    31.9   33.2   34.5   35.9
Public fax                 0.0     0.5     1.5     2.0     2.7    3.2    3.6  -- 3.9       4.0      4.2     1.4     4.5     4.7
Fin. serv.: soney order    1.0     1.0     1.1     1.1      1.6    2.5    2.6      2.6     2.7      2.7     2.8    2.9      2.9
(taxes)  i post accts    0.1      0.3     0.3     0.3     0.4    0.6    0.6       0.6     0.6     0.6     0.6    0.6      0.6
Postal boxes rental        5.7     6.9     7.4     8.0     9.8   16.2   16.4   16.7    16.9    17.1    17.3   17.6    17.8
Taxes lserv.  on packag    3.3     3.3     3.4     3.7     4.5    4.9    4.9    4.9        4.9      4.9     4.9    4.9      4.9
iscellaneous, incl. ph    1.2      1.6     1.9     2.1     2.7    3.1      3.4     3.6     3.9      4.2     4.5     4.8     5.1
Miscellaneous, mci. p..  ___ __ _     _       _                               _       _       _       _       _        _
Total                133.1   139.3  147.4   154.2  219.2  257.2   30.7   312.1   320.0  373.0  381.5  390.3  399.4
Charges
Supplies & services       16.3    17.1   17.1    22.4   33.0   42.5   46.0   49.3    52.9    56.6   60.6   64.9    69.5
Mail transportation        9.9    10.3    11.0    15.0    18.0   20.8   22.5   24.1    25.8    27.6   29.6    31.7   33.9
Stamp purchases            6.5     7.0     7.6     8.3   10.7   12.0   12.6   i3.1    13.6   14.1   14.7   15.3   15.9
Personnel: direct         52.5    52.5   52.5    57.8   72.2   84.9   87.4   98.1   98.9    89.7   90.5   91.3   92.1
administrati   17.0   17.0   17.0    19.6   25.4   29.9   30.8   30.7    30.7    30.6   30.6   30.5   30.5
Depreciation               1.2     1.4     1.5     3.3     7.6   31.0   58.1   65.6   72.8    80.3   88.1   96.2  106.2
Total                102.4   105.4   106.7   126.4  166.9   221.0  257.3  270.8   284.5   298.8   313.9  329.8  348.0
Income
Operations                30.7    34.0   40.8    27.8    51.3   36.2   46.5    41.3    35.5   74.1    67.6   60.5   51.4
Income taxes
Dividends                                                 25.7   18.1   23.2   20.6    17.8    37.1    33.8   30.2   25.7
Interest on loans                  0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0
To retained earnings      30.7    34.0   40.8    27.8   25.7   19.1   23.2   20.6    17.9   37.1    33.9   30.2   25.7
Rate of return                    50.41   58.81   37.81   46.4Z    7.6T    5.31    4.41    3.6A    7.2X    6.41    5.61    4.5Z
Opcrating ratio           76.91   75.61   72.41   82.01   76.5Z   85.91  84.7Z   86.82   88.91   80.11   82.31   84.51   97.11



79-                                            ANNEX  16
Page 4 of 5
F U N D S  FLO 1  ST ATE NE N TS
IRnF million)
1987   198    19 19    1990   1991   1992   1993   194    195   1996   1997   19            1999
Swrces
Operating incoe                34.0   40.8   27.8   51.3   36.2   46.5   41.3   3S.5   74.1   U7.6   60.5   51.4
bpr ciation                     1.4    1.5    3.3    7.6   31.0   58.1   65.6   72.8   90.3   18.1   96.2  106.2
Total cash flow              35.4   42.3   31.1   58.9   67.   104.I   106.8  106.3  154.4  155.6  156.7  157.5  3U8.6
Lug tem borrowing                                0.0  116.0  272.0  181.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  576.0
it. subsidy                                               75     75                                                         150.0
Total surcs                     3.4   42.3   31.1  24N.9  414.1  29.6  106.8  106.3  154.4  155.6  156.7  157.5
Applicatious
Debt service
Aortization                                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   19.2   39.4   30.4   38.4
Intrest                                        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Total                         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0        .      0.0    0.0   19.2   38.4   39.4   39.4          0
SUM/90-9
Construction expenditures
Sorting centre                                          34    233    116                                                    383
Offices                                         30      41     50      23                                                   149
Equipment                                                      79      68                                                   147
Vhbiclts                                                11     14                                                            25
Eagle. 6 tch. ssis.                                     69     62                                                           131
Training                                                36     27      19                                                    82
Future proJect                                                         60      90     SO      80      80      80     80
Total                                         30    196    465    286        9O      90     80      90      90     S0   1057
917
Dividends                        0.0    0.0    0.0   25.7   19.1   23.2   20.6   17.9   37.1   33.8   30.2   25.7   37.6
Increase in working capital     -0.5   -0.6   -0.8   -1.-   -2.0   -2.2   -2.5   -2.8   -3.1   -3.5   -4.0   -4.5   -9.3
Total applications              -.5   -0.6   29.2  219.9  481.1  307.0   99.1   95.0  133.1  148.7  144.7  139.6
Cash swplus                     35.9    '.9      1.9   30.1  -66.9  -14.4    8.7   13.3   21.3    7.0   12.0   17.9  -40.7



- 80 -                                            ANNEX 16
Page 5 of 5
8ALANCE SHEETS
(RvF aillion)
1997    1988   199     1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998'  1999
zed assets
23.9
Nos              24.1
Mnt              19.3
s                2.4
1 69.6   73.1   76.7    9.5  165.6  867.0  1071.3  1114.1  1311.7  2364.2  1571.7  1634.6  1904.0
.ion              3.1    4.7    6.4    10.6   21.2   54.7  115.6  185.7  265.9  356.9  459.2  573.8  702.9
assets          66.5   68.4   70.3   76.9  144.4  812.3  955.7  929.4  1045.7  1007.3  1112.5  1060.8  1201.1
progress                 0.0    0.0   30.0  179.0    1.0  130.0  210.0   40.0  220.0  150.0  230.0  110.0
assets
WYsQt5            2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6
ables & var. db    6.0    6.3    6.6      6.9    7.3    7.7    9.0    8.4    8.9    9.3    9.8   18.3   10.9
i debtors        44.3   44.7    45.2   45.6   45.3   44.9   44.5   44.1   43.8   43.4   43.0   42.7   42.3
tent            291.9  297.7  303.7  309.8  316.0  322.3  328.7  335.3  342.0  3489.   355.8  362.9  370.2
344.8  351.4  358.1  365.0  371.1  377.4  383.9  390.5  397.2  404.1  411.2  419.5  425.9
mnts                     35.9   78.9   80.7  110.8   43.9   29.5   38.2   51.5   72.9   79.7   91.8  109.7
aets            411.3  455.7  507.2  552.6  805.3  1234.6  1499.1  1567.0  1634.5  1704.2  1753.5  1801.1  1846.7
LOs
104.3  104.3  104.3  104.3  104.3  104.3  104.3  104.3  104.3  104.3  104.3  104.3  104.3
d eanings                34.0   74.7  102.6  128.2  146.3  169.5  190.2  209.0  245.0  278.8  309.0  334.7
-tion reserve             3.3    6.7   16.6   44.7  100.6  145.1  183.4  223.5  265.3  308.6  353.1  399.6
wbsidy                                             75    150    150    150    150    150    150    150    150
1           104.3  141.6  195.8  223.4  352.2  501.2  569.0  627.9   65.8  764.6  841.7  916.5  998.6
i borrowing               0.0    0.0     0.0  116.0  388.0  576.0  576.0  576.0  556.8  518.4  4B0.0  441.6
liabilities
mrs & var. cred    7.3    8.3    9.5   10.8   12.3   14.1   16.0   18.3   20.8   23.7   27.1   30.9   35.2
creditors       7.8     8.0    9.3    8.5    8.8    9.0    9.3    9.6    9.9   10.2   10.5   10.8   11.1
deposits       291.9  297.7  303.7  309.8  316.0  322.3  328.7  335.3  342.0  348.9  355.8  362.9  370.2
1           301.0  314.1  321.5  329.1  337.1  345.4  354.1  363.2  372.7  382.8  393.4  404.6  416.5
abilities       411.3  455.7   507.2  552.6  905.3  1234.6  1499.1  1567.0  1634.5  1704.2  1753.5  1901.1  1894.7
--ts - liabilit   0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0    0.0
Lty ratio           Ot      01    0    0    25t    441    501   4Ut    461    421    395    343                311



- 81 -
ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Sunmmary of Telecommunications Tariffs
Rwanda Francs
Since 01/01/87
A.   Telephone
Annual rental for a single telephones
Within the exchange area                                      6,000
Within a suburban telephone area                              9,000
Outside these areas                                          12,000
Installation costs:
Standard charge                                               2,000
For each meter of cable above 20 meters
from cable head                                                200
- minimum deposit (refundable, no interest)                  3,000
- transfer to a third party                                  2,000
Tariffs:
For untimed local calls (minimum 30 per month)                   10
For interurban calls (one minute) - 3 min. minimum               40
For calls to frontier (one min.) - 3 min. minimum                10
For international calls:
One minute basic rate to Belgium, France                       445
one minute basic rate to Kenya, etc.                           245
United States                                                1,070
USSR                                                           600
Asia    -- Near East                                           245
Far East                                         1,070
B.   Telegrams
Internal tariff (7 words minimum) per word                         10
To Africa  -- Neighboring countries, e.g. Kenya, per word          45
North Africa                                       160
Other countries                                    230
To Europe  -- Belgium, Germany                                    115
France, Switzerland                                160
Other countries                                    175



- 82 -
ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 2
Rwanda Francs
Since 01/01/87
B.   Telegrams (Cont'd.)
To America -- North America and Mexico                            245
South America                                      300
To Asia    -- Mediterranean, Jordan and Iran                      20f
Other countries                                    300
To Australasia                                                    330
Letter telegrams (22 words minimum) are charged at 501.
C.   Telex
Annual basic rental (not including the teleprinter)           14,400
Annual teleprinter rental                                     72 000
Annual maintenance contract                                   28,000
First installation fee                                         2,000
Deposit (refundable, no interest)                             20.000
Minimum charge (3 minutes) per minute -- Belgium                  585
Burundi                270
Kenya                  430
United States          885
Local                   30
Interurban              90
Zaire - direct         400
- other route   560



- 83 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMHUNICATIONS PROJECT
Return on Telecomunications Investment
1.        Construction expenditure on which rates of return are calculated
are those under the telecommunications program. The benefit period extends
from 1989 to 2010, when on average the equipment installed under the program
is expected to have completed its usefulness with no residual value.
2.        Capital costs are those of the 1989-94 construction expenditure
program, exclusive of all price contingencies and transfer payments, such as
custom duties. They are valued at 1990 prices. Benefits attributed to the
program are valued at actual tariffs and consist of the revenues from the new
subscribers  connected  under  the  project.    Operating  costs  are  the
corresponding  incremental  operating  costs  of providing  services.    All
revenues and costs have been deflated to bring them to their comparable 1990
price levels. From 1996, because the benefits from the telecomunications
project are expected to be extended for that year, (or 1993) on, operating
costs and benefits relating to the project are assumed to remain constant.
The financial rate of return would thus be 122.
3.        The internal financial rate of return, however, does not fully
reflect the net economic benefit from the program.  Assuming that in the
future, given the supply constraint, subscribers would be prepared to pay in
real terms the same tariff as in 1990, a portion of the consumer surplus can
be estimated. Furthermore, the portion of civil works cost attributed to the
employment of unskilled labor has been excluded from the investment cost,
assuming an oversupply of unskilled labor. In such a case, the economic rate
of return would be 25? (compared to the financial 122).
4.        The  sensitivity  analyses were made as  follows:   assuming a
simultaneous reduction of 1OZ in revenues and increase of 102 in construction
and operating costs, the economic rate of return would decrease to 202; if
revenues are delayed by two years, the economic rate of return would decrease
to 17z.



- 84 -
ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 2
RATe  OP R etrURN   OP THE  POJ EcT
|*e of raftgi      Y                                  C.rm,r"  fl_  flo     a a I t I v I t *      a * S I 7 a i
pirnoleg r.r.    MO        i  -_.0 @.0  -_.0                         -e.s             1.a  -M.* -_0    0
2.49"0             -_.0           om.0  -in.*            _.S        0.0 .   .e  -ea.0 s.o  11.0
6.g*  r.,.        99       M  -0.-3   s9.$        a  -e          . . a       us... .M.1 -t141.1 -n.S
m.VuIU             -7r.0       .4  100.8 - .&   M9   -@6.3  413.2  1 .S -U        6.8  -6.0
bis.,...0.9;int.5.11995     -2.7  489..  740.2   17.9  7.1  -m.O   M.   es'.s  -41.7  -.-
".m.w               10ss  eM.&   W.A   Mi.2   9.1  44.7  0.s    a.m               S.a  sos.2
gs.. 01w   2    1ow               8.9    .a      U.s  19.6 u17.9  96.S  In. I   96.6   WU.5  54.9
17.45996            in.11  76.4       A.  188.2 1469.0 U1.7 &.1  10.4 6            2.2  Ms
Uist.w.a.A....... 5 99"         .o   11 3.4   96. I 346.2 14O9".0  %9.7           .10.4  1M.0  M.
ifU.swI 1m.4  1.4    6.9  18.2  14W.0  U9.7  41.1  s.4  Us&i.2   m.6
s9"           M.   760.4   60.9  14.2  14".0  19.7  &9.1   10.4  141.2   m.s
600            m.i  760.4    0.  18.2  149.0  19.7 56.1 1.4.4   148.2. $me
600           m.i  760.4  16.9  18.2  14".0  118.7 LM.A  101.4  1I4.2   62.6
6006          m.e    1.4 6      0.9  U84.2  149.0  1U18.7     1.l,  U16.4  184.2   m2.e
24.6  11.4 M                6 .9  184.2  141.0  1289.7  59.1  10.4  18.2  6.
::            m.        .64    A.  23.2  149.0  118.7  1926.1  505.4  141.2  mJ2.e
6006          .M   76.4    0.9  1348.2  149.0 U1 .? 5196.1  105.4  284.2  GM
::000         on.*    1.4       0.9  1848.2 14t9.0  U25.r  9".   106.4  1848.2         .6
6007           A.  16.4         .9  848.2  149.0  1259.7  1.1   106.4  236.2   4.6
601              .i  70.4   60.9  1848.2 149.0  129.-7  519.5  146.4  1546.2   m2.-
:0            Sme   Ra.4    60.0 1846.2  149.0 U19.7  WW9.    11.4    4.2    n.o
6010          m.e   76.4   60.9  146.2  149.0  19.7  519.1  50.4  1368.2   M.



P                                                                           30              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cagitumba
RWANDA                                                    U G                                Cagitu
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS                                            U G A N D A
EXISTING AND PROJECTED TELEPHONE FACILITIES                                                                                         TANZANIA
MINISTERE DES TRANSPORTS ET COMMUNICATIONS
RESEAU TELEPHON/QUE EXISTANT ET EXTENSIONS                               C       ya
Planned Digital Links                                                                                 una
Liaison Numerique en Projet                                        RuhenGabiro
o     Planned Digital Exchanges                                    bare                                                     o
Centraux Numeriques en Projet                   AV                                                   Byumba
Existing Digital Links                                 Rubavu   Mukamira
Liaison Numerique Existante                             i
Existing Analog Links
Liaison Analogique Existante
*     Existing Digital Exchanges                                                                 J          D.W.
Centraux Numeriques Existants                                                              ari              Rwankuba
\ ubengera                  IGALI                         Rwamagana
*     Radio Relay                                       KibRubengera                                                  uga\
Relais Hertziens                                     uye
Gitarama           Nyamirambo
International Boundaries
Frontieres Internationales                                     ongi      Ruhango
Kanzenze                     Kibungo
l10   20   30   40                                                   is KILOMErERS   ,  Gisovu
tS    /                      ~~~~~~~~Nyabismu 
ZAIRE   1JGANDA                             '
gWA4DA  )   v  KENYA   Iyarushishi  Gikongoro r    Rubona 0                                TANZANIA
RW DAKENYA                                           yarushishi
O                _                                      yabitimbo                                                       ..r
CTl        'BURUNDI                   /                  u gaaaTumba                                              BURUNDI                          C '-   |d
TANZANIA                                                             Akanyar
1,0                                ' .t            29E\s BURUNDI                                              30



