Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RePort No. P-5403-RW
MEMORANDUM AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 8.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NOVEMBER 19, 1990
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Rwandese Franc (RF)
$1.0 = RF 123.3
FISCAL YEAR
Government = January 1 - December 1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEM         Country Economic Memorandum
DGP         Direction Generale des Postes
(Posts General Directorate)
DGT         Direction Generale des Telecommunications
(Telecommunications General Directorate)
ESW         Economic and Sector Work
FAC         Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(Aid Agency of the French Government)
GOR         Government of Rwanda
MINITRANSCO Ministry of Transport and Communications of GOR
PE Sector   Public Enterprises Sector
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
SAF         Structural Adjustment Facility
SAL         Structural Adjustment Credit
SPA         Special Program of Assistance for Africa
SEMT        Societe d'Economie Mixte des Telecommunications
(Semi-private telecommunications company)
RP          Regie des Postes (autonomous public postal entity)
UNDP        United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Rwanda
Beneficiaries:    Ministry   of   Transport    and   Communications
(MINITRANSCO), and following their creation: Societe
d'Economie Mixte des Telecommunications (SEMT) and
Regie des Postes (RP).
Implementing
Agencies:         MINITRANSCO, SEMT and RP
Amount:           SDR 8.9 million ($12.8 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard IDA.
Financing Plan:
Total        Z of Total
-_--S$ Million------
IDA                     12.8            74.4
FAC                        .8            4.7
DGT/SEMT                   .6            3.5
DGPIRP                   3.0            17.4
TOTAL            17.2           100.0
Economic Rate of Return: 25%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 9042-RW, dated November 19, 1990
Map: IBRD No. 22708
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A
SECOND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed second
communications project to the Republic of Rwanda for SDR 8.9 million
($12.8 million equivalent) is submitted for approval. The proposed Credit
would be on standard IDA terms and would help promote efficient communica-
tions through a series of well-focussed actions described below. Part I of
this memorandum outlines the country policies and Bank assistance strategy.
Part  II describes  the proposed Credit.    Country economic  and social
indicators are in Schedule E.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
2.        This section first provides a brief background to Rwanda's past
economic policies and performance. It then focuses on the main structural
and policy-induced problems currently confronting the Rwandese economy.
A review of priorities and of the Government's reform program follows.
Bank assistance to date is then briefly reviewed.  This is followed by a
discussion of the direction of the Bank's current assistance efforts.
Finally, the risks to the program and a summary assessment are presented.
Past Economic Policies and Performance
3.        Rwanda is a small, landlocked, densely-populated country 3.n Central
Africa.   Its per capita GDP was estimated at $300 per annum in 1989.
Rwanda's economy is highly dependent on agriculture. About 90 percent of
the population lives in rural areas and agriculture accounts for 40 percent
of GDP. Coffee is the main export; in 1988 it accounted for 80 percent of
total exports. Industry accounts for about 22 percent of GDP. The sector
is geared towards meeting domestic demand for basic goods; over half of its
production consists of food and beverages.   Manufacturing exports are
negligible.
4.        During the 1970s, Rwanda experienced high rates of economic growth
(5 percent on average per annum) and low inflation. Generous foreign aid,
coupled with prudent economic management, enabled the country to achieve
budget surpluses, a relatively high level of external reserves, and a low
debt service ratio. Government policy throughout this period was generally
non-interventionist, and the trade regime was among the most liberal in the
region. However, the seeds of future problems were sown in the late 1970s,
when the Government embarked on an ambitious public expenditure program in
the wake of the coffee boom.



5.        Economic conditions began to deteriorate ir. the early 1980s.
Low export prices and adverse climatic conditions led to a large decrease in
coffee earnings. Nevertheless, the large public expenditure program was not
adjusted, and both the external account and public finances deteriorated
rapidly.   The Government attempted to combat these trends by adopting
restrictive monetary and fiscal policies and intensifying its intervention
in the economy. Import licensing requirements were tightened, strict price
controls were applied, and inefficient industries were protected from imports
by "temporary" import prohibitions.   Domestic borrowing to finance large
budgetary deficits grew sharply; as a result, public domestic debt quadrupled
betweer 1981 and 1988, reaching $314 million, or 13.6 percent of GDP, at the
end of 1988.
6.        High coffee prices led to a temporary improvement in the situation
in the mid-1980s.   However, fundamental problems had not been addressed,
and the economic situation worsened again when coffee prices fell in 1987.
Coffee quality also deteriorated, due to poor weather and inefficient
handling by the coffee parastatal, OCIR-Cafe.
7.        The mining sector, which had provided about 15 percent of exports,
collapsed in the second half of the eighties and mining exports have
virtually disappeared. Real GDP, which had grown by an average of 4 percent
per annum in 1985-86, declined slightly in 1987 (-0.3 percent), stagnated in
1988, and contracted sharply in 1989 (-6.5 percent). On average, GDP growth
has lagged behind population growth in the 1980s, resulting in a
deterioration of living standards. The balance of payments current account
deficit deteriorated from 9.6 percent of GDP in 1986 to 11 percent of GDP in
1989. Although inflation has remained low (2.1 percent a year, on average,
since 1986), prices have increased rapidly on the parallel markets.
8.        Thanks to grants and highly concessional loans, Rwanda had been
able to maintain a relatively low debt service ratio up to the mid-1980s.
However, the debt service ratio more than doubled between 1986 and 1989 to
reacii 17 percent. Foreign exchange reserves have also had to be drawn down
to finance balance of payments deficits. As a result, net reserves fell from
tho equivalent of five months of imports in 1987 to less than one month in
mid-1990 (despite a much lower import level due to discretionary import
controls).
9.        By the end of the 1980s, the fiscal deficit reached unsustainable
levels (about 8 percent of GDP in 1989). The Government attempted to control
the wage bill by limiting public sector wage increases to a 3 percent annual
adjustment and by cutting public investment and services. However, high
domestic support prices to coffee producers--affected by low world prices and
an overvalued exchange rate--proved to be a serious drain on public finances:
annual transfers to coffee producers accounted for 10 percent of current
Government outlays in 1987-89. On the revenue side, Government efforts are
limited by the narrow tax base. The Government relies primarily on revenue
from tariffs and from excise taxes on a few products (especially fuels and
beer). Although the revenue effort (tax as a percent of GDP) has increased
in recent years, it remains below the average for Sub-Saharan Africa.



-3-
Central Development Issues
10.       Rwanda faces a combination of structural and policy-induced,
constraints to its development. Long-term, structural impediments to growth
include:   (a) the highest population density in Sub-Saharan Africa (294
people per km2); (b) high rate of population growth (3.7 percent per annum),
which in turn threatens agricultural production through subdivision of arable
land and cultivation of marginal lands, leads to environmental degradation
and complicates the provision of basic services, particularly in health and
education; (c) overdependence on coffee, with its volatile prices; and (d)
the land-locked location of the country, which makes imports expensive and
reduces the competitiveness of exports; and (e) a major imbalance between
imports and exports (currently per capita imports and exports are around
$35.5 and $14.5, respectively).  Policy-induced constraints included, until
recently, a highly overvalued exchange rate, high levels of protection,
government involvement at every stage of economic activity, and the drain on
public resources of high coffee subsidies and inefficient public enterprises.
The priority for action is to create an enabling policy environment for
sustainable growth, and to begin implementing measures that address long-
term development issues, e.g., population and environment.
11.       a) Exchange Rate.  On November 10, 1990, the Government devalued
the Rwandese Franc by 40 percent in foreign currency terms (67 percent vis-
a-vis the SDR) as part of a package of coordinated reforms (para. 15). This
was the first adjustment in the exchange rate since September 1983, when the
Rwandese Franc was pegged to the SDR at the rate of SDR 1 = RF 102.71. This
had led to an appreciation of the real effective exchange rate of about 30
percent relative to the currencies of Rwanda's major trading partners. As
a result, imports became artificially cheap, resulting in calls for
protection from local industries and to rapid loss of foreign exchange.
Exports have also been discouraged, since costs are high relative to other
countries.  The Government intends to follow a flexible exchange rate policy
aimed at international competitiveness and export promotion.
12.       b) Tariffs and Non-Tariff Barriers.  The tariff regime, quantita-
tive restrictions end import prohibitions provide high and varied levels of
protection to existing enterprises. In practice, protection comes from the
fact that:  (i) imports of goods which are produced locally are only allowed
if domestic production is insufficient to meet demand; and (ii) availab_e
foreign exchange is allocated in a highly discretionary manner by the
Government through detailed import programming.  The spread in the rates of
protection distorts incentives by increasing the profitability of domestic
production relative to exports and the relative profitability of various
sectors. The policy reform objective in this area should be to move towards
a market based system of foreign exchange allocation; relax import licensing
requirements; and reform the tariff system by lowering both the level and
variance of nominal tariffs, thereby increasing efficiency and promoting a
better export climate.
13.       c)  Government  Intervention.    Since  1983,  the Government has
followed a dirigiste approach to managing the economy, intervening at every
stage of economic activity.   A complex set of regulations governs all
aspects of the economy.   New investments need authorization from several



- 4 -
departments--a lengthy and expensive process which discourages investment and
raises project costs. Under this system, entry of new firms is restricted
and hiring and firing decisions must be approved by the Ministry of Labor;
domestic competition is thus stifled.   Many goods are subject to price
controls, often on a cost-plus basis. Coupled with high levels of protec-
tion, this has resulted in inefficient, high-cost production.   To foster
international competitiveness, prices should be progressively decontrolled
and impediments to private sector initiatIve removed.
14.       d) PLblic Enterprises.   Inefficient and often non-viable public
enterprises play a large role in the economy. Public and mixed enterprises
account for about 10 percent of GDP. Individual public enterprises control
the sales of coffee, tea, and pyrethrum, whith constitute Rwanda's major
exports. Poor performance by public enterprises has affected export earnings
and put a large burden on public finances. Between :983 and 1987, subsidies
to public enterprises amounted to 6 percent of Government revenue. Under an
ongoing IDA project, a program of restructuring, divestiture and liquidation
for 17 enterprises has been initiated and diagnostic studies of another 23
enterprises  will  be  undertaken.    This  will  provide  the  basis  for
comprehensive reform of the sector.
The Government's Reform Program.
15.       A Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1991-93 has been prepared by the
Rwandese authorities with the assistance of the staff of the Bank and the
Fund and will be presented to the Board of the two organizations shortly.
The PFP goes a long way towards addressing the major distortions in the
incentives system noted above, while laying the foundations for dealing with
longer-term structural constraints.   It calls for policies to foster an
environment conducive to private sector activity and international competi-
tiveness, for improvements and rationalization of public resource management,
and for development of the human resource base and safeguarding of natural
resources.  More specifically, actions envisaged to help introduce inter-
national competition include: (a) a substantial devaluation (already
undertaken) followed by a flexible exchange rate policy; (b) the introduction
of an Open General Licence system for imports; (c) the elimination of import
prohibitions designed to protect domestic industry, and their replacement
by tariffs and temporary surcharges; (d) the lowering of tariffs, elimination
of all exemptions and the reduction of the number of tariff rates; and (e)
abolition of price controls, except for a small number of basic necessities.
16.       In the agricultural sector, the key objectives are to increase
yields and diversify production and exports, and to achieve food security in
an environmentally sustainable way. With regard to public sector management,
the objectives are to strengthen tax administration and review the tax
system, to improve programming and control of public expenditures, to ensure
a "safety net" of social expenditures to protect the poorest and most
vulnerable groups, and to implement an all-encompassing reform of the public
enterprise sector which has already started with IDA assistance. This reform
program includes improvements of the legal/institutional framework,
rehabilitation of viable public enterprises, divestiture of those that can
be privatized, and liquidation of the rest.



- 5 -
17.       The Government's structural adjustment program will be accompanied
by prudent fiscal and financial policies.  The objectlve is a sustainable
overall fiscal position made possible by eliminating coffee subsidies,
rationalizing expenditures and increasing government revenues. The fiscal
deficit (excluding grants) is expected to be reduced gradually from 7.6
percent of GDP in 1989 to 4.1 percent by 1993. In support of the action on
the exchange rate, and to relieve the pressure on prices and the balance of
payments, the annual growth of the money supply will be kept lower than the
growth rate of nominal GDP.  In line with the improvement in the fiscal
situation, there will be a decline in net credit to the public sector,
thereby allowing a reasonable expansion or credit to the private sector to
stimulate economic activity. The measures being adopted will not necessarily
result in an immediate major improvement in the trade balance, as imports
will have to increase to help restcre investment and growth, while export
promotion measures are expected to take time to yield results. Therefore,
the current account deficit is expected to remain around 10 percent of GDP
in 1993 and decline to about 9 percent in 1995. Rwanda has a relatively low
external debt burden: the ratio of outstanding debt to GDP was 25 percent in
1989. The Government will continue to pursue a prudent external debt
management policy by relying exclusively on concessional loans.
18.       The Government has already begun implementing some of the key PFP
measures. The most important reforms implemented in November 1990 are: (i)
a 40 percent devaluation of the Franc in foreign currency terms; (ii)
increases in interest rates which include raising to 12 percent the minimum
rate for one year deposits, and the maximum lending rate to 19 percent while
all other interest rates on deposits are freed; and introducing a unified
rediscount rate of 14 percent; and (iii) an increase in petroleum prices by
75 percent on average. Other announced reforms, which will take effect by
January 1, 1991, include: (i) elimination of export taxes, except for coffee:
(ii) tariff reforms which consist, in a first phase, of the elimination of
import prohibitions and their replacement by import taxes or surcharges, and
of a reduction in tariff dispersion. Minimum import duties will be raised
to 10 percent and a maximum duty of 100 percent will be introduced; and (iii)
tax measures which consist of increasing the turnover tax from 6 to 10
percent for most goods, from 2 to 5 percent for essential commodities, and
from 1 to 10 percent for services and entertainment.
19.       The Bank's dialogue with the authorities has led to a general
agreement that the benefits of improved overall economic management will be
short-lived if major progress is not achieved in dealing with long-term
structural issues. Of utmost importance in this respect are the design and
implementation of appropriate population and environmental policies. Indeed,
the Government has already adopted a National Population Policy and an action
program emphasizing motivational campaigns and providing for a greater
availability and coverage of family planning services, as well as measures
to  reduce  infant  mortality.    The  Government  has  also  prepared  an
Environmental Action Plan as the necessary framework for maintaining and
improving soil fertility while ensuring that environmental guidelines are
adhered to in all development projects.
20.       The successful implementation of the Government's program and the
attainment of its growth and investment objectives will depend not only on



the appropriateness of its economic and financial policies but also on the
availability of timely and adequate external financial assistance. Based on
the need to finance the imports required by the projected growth of output
and the "safety net" of social expenditures, to restcre by 1993 a level of
external reserves equivalent to at least three months of imports, and to
fully service external debt obligations, total external financing require-
ments for 1991-93 (including grants) are estimated at $298 million annually.
These estimates take into account the impact of the Gulf crisis.   After
allowing for net transfers, gross inflows from the existing pipeline,
disbursements from new concessional commitments for project financing, and
net direct investment, the financing gap would amlount to about $86 million
per annum during 1991-93.   This gap could be financed by the following
additional resources: (i) IDA Credits for structural and sector adjustment;
(ii) the IMF's Structural Adjustment Facility, to be disbursed during
1990-92; and (iii) other bilateral or multilateral assistance within the
framework of the Special Program of Assistance for Africa.
Bank Assistance to Date
21.       The Bank's primary focus in its operations in Rwanda to date has
been on sector and project lending in support of the Government's public
investment program; on appropriate but limited policy reforms through sector
lending (without quick-disbursing assistance); and on macto and sectoral
policy dialogue through economic and sector work.  Since 1970, Rwanda has
received 37 IDA Credits for a total amount of $466.7 million, and two Special
African Facility Credits ($25 million) for the 6th Highway Credit. Rwanda
has also benefitted from three loans from IFC and two equity participations.
Lending operations have financed: (a) infrastructure development (45
percent), particularly road construction and maintenance; (b) agricultural
and rural development (30 percent), with particular emphasis on farming
systems research, improving extension services and input supply, and refores-
tation; (c) human resources development (8 percent), especially in primary
education, preventive health services, and family planning; (c) development
of local energy sources and energy conservation (5 percent); (d) development
of small and medium enterprises (8 percent) through support to the Develop-
ment Bank (BRD), and (e) technical assistance (4 percent). To date, there
has been no lending for structural adjustment.
22.       The current portfolio includes  17 IDA Credits.   Disbursement
performance has been slow (annual disbursements have averaged about $30
million in FY88-90 and about 40 percent of the total commitments remain
undisbursed). Portfolio performance has been mixed. In some cases, project
implementation is affected by weak management and institutions, lengthy
ratification procedures which delay effectiveness of Credits, inappropriate
budgetary practices for counterpart funds, and cumbersome procurement
procedures.



Table 1: DISTRIBUTION OF LENDING, FY71-90
(US8 Million)
Sector                   Amount        U      No. of Projects
Intrastructure           212.87      46.6          14
Road                    106.17     22.6           9
Transport               40.0        8.6           1
Telecom                  7.6        1.6           1
Urban                   32.0        6.9           1
Water Supply            28.0        6.0           2
Agriculture and Forestry    138.86   29.8          11
Agriculture             103.76     22.2           9
Forestry                36.1        7.6           2
Human Resources           44.4        9.5           4
Education               83.6        7.2           3
Health                  10.8        2.3           1
Energy                    24.0        6.1           2
Finance and Industry      37.0        7.9           6
Finance                 25.2        5.4           4
Industry                11.8        2.5           2
Technical Assistance       9.8        2.1           2
TOTAL            488.72     100.0         39
23.       The Bank's program has been pursued in a climate of generally good
relations with the Government. In all sectors in which the Bank is active,
despite the implementation problems mentioned above, there exists a general
receptivity to Bank's advice on sectoral development issues. In agriculture,
improved sector management as well as more rigorous project planning and
financial controls have been attained, with a shift away from integrated
rural development schemes towards more directly productive projects and the
strengthening of institutional linkages between central government and local
levels. In the highways sector, the dialogue with the Ministry of Public
Works and Energy is focused on developing a national road maintenance
capacity. In industry, the Government is committed to promote small-scale
enterprises and has started to focus on the rehabilitation and restructuring
needs of some of the public and mixed enterprises.   In the education and
health sectors, cost and financing analyses by the Government constitute the
basis for designing future IDA lending.   To pursue its adjustment and growth
objectives, the Government is seeking from the Bank a Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAL) and access to the Special Program of Assistance for Africa
(SPA). In addition, the Government has requested from the IMF a three-year
structural adjustment facility (SAF).
Bank Assistance Strategy
24.       The Bank's main country assistance objective in Rwanda is to
promote sustained economic growth, with an equitable distribution of the
fruits of that growth. In the short term, this calls for support of a major
adjustment program focussing on resource management and the creation of an
enabling environment for private initiative and for export growth and
diversification. The long-term strategy is to increase per capita income by
reducing population growth, diversifying the economy's sources of growth,
improving income distribution and protecting the environment. The full range



- 8 -
of instruments, including policy dialogue, lending, economic and sector work
and aid coordination, will be used to implement this strategy.   Recent
government reforms open the way to a lending program which will blend quick
disbursing adjustment operations with additional investment projects.
25.       The current assistance strategy consists of two to three operations
a year, including a series of structural and sector adjustment operations.
The first SAL planned for FY91, will support the initial phase of the Govern-
ment's economic reform program as described in its 1991-93 PFP.  It will
focus on four key policy areas: liberalization of the foreign and domestic
trade regime, supply-side measures to stimulate the private sector, reduced
role for the state coupled with improved public resource management, and
adequate delivery of social services.   The program would include:   (i)
actions in the key areas of macroeconomic management, including exchange rate
and trade policies, production incentives and export promotion; (ii) allevia-
tion of the institutional and production constraints in key sectors (coffee
and mining); (iii) improvement of public sector management by putting into
place a process of public expenditure programming;  (iv) provision of a
satisfactory social "safety net" within the framework of an agreed public
expenditure program; and (v) initiation of policy reforms dealing with
taxation, labor legislation and civil service, which would be completed under
subsequent adjustment operations.
26.       The first SAL will support the setting in place of an overall
macroeconomic policy umbrella which will be complemented by high priority
projects as well as sector operations supporting specific policy measures and
investments. These operations would help develop the infrastructure needed
to help promote private sector initiative as well as address long-term
development issues in education,  population and health.   The proposed
communications projects discussed in Part II of this report fits with this
strategy.   Improved communications services will facilitate the supply
response by the productive sectors, benefit export-oriented ventures and
promote activity in the service sector. Future sector operations will seek
to promote (i) private sector development by consolidating the measures under
the proposed SAL and ensuring the efficient operation of the financial
sector; and (ii) intensification of agricultural production to improve food
security and the rehabilitation of the coffee sector to help export recovery.
Recent sector work which is nearing completion (e.g., on Agricultural Sector
Review,  and  a  Financial  Sector  Study)  will  provide  the  analytical
underpinnings for these operations. In addition, agreement has already been
reached on a substantial program of reforms to liberalize the transport
sector within the framework of a recently approved Transport Sector Credit
(Cr. 2136-RW).
27.       In the area of capacity building,  the intention is to focus
primarily on the technical assistance and training needs of the macro and
sectoral reform programs by:  (i) reorienting the existing TA projects in
the Ministry of Plan and Finance; and (ii) introducing selective technical
assistance components in future projects in agriculture and other sectors.
The Bank will also endeavor to improve project implementation by devoting
more resources to project supervision.   Special emphasis will be put or.
improving procurement to accelerate the disbursement rate.



- 9 -
28.       To address long-term development issues, Bank lending in the social
sectors would intensify. This includes an education sector operation which
will focus on improving the quality and coverage of primary education in
support of the Government's recent decision to reduce the primary cycle from
eight to six years--a reform which was prompted by an ongoing dialogue with
the Bank.   A free-standing population control project will assist the
Government in achieving its population policy objectives. A second health
and nutrition project will put emphasis on child nutrition and control of
malaria and AIDS, which constitute two of the major causes of death in the
country.
29.       To  alleviate  the  possible  unfavorable  short-term  impact  of
adjustment measures, the Bank is working with the Government to help put in
place a social action program. More specifically, the Structural Adjustment
Credit will provide for a social safety net through the public expenditure
program, which will ensure that budgetary allocations for the social sectors
are protected during the stabilization period.  This program will form an
integral part of the SAL, both in its design and in its implementation.
30.       Economic growth in Rwanda will not be sustainable unless measures
are taken to protect the fragile and deteriorating environment.  The Bank
has helped the Government in formulating a comprehensive environmental action
program. Bank assistance in this area will continue, especially in order to
strengthen government institutions so that all projects in Rwanda adhere to
the approved environmental guidelines.  An agricultural sector Credit will
ire-lude a forestry component as land tenure reform aimed at better management
oi an increasingly scarce resource.
31.       Economic and Sector Work.   The Bank's economic and sector work
(ESW) will support the adjustment program and will, in turn, be shaped by it.
Over the past few years, major investigations such as a Country Economic
Memorandum (Report No. 6191-RW) and the First Public Expenditure Review
(Report No. 7717-RW) have helped to document the case for adjustment and to
identify the range of reforms necessary in crucial areas like the exchange
rate, regulatory framework, parastatals, and public resource management.
Ongoing and planned ESW focuses on deepening and extending the measures
expected to be introduced in the first phase of adjustment and on preparing
specific reform proposals in the areas already identified.  These are the
objectives of an ongoing Financial Sector Review and of a planned study of
Labor Legislation aimed at reducing labor market rigidities. The program,
at the same time, supports specific country objectives.   For example, an
Agricultural Strategy Review (in progress) aims at reversing the overall
economic stagnation by diversifying agricultural production and integrating
it more fully into the international economy.  Export diversification and
growth are also the focus of a planned regional study. A program of public
expenditure reviews aims to improve resource mobilization and allocation with
special attention to the needs of the social sectors as well as maintenance
of vital infrastructure. A planned study of Secondary and Higher Education
should help to develop a policy framework for improving quality and
efficiency and contribute to capacity building. A new CEM, together with
supervision missions of prospective adjustment operations, will monitor the
progress of adjustment with a view to identifying any needed changes in
policies, lending (by the Bank or other donors), and ESW itself.



- 10 -
32.       Aid Coordination and Relations with IMF.  Over the past two years
the Bank has kept the major donors abreast cf its policy discussions with
Rwanda. The Bank will also help the Government to mobilize financial
assistance from the international community within the framework of SPA II,
and to convince traditional donors to complement their project lending with
balance-of-payment support. Rwanda's eligibility will be recommended, based
on the agreement reached on the PFP.   UNDP has scheduled a Round Table
meeting for early 1991 and the Bank will participate in its preparation.
In addition, if the flow of foreign resources is not sufficient to cover the
financing gap caused by the Gulf crisis, the Bank would be prepared to
increase the size of its adjustment operations and restructure ongoing
projects to accelerate disbursements.
33.       Close collaboration with the IMF has been a long-standing feature
of Bank relations with Rwanda. The Policy Framework Paper has been prepared
jointly and Bank and Fund missions have closely coordinated the substance
and the timing of their work. The Government has requested drawing on the
Structural Adjustment Facility and discussions are under way for a SAF
arrangement.
34.       Uncertainty and Contingency Plans.   In the immediate future,
keeping the country on the adjustment path will be the main priority in the
Bank's dialogue with Rwanda. While the Government has already demonstrated
its commitment to reform, there are a number of risks which may force the
Government to deviate from the adjustment path.
35.       First, the impact of the stabilization combined with food shortages
which have already appeared due to drought, could lead to social unrest and
may induce the Government to abandon partially or completely the adjustment
program. This risk will be significantly mitigated by including in the
design of adjustment operations a social safety net to protect the most
vulnerable groups during the stabilization period.  However, the recently
announced far reaching reforms taken at a difficult time in the country's
history, show that the Government is committed to adjustment and confirm its
reputation for following through on decisions it has taken.
36.       Second, continued weakness in the world coffee prices, and higher
oil prices, combined with insufficient financial support from abroad, may
lead to a significant unfilled external financing gap and make it difficult
for the Government to continue with the liberalization program.  The Bank
will make every effort under SPA II to help the Government to mobilize
external financial assistance from traditional and new donors. In addition,
as noted above, the Bank would be prepared to increase the size of its
adjustment Credits and accelerate disbursements of ongoing projects.
These efforts should ensure that adequate external support is available to
implement the adjustment program.
37.       Finally, ethnic violence could prevent the implementation of the
adjustment program. The recent outburst of fighting, which took place when
Rwamdese refugees from a neighboring country invaded Rwanda, is receding and
the peace process has been started. Nevertheless, there is a risk of another
eruption until a satisfactory solution is found to the plight of Rwandese



- 11 -
refugees in neighboring countries. The Rwandese Government is working with
the Governments of neighboring states to bring about a peaceful solution of
the refugee problem.
38.       Government has fulfilled the first cest of its commitment to the
adjustment process, following the recent violence, by implementing several
important reform measures which had been agreed with the Bank and the Fund.
If the authorities are unable to pursue further reforms under the proposed
SAL and the SAF, the Bank will scale back its lending program to one to two
high priority projects a year in the social sectors and infrastructure
maintenance.
39.       Summary Assessment.  Rwanda is entering a period of rapid economic
and social change. After a long period of hesitation and national consensus-
building, courageous decisions have been taken to embark on a far-reaching
economic reform program, reversing inward-looking and interventionist
policies and beginning to address longer-term constraints, including
population growth.  The Bank is helping in the design of economic policy
reforms and in mobilizing financial support from the international community.
Rwanda's credibility in adhering to hard decisions once they are taken is
proving valuable in this task.   At the same time, long-standing ethnic
rivalries have resurfaced in the form of armed conflict. Although it may be
too soon to ascertain the longer-term implications of this outbreak, it does
introduce an important element of uncertainty and may affect the
implementation of the reform program.   So far, the Government appears
determined to press on with the adjustment process. As long as the Govern-
ment stays on the adjustment path, the Bank will assist Rwanda with two to
three operations a year, including a series of adjustment operations, as well
as Credits for high priority projects.   If the authorities are unable to
implement reforms under the proposed First SAL, the Bank will scale back its
lending to one or two investment Credits a year.
PART II - THE CREDIT
40.       Background.   The Government of Rwanda has requested the Bank's
assistance for the development of the country's postal and telecommunications
sectors, in support of an improved business environment.   The Bank first
became involved in the sector in 1978 and, in July 1980, it approved a $7.5
million Credit (1057-RW) to finance a Telecommunications Project.   This
project consisted of network expansion and replacement investments and modest
technical assistance for the improvement of the internal organization of
telecommunications services in the Ministry of Transport and Communications
(MINITRANSCO). It achieved its physical objectives and contributed to the
modernization of the Rwandese telecommunications network. As a result, the
quality of service is currently not far below that of developed countries.
To sustain this level of service, however, an institutional structure
conducive to adequate maintenance of the new equipment needs to be
established. Furthermore, the service is mostly concentrated in the capital
city of Kigali and a small number of provincial centers, while the country's
overall telephone density remains among the lowest in the world and is about
one-third the average for Sub-Saharan Africa. Rwanda's postal density of one
post office per 218,000 inhabitants is also among the lowest in the world and



- 12 -
compares to one per 31,000 in Tanzania or one per 68,000 in Benin. Demand
for both telecommunications and postal services is strong.
41.       MINITRANSCO's specialized departments are currently providing all
communications services and are operating under serious constraints imposed
by public regulations and procedures.  In addition, the spread of various
responsibilities among different ministries is detrimental to efficiency and
hinders coherent sector development. Despite support from the first project,
management improvements within the ministry have been modest. In response
to persisting infrastructural and institutional deficiencies, the Govern-
ment's objectives ir requesting Bank support are to:  (a) expand coverage
and enhance reliability of communications services to meet a growing demand,
foster decentralization, encourage rural development and improve the
communications with the rest of the world; (b) restructure the communications
sector by separating the supervision and regulatory functions from the
provision of services to the public and from the day-to-day operations of the
post and telecommunications facilities; and (c) restructure the operating
functions of the ministry into commercially-oriented entities with
appropriate financial and administrative autonomy, develop their managerial
capabilities and improve their financial and operating performance, with
emphasis on human resources development.
42.       A number of donors are interested in continuing their support of
the Government's sector investment program, mostly for physical telecommuni-
cation facilities. The Government has turned to the Bank for assistance in
developing a sensible sector investment program and in realizing its
institutional development objectives. The main focus of this dialogue was
on restructuring MINITRANSCO's departments providing communications services
into commercially-oriented entities. The objectives of these changes are to
(i) improve operating efficiency and profitability by reducing costs and
maximizing revenue generation; (ii) create the necessary conditions for
opening the telecommunications sector to private sector participation; (iii)
upgrade technical, operational and managerial capabilities in the sector,
including adequate maintenance for the newly-installed equipment; and (iv)
improve and expand telecommunications and postal services. In the context
of this dialogue, the Government decided to make a clean break with the past
and reorganize the sector through the creation of independent communications
entities rather than try to improve Government departments, and to proceed
with the thorough preparation of these entities.
43.       Studies and preparation for the reform of the communications
sector, as well as preparation for the postal investments were carried out
by consultants financed under an IDA-funded Technical Assistance project
(Credit 1217-RW). A preappraisal mission took place in November 1988 and the
appraisal mission visited  Rwanda  in February  1989.    However,  before
proceeding further, an extensive dialogue on the overall sector investment
program and on a clear definition of the Government's role in the sector took
place. This was concluded during a post-appraisal mission in August 1990,
with an agreement on a Statement of Communications Sector Policy, which
limits the role of the Government to overall policy and regulation,
provides for commercially operated entities, and envisages private sector
participation.



- 13 -
44.       Rationale for Bank Involvement.   Until recently, the Bank has
followed a strategy which emphasized project lending in: (a) infrastructure
to reduce the country's isolation and provide incentives for further
intensification of agriculture; (b) promotion of small and medium size
enterprises in manufacturing and other sectors; and (c) development of humar.
resources.    The  country  dialogue  is  now  focussing  on  an  improved
macroeconomic and sectoral framework as well as stressing improvements in the
quality of public investments and public sector management. The proposed
project fits well into the underlying strategy of state disengagement from
industrial and commercial activities.   The Government regards the Bank's
involvement in telecommunications as essential in helping focus attention on
the important elements of sector reform and in coordinating donor assistance.
Other donors have also looked to the Bank to take the lead in bringing about
sustainable institutional reform in the communications sector and have
welcomed close cooperation, coordinated by the Bank, in designing the sector
investment program.
45.       Project Objectives.  The objectives of the project are to promote
efficient communications in support of economic growth through a series of
actions designed to: (a) assist Government in institutional reform aimed at
creating autonomous commercially oriented operating entities for both the
telecommunications and postal sectors, paving the way for private sector
participation; (b) support the implementation of a sensible investment
program in these sectors; (c) improve coverage and enhance quality and
efficiency of telecommunications services; and (d) ensure adequate coverage
and service improvement in the postal sector. The project will also further
public enterprise sector reform by providing a concrete example of how to
ensure the appropriate operating and financial autonomy of two of the largest
public entities.
46.       Project Description.   The project has two major components:
institutional reform and training, leading to autonomy in the postal sector
and eventual privatization of telecommunications operations; and a part of
the national investment program, consisting mainly of key maintenance
equipment for telecommunications and buildings and equipment to improve
postal services.   Specifically, the IDA Credit proceeds would support:
(a) technical assistance for setting up the legal framework and putting in
place the organizational structures, commercial management capabilities and
systems for the new companies which are expected to be created no later than
June 30, 1992 ($2.3 million); (b) training for posts and telecommunications
staff, rehabilitation of the training center and scholarships ($2.5 million);
(c) priority components of the telecommunications investment program to
secure the long distance network, create public telephones and improve
maintenance ($4.8 million); and (d) the postal sector investment program
consisting of construction of a mail sorting center, rehabilitation of main
post offices and creation of eight new rural post offices, and vehicles for
new postal links between Kigali and the main provincial towns ($3.2 million).
Total project costs are estimated at $16.7 million and foreign exchange
requirements at $14.3 million, or 85 percent of project costs. A breakdown
of costs is shown in Schedule A, along with the project financing plan.
Methods of procurement and disbursement as well as the disbursement schedule
are presented in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events
is given in Schedule C and the status of Bank and IFC investments in Schedule



- 14 -
D. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 09042-RW dated November 19, 1990, is being
distributed separately.
47.       Actions Agreed.   The Government has agreed with the Bank on a
three-year investment program in telecommunications and posts. Furthermore,
Bank approval will be required for additional investments costing more than
$1 million and  $0.5 million,  respectively.   The Government will also
undertake, and implement the findings of, a study of communication tariffs,
taxes and dividends policy.   The Government has also agreed to budget
realistically its future consumption of  communications services.  A mid
point review of project implementation was also agreed. Additional agreed
actions are contained in the Statement of Communications Sector Policy (Staff
Appraisal Report No. 9042-RW, Annex 1) formally adopted by the Rwandese
authorities.  First, the Statement recalls the major goals to be achieved
through the reform, which are to relieve the Government from the burden of
managing a sector of a commercial and industrial nature, while freeing the
sector's operations and development from Government's budgetary constraints.
Second, the Statement reiterates the Government's decision to establish two
separate   autonomous   entities:        Societe   d'Economie   Mixte   des
Telecommunications (SEMT) and Regie des Postes (RP). The preparatory work
for the successful launching and effective operation of these entities will
be funded by the Credit and the hiring of consultants will be a condition of
effectiveness.    In  parallel,  the  Government  will  be  completing  the
legislative process for their creation.   The Government has agreed that
subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to the Bank will be entered into
requiring specifically that (i) the proceeds of the Credit be onlent to the
SEMT at the IBRD rate and to the RP at 4 percent; (ii) the telecommunications
company earn an annual return on average net fixed assets of no less than 10
percent, while the postal authority maintain an operating ratij of not more
than 90 percent; (iii) the two companies review their investment program with
the Bank; and (iv) the two companies produce financial statements audited by
independent auditors within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
48.       Benefits.  In the context of the proposed operation, the Government
has put together a four-year investment program emphasizing least-cost
solutions for high priority investments, while ensuring efficient sector
development and profitability. This program will raise telephone and postal
density by 50 percent and 30 percent respectively, bringing Rwanda closer to
the Sub-Saharan average.   Under conservative assumptions, the Government
program agreed with the Bank has an economic rate of return of 25 percent.
The investment program in the communications sector after 1994 will be fully
financed from internal cash generation and private, domestic or foreign
borrowing.   There will also be benefits from improved sector management
resulting from the creation of autonomous entities supported by the project
which cannot be quantified. These include improving and maintaining at high
levels the quality of service, increasing staff productivity and upgrading
billing and collection performance.
49.       Promotion of private sector initiative in industry and trade is
a major objective of Rwanda's development strategy. Improved telecommunica-
tions services will benefit export-oriented ventures and will facilitate
the supply response from the productive sectors.   Increased availability
of telecommunications services will also promote activity in the service



- 15 -
sectors, particularly banking. The public sector will also benefit from the
introduction of efficient management into a sector that represents approxi-
mately 6 percent of total public enterprise employment. The project, through
improved communications, will also enhance coordination within the adminis-
tration, and between public departments and their private counterparts.
50.       Risks. There are two principal risks of the project.  First, there
is the risk that delays in putting in place the agreed independent entities
may postpone the introduction of efficient management in the sector. This
risk has been minimized by: (i) a long dialogue with key ministries on the
value of establishing independent entities, culminating with the adoption
of the Statement of Communications Sector Policy; and (ii) starting the
preparation for establishing the new companies well in advance of project
implementation and by financing a management consulting firm that will help
set up efficient commercial and financial structures, introduce systems and
procedures, and train staff. The second risk is that poor coordination and
supervision of project implementation could lead to delays and cost overruns.
This risk will be reduced through close donor coordination ensuring maximum
coherence of different subprojects, and by retaining consulting services for
project implementation and supervision.
51.       Recommendation.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 19, 1990



- 16 -                                SCHEDULE A
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN
Local     Foreign    Total   X of Total
I. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Institutional Reform          0.1        1.5        1.6       10.
Maintenance equipment          -         0.9        0.9        S.
Public call stations          0.1         1.4       1.5        9
Microwave links               0.1         1.5       1.8        9
Vehicles                       -         0.3        0.3        2
Training                       -          1.8       1.8       11
Sub-total                 a.         7.4        47.
Physical contingencies        0.0        0.3        0.3        2
Price contingencies            0.3        0.8       1.1        7
Sub-total                 0.3         1 14                 9
TOTAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS      0.6        8.5        9.1       56
II. POSTAL SERVICES
Institutional Reform            -         0.8        0.8        S
Postal sorting center          0.6         1.7       2.3       14
Construction rehabilitation
of post offices               0.3        0.8        1.1        6
Equipment                       -          1.0       1.0        6
Vehicles                        -          0.2       0.2        1
Training                       0.1         0.4       0.5        3
Ing4nieurs conseil              -         0.2        0.2        1
Sub-total                 1 05.1               .T1        3e
Physical contingencies         0.3         0.3       0.6        4
Price contingencies            0.6         0.4       0.9        5
Sub-total                 0 8        O7         16
TOTAL POSTAL SERVICES           1.8        5.8       7.8       45
TOTAL PROJECT COST             2.4        14.3      16.7      100
Financing Plan
I. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
IDA                       0.2        7.9        8.1       49
FAC                        -         0.6        0.8        4
DGT/SEUT                  0.4          -        0.4        2
TOTAL                                       9.1
II. POSTAL SERVICES
IDA                       0.2        4.5        4.7       28
DGP/RP                    1.8        1.3        2.9       17
TOTAL                 1.8        6.8        7.6      -ig
TOTAL PROJECT                2.4        14.3      16.7      100
*(TOTAL IDA:  TWO SECTORS)   0.4       12.4       12.8       77
Financing Sources
IDA                          0.4       12.4       12.8       77
FAC                           -          0.e       0.8        4
DGT/SEMT                     0.4          -        0.4        2
DGP/RP                       1.8         1.3       2.9       17
TOTAL                  2.4       14.8       18.7      100



- 17 -                              SCHEDULE B
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
I. Procurement Arranzements: a/
Project Component                    ICe        LIB c/       LCB d/     OTHER e/        TOTAL
----------------   in 8 million) ------------------
1. Training a consultancy equipment                0.1 (0.1)                             0.1 (0. 1)
2. Telecom equipment procured prior                0.1 (0.1)                             0.1 (0.1)
to creation of the entitles
3. Public telephones installed         0.2 (0.2)                                         0.2 (0.2)
prior to creation of the entities
4. Telecom equipment procured after   3.5 (3.5)                             0.9 (0.6)   4.4 (4.0)
the creation of the entitles
S. Postal equipment procured prior                 0.1 (0.1)                             0.1 (0.1)
to creation of the entities
6. Postal equipment procured after    1.0 (1.0)   0.1 (0.1)                              1.1 (1.1)
the creation of the entities
7. Postal buildings                    2.7 (1.6)                1.6 (0)                  4.3 (1.6)
8. Vehicles                            0.8 (0.6)                                         0.6 (0.6)
9. Consultants and training                                                 5.8 (5.0)   5.8 (6.0)
TOTAL                          8.0 (8.9)   0.4 (0.4)   1.6 (0)      6.7 (5.5)  16.7(12.8)
%                               47 (54)      2 (3)       11 (0)      40 (43)    100 (100)
a/     Costs Include proportionate contingency, excluding work force and force account.
*6/j    IDA financing in parentheses.
cf     Limited International Bidding.
7/     Local Competitive Bidding.
i/     Other includes Bank's Guidelines for the use of consultants, and proprietary Items.
II.   Disbursements:
Postal      Telecom
Category                            Component   Component    Percentage Financed
1. Tralning A consultancy equipment                   0.1        100% of foreign expenditure
2. Telecom equipment procured prior                   0.1        100% of foreign expenditures
to creation of the entities
8. Public telephones installed prior                  0.2        100% of foreign expenditures
to creation of the entities
4. Telecom equipment procured after                   3.1        100% of foreign expenditures
the creation of the entities
5. Postal equipment procured prior        0.1                    100% of foreign expenditures &
to creation of the entities
6. Postal equipment procured after        0.9                    100% of foreign expenditures &
the creation of the entities
7. Postal buildings                       1.3                    S0% of total expenditures
8. Vehicles                               0.2         0.8        100% of foreign expenditures
9. Consultants and training               0.8         1.7        100% of foreign expenditures &
90% of local expenditures
10. Refunding of project                  0.9         0.8
preparation advance
Subtotal                         4.2         6.1
11. Unallocated                                 2.6
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT                    12.8
Estimated IDA Disbursements:                     IDA Fiscal Year
FY91     FY92    FY93     FY94      FY95
---S Million Equivalent---------
Annual                              0.5      2.8     6.5       3.0      1.0
Cumulative                          0.5      3.3     8.8      11.8     12.8



- 18 -                         SCHEDULE C
TIMETABLE FOR KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)  First IDA Mission                           November 1988
(b)  Appraisal Mission Departure                  February 1989
(c)  Post Appraisal                              August 1990
(d)  Negotiations                                 October 1990
(e)  Board Presentation                          December 1990
(f)  Planned Effectiveness                       May 1991



l 19                              SCHEDULE D
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
I. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1990)
Amount In USS million
Loan or     Fiscal                                     (less canc61lations)  Undle-   Closing
Credit No.    Year   Borrower   Purpose                  Bank         IDA      bursed      Date
22 Credit(s) closed                                                222.22
C12630-RWA    1982    Rwanda    Second Education                    10.00      1.68    C/30/89 
C12830-RWA    1983    Rwanda    Bugesera II                         16.30        .9b    12/31/91 (R)
C16480-RWA    1986    Rwanda    Agri. Research                      11.50      4.44    12/31/91 (R)
C1606-RWA    1985    Rwanda    TAS Public Sector Mg.                4.80      3.81    OW/02 Q9
C16410-RWA    1988    Rwanda    Highways VI                         11.00      6.81    12/31/90
C16500-RWA    1986    Rwanda    BRD IV                               9.00      4.07    12/31/93
C16690-RWA    1986    Rwanda    Citarama Svcs. Agr.                 12.70      5.82    09/30/91
C16780-RWA    1988    Rwanda    Family Healtn                       10.80     10.70    06/30/92
C16830-RWA    1988    Rwanda    Education III                       16.60     12.47    12/31/91
C17830-RWA    1987    Rwanda    Water Supply II                     16.00      9.10    12/31/94
C17980-RWA    1987    Rwanda    Public Sector Mg                     7.40      7.74    12/31/94
C18110-RWA    1987    Rwanda    Forestry II                         14.10     12.20    06/30/93
CA0081-RWA    1988    Rwanda    Highways VI                         10.00     11.13    12/31/90
C20260-RWA    1989    Rwanda    Agric. Services                     19.90     20.63    06/30/96
C20410-RWA    1989    Rwanda    Urban Inst.                         32.00     34.51    12/31/96
C21130-RWA1   1990    Rwanda    Public Enterprise                    4.40      4.73    12/31/94
C21360-RWA'   1990    Rwanda    Transport Sector                    40.00     43.27    06/30/97
TOTAL number Credits = 17                                      244.60    193.96
TOTAL                            466.72
of which repaid                    9.00
TOTAL held by Bank and IDA       467.72
TOTAL undisbursed                          193.96
/   Not yet effective
?R) Indicates formally revised Closing Date
II. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1990)
Investment                                                       Loan      Equity     Total
Number       FY      Project Name     Type of Business         --------8 Million--------
337-RW      1976    SORMATHE          Food t Food Proc          0.6                  0.6
470-RW      1979                                                0.2       0.1        0.3
764-RW                                                          0.8                  0.3
1028-RW              SORWAL            Manufacturing              e        0.2        0.2
Total Gross Commitments                           1.0      0.3         1.3
Less: cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustments, repayments,
write-offs, and sales                     0.9       0.1        1.0
Total Commitments held by IFC                     0.1      0.2         0.3
Total Undisbursed                                 0.0      0.0         0.0
Total Disbursed                                   0.1      0.2         0.3
o Loan guarantee of 82.1 million provided by IFC.



- 20  -                                       SCHEDULE  E
COUNTRY ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL INDICATORS
tsas    137t   19181   1"9   t1O        1991    193      19S3    1914 . 1865
a,y ftm RatOs
seP stl    d2t -.5                               .   3 .7S   15.5    e.ss    8.          3.7.    4.51    4.tS    4.:
Grewrc   Olc I- (1.C)                  18.12    4.3    2.08   14.   40.9S        1.r1    4.3S    4.5S    4.4      4.3
Groe  c aita                            2.41   -7.7n   -1.12   ..7s   4.3    -2.3%   0.8s    a.ss    0.1   0Q7X
Pilvate t4umlo Per omift                3.3    -1.12  -3.2%  -11.a    -5.42   -2.ZS    0.12    0.2S    0.3s    0.3%
Ibrey X  cedi
Oanetlc credit                         -1.3S   23.1%   23.n   13f.9%   X.9S    S.M    7.4        4.2%       .      .
Govrnt                               -t.lX   t49.D5   25.1S   24.3%   48.8    -t.3%   -3.2%  -11.3       .       .
Private secor                       -4.2%    0.3. 5     .11   1I.=     6.4S   18.3%  .14.0    12.3        .
iW     ad  as-wwy (la)                 13.5    10.13   7.4   -4.23   14.11   22.2%   11.71    6.4.
interest rate (ae.ear swinp do.)        5.0     5.08    5.      5.0      ..       ..      ...     .        .       :
External Oeot
Omw Service (mill. t3)                 19.4    27.8  2V.5   27.1    23.7    24.3    25.2   23.1    2.    27.7
of wiIch: lItest   (mill. Mg)         5.4     7.4    0.4    ?.         8.5     8.0     8.8      9.0     9.3     9.7
OeOt ServiceA0Ws (2)                    8.5s   16.51   17.11   18.31   18.51   15.SS-  14.S5   12.3S   12.5   11.31
Total Cect/P                           20.81   24.9%   25.1s   25.5    25.31   23.51   22.6s   22.9%   23.    23.2
Ratios to E
Gross investat                         15.5%   15.5   15.71   15.11   15.65   18.51   17.51.  17.11   17.3   17.11
:Istic Savlngs                          8.11    6.3    8.41    8. 1     6.4%    7.31    8.11    6.5    9.41    S.
Natli Savings                          8.3%    8.        i 6.5S    6.0=    6.0%    8.95  7.     8.11    6.4   * 9.5
Private InvestWt                        8.3     5.5S    7.11    7.4X    8.2%    9.51    9.0      8.11    9.5G   9.1.
Governasit Reverwe                     13.B   12.5l      13.11   13.5   12.31   13.2S   13.41S  13.51   13.5S   13.5S
Gver t Rsvetms C4 GantS                18.51   15.5S   18.5;  17.2%   16.11   18.5Z   15.5   15.8S   15.71    S.5S
Goverrawt exo lre                      21.2:   3.9    21.11   21.5S   21.5%  19.5S  18.71   17.65   16.5   18.5%
Overall Fiscal  f lCIt (incl. ants)   .4.71    .8.S   -5.23  -4.31   -5.5%   -3.41   -2.51   -1.8S   -1.23   -Q.S
Overal l Fiscal OWiolt (tac. ents)    -7.41  -10.41   4.11   -7.1   -9.2%  -4.71   -5.35   -4.11   -3.4S   -3.0S
Excrt v      relue rats                  17.85    1.5S -21.5S  2.7S   14.42    1.5S  2.51    4.a8    4.51    5.a%
Exoorts/w  (3)                           11.71    T.5U   8.5%   8.51    8.71    8.08    7.71.-  7.s        8.3    8.1S
!urt volme graft rate                    13.11   -4.5      l -0.11   4.08   -5.5  1.5    2.71    3.08    3.51    3.41
i Prlv       (3)                        2t.2S   18.4S   18.1S   17.58   17.8%   2t.9%   18.7   Is. 1%   17.7S   17.32
C.rrant A=tt (!f I. 3US) (4)           -186.2  -32.9  -M.2   -2.7  -23.7  -24.8  -25.2  -26.6  -25.2  -278.1
Oxrra t A=-.    (4)                      -9.68  -111.7   -11.39  -10.72  -11.3%  -13.3S  -11.39  -10.3%   -0.7      8.2%
Gross Oficial Remvg (ofill. US)         182.1   1l3.1   118.0   70.1    2.4    72.0   108.1   119.5   123.5   138.4
(ortra of luts)                         5.3     5.1     3.8    2.4       1.2     2.3     3.3     3.8      3.6     3.7
Not Officlal Resrves (sill. U)          144.8   134.4   97.8   54.1    21.2    59.7    84.8   IQ.M   108.5  *118.8
(nitrw of 1io)                          5.0     4.6     3.2    1.9      0.8      2.0     2.7     3.0      3.0    3.0
(1) GOP at otant orices adJtA  * r pIrg   ad I==  In VW Wu of tad.
(2) XGWFSa * Ex0c2tJ o   %          an       i  .lcn.
3) leots arId Ev"tr Tui iufaW   wvlcs.
(4) xciUdln off ilal erat.



r~~~~~~~ ,
RWANDA                                                                              Ct
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS                                        U G A N D A
EXISTING AND PROJECTED TELEPHONE FACILITIES                                                                                           IA
MINISTERE DES TRANSPORTS ET COMMUNICATIONS
RESEAU TELEPHON.QUE E&JSTANT TEXTENSIONS                                 'ka
______Planned Digital Links
Liaison Numrfque en Projet
o    Planned Digital Exchanges                        s    ru                         i                                            !
Centrau Nu,ques en Proet                                                                       Byumba
_ _ Existing Digital Unks                                            ra
Liaison Numbique Existante
Existing Analog Uniks
Liason Anakogique Eistante
OExsting Digital Exchanges                                                                      D.W.
Centraux Numbriques BdstantsRwawauba
*     Radio Relay                                                 Rubengera
Re/a/s Her, ens
,,  s    - .*ll\   /      ~~Gitararna        Nyamrnirnbo/.\                       
International Boundaries
Frondteres Internatiomaes                                            Ruhngo
f  t  { /   j    /    5                /      e                       f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ibungo/
ZAIRE   iJ({GANDA/t!parb                                             
RWA A           --  KENYA            .vrsih                         i;noo         Rbn                      ,|                         TNAI
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Z  \Jr C              5        xiyabitimbo                                                  .   # 7            r~~~~~~~~Nybis
3 $sURUo0t < ,/                                          l                              Blar      n  @%Tumba  BURUNDI C 
Ar                TANZANIA
eo          SURUNba                                                                                         BURUNDI BURUNDI I
o                                                                                                                                                        0~~~AZNA  kna



