Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2189 RW
                  (Second Communications Project)
                              between
                         RWANDESE REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated January 30, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2189 RW
               DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 30, 1991, between the RWANDESE
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Page  2
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this Agreement, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "MINITRANSCO" means the Borrower's Ministcre des Trans-
ports et des Communications;
      (b)   "DGP" means the Direction Generale des Postes within
MINITRANSCO;
      (c)   "DGT" means the Direction Generale des Telecom-
munications within MINITRANSCO;
      (d)   "SEMT" means Societe d'Economie Mixte des Tele-
communications, a mixed enterprise telecommunications company to be
created by the Borrower as provided for in paragraph 3 (b) (i) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (e)   "RP" means Regie des Postes, an autonomous public postal
entity to be created by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph 3
(c) (i) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means either of the two
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and SEMT and RP,
respectively, in accordance with paragraphs 3 (b) (ii) and 3 (c)
(ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and in accordance with Schedule
5 to this Agreement;
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (h)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower,
which runs concurrently with the calendar year; and
      (i)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 22, 1990 and November
14, 1990, between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank of Rwanda on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
Page  3
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15
commencing April 15, 2001 and ending October 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15,
2010 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Page  4
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                           ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall:
      (a)   carry out Parts A.3 (a) and A.4 of the Project and,
until the creation of SEMT and RP, the other parts of the Project
through MINITRANSCO with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
and public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project; and
      (b)   upon the creation of SEMT and RP: (i) cause SEMT and RP
to carry out Parts A.1, A.3 (b) (ii) and B of the Project, and Parts
A.2, A.3 (b) (i) and C of the Project, respectively, in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement, through 2 Subsidiary Loan
Agreements under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association and which shall include those set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii) take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SEMT and RP
to carry out the Project and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1992, furnish to
the Association a plan of action for resource mobilization,
satisfactory to the Association, based on the recommendations
acceptable to the Association of the study referred to in Part A.3
(a) of the Project.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1992, furnish
to, and review with, the Association the recommendations of the
study referred to in Part A.3 (b) of the Project.
      Section 3.05. Beginning January 1, 1993, the Borrower shall
take all actions necessary to cause each of its departments to pay
their respective bills for telecommunication services no later than
90 days after receipt thereof.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall set forth performance targets
for the period 1992 through 1995 for postal and telecommunications
services in a letter, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, to be delivered to the Association. The Borrower shall,
through DGT and DGP, meet such targets and, upon the creation of
SEMT and RP, cause such entities to meet such targets, provided that
such performance targets for 1993, 1994 and 1995 shall be reviewed
by the Borrower and the Association prior to September 30 of the
preceding year, and may be modified by mutual agreement.
Page  5
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out no earlier than
June 30, 1992, and no later than September 30, 1992, jointly with
the Association, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying
out the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the
                   Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all actions necessary to
reduce arrears from private sector and parastatal customers for
telecommunication services to less than 25% of consumption of such
customers over the 12 last known billed months.
Page  6
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   SEMT or RP shall have failed to perform any of their
obligations under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that SEMT or RP will be able to
perform their obligations under the respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreements.
      (c)   The legislation establishing SEMT or RP shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of SEMT or RP to perform any of
their obligations under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of SEMT or RP, or for the suspension of their operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                           ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the consultants necessary to carry out Parts A.1 and A.2
of the Project shall have been employed by the Borrower on terms and
conditions and under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association; and
      (b)   the Borrower shall have delivered to the Association the
performance targets letter referred to in Section 3.06 of this
Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministcre des Finances
Page  7
            B.P. 158 Kigali
            Rwanda
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MINIFIN-RWANDA            22687 MINFIN-RW
     For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         RWANDESE REPUBLIC
                         By /s/ Aloys Uwimana
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Equipment under               70,000      100% of foreign
      Part A of the                             expenditures
      Project
(2)   Equipment under               70,000      100% of foreign
      Part B.1 (a) of                           expenditures
      the Project
(3)   Equipment under              140,000      100% of foreign
      Part B.2 (a)                              expenditures
      of the Project
Page  8
(4)   Equipment under            2,150,000      100% of foreign
      Parts B.1 (b),                            expenditures
      B.2 (b) and B.3
      of the Project
(5)   Equipment under               70,000      100% of foreign
      Part C.1 (a) of                           expenditures  and
      the Project                               90% of local
                                                expenditures
(6)   Equipment under              630,000      100% of foreign
      Parts C.1 (b)                             expenditures and
      and C.2  of the                           90% of local
 Project                                        expenditures
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(7)   Civil Works under            900,000      50%
      Part C.2 of the
      Project
(8)   Vehicles:                                 100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
      (a) under Part B.1           210,000
          of the Project
      (b) under Part C.3           140,000
          of the Project
(9)   Consultants'                              100% of foreign
      services and                              expenditures and
      training:                                 90% of local
                                                expenditures
      (a) under Parts A.1,       1,180,000
          A.3 (a), A.3 (b)
          (ii) and A.4 (a)
          of the Project
      (b) under Parts A.2,         560,000
          A.3 (b) (i) and
          A.4 (b) of the
          Project
(10)  Refunding of               1,040,000      Amount due pur-
      Project Preparation                       suant to Section
      Advance                                   2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(11)  Unallocated                1,740,000
                                 _________
            TOTAL                8,900,000
                                 =========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made:
      (a)   for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
      (b)   under Category (4) unless and until:
            (i)   a mixed enterprise telecommunications company to
                  be known as the Societe d'Economie Mixte de
Page  9
                  Telecommunications (SEMT) has been created in a
                  manner satisfactory to the Association; and
           (ii)   the Borrower has entered into a Subsidiary Loan
                  Agreement satisfactory to the Association with
                  SEMT, in accordance with Schedule 5 to this
                  Agreement; and
      (c)   under Categories (6) and (7) unless and until:
            (i)   an autonomous public postal entity to be known as
                  the Regie des Postes (RP) has been created in a
                  manner satisfactory to the Association; and
           (ii)   the Borrower has entered into a Subsidiary Loan
                  Agreement satisfactory to the Association with
                  RP, in accordance with Schedule 5 to this
                  Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to promote efficient
communications to support economic growth in the territory of the
Borrower through, among other things, institutional reform and
related investments aimed at creating autonomous commercially
oriented operating entities for both the telecommunications and
postal sectors.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Reforms
1.    Strengthening of DGT and, upon its creation, SEMT in the
following areas:
      (a)   financial management;
      (b)   commercial management, including general organization,
planning and subscriber management;
      (c)   human resource management;
      (d)   management information systems; and
      (e)   security management.
2.    Strengthening of DGP and, upon its creation, RP in the
following areas:
      (a)   financial management;
      (b)   commercial management, including development strategy,
general organization and logistics; and
      (c)   human resource management.
3.    Carrying out of studies on:
      (a)   how to increase resource mobilization in the Borrower's
telecommunications and postal sectors (for example, through taxes
and dividends, and taking into account prospective demand for such
services); and
      (b)   the structure and level of (i) postal tariffs, and (ii)
telecommunications tariffs.
4.    (a)   Carrying out of a training program for employees in the
Borrower's telecommunications sector and, upon its creation,
Page  10
employees of SEMT (including training of trainers and awarding of
scholarships).
      (b)   Carrying out of a training program for employees in the
Borrower's postal sector and, upon its creation, employees of RP
(including training of trainers and awarding of scholarships).
      (c)   Acquisition of training aids and laboratory equipment,
and rehabilitation of the Borrower's Ecole Nationale des Postes et
Telecommunications.
Part B:     Telecommunications
1.    Acquisition of measuring equipment, micro-computers,
maintenance and workshop tools, equipment for network upgrading,
spares, and operations and maintenance vehicles by: (a) DGT, until
the creation of SEMT, and (b) SEMT, upon its creation.
2.    Acquisition of (a) about 50 public telephones and related
equipment by DGT, until the creation of SEMT, and (b) at least 250
public telephones and related equipment by SEMT, upon its creation.
3.    Acquisition and installation of digital microwave links with
associated multiplex equipment between Kirambo, Karongi, Gisenyi and
Mugogo to secure the existing long distance transmission network.
Part C:     Postal Services
1.    Acquisition of equipment for post offices by: (a) DGP, until
the creation of RP, and (b) RP, upon its creation.
2.    Construction of, and acquisition of equipment for, a mail
sorting center at Kigali.
3.   Acquisition of specialized vehicles for use in postal delivery
and distribution, and for other postal operations.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$40,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for postal equipment, measuring and
testing equipment, tools for workshops maintenance and training aids
and micro-computers estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or
Page  11
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded through limited inter-
national bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and com-
parison of bids obtained from at least three qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.    Proprietary items for spare parts and telecommunications
equipment for the workshops and training centers estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $500,000 may be procured through direct
contracting.
Part D:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (5), (8) and (9) and, following fulfillment of the
relevant conditions of disbursement described in paragraph 3 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, Categories (4), (6) and (7) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
Page  12
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
Page  13
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                           SCHEDULE 5
        Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
      The 2 Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into by the
Borrower with SEMT and RP respectively shall contain terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and
which shall include the following:
1.    That SEMT shall: (a) repay to the Borrower all amounts paid or
to be paid by the Borrower to the Association on account of
withdrawals made for Parts A.1, A.3 (a), A.3 (b) (ii), A.4 (a) and
B of the Project over a period of no more than 15 years, including
a grace period of no more than five years, and (b) prepay such loan
based on its available funds.
2.    That RP shall repay to the Borrower all amounts paid or to be
paid by the Borrower to the Association on account of withdrawals
made for Parts A.2, A.3 (b) (i), A.4 (b) and C of the Project over
a period of 20 years, including a five year grace period.
3.    That SEMT and RP shall pay interest on the amounts withdrawn
as specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 above, respectively, and out-
standing at the rate of 7.72% per annum for SEMT and 4% per annum
for RP.
4.    That SEMT and RP shall, by June 30, 1993, implement the
recommendations acceptable to the Association of the study referred
to in Part A.3 (b) of the Project.
5.    That SEMT and RP shall carry out their respective Parts of the
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and
shall carry on their operations and conduct their affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, and postal or
Page  14
telecommunications, as the case may be, practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
6.    That SEMT and RP shall at all times operate and maintain their
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, and
postal or telecommunications, as the case may be, practices.
7.    That SEMT and RP shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
8.    That SEMT and RP shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices their
operations and financial condition.
9.    That SEMT and RP shall:
      (a)   have their records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
      (b)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of their financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
      (c)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well
as the audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
10.   That SEMT and RP shall, for the duration of the Project, each
review their three-year revolving construction programs with the
Association and the Borrower at least once a year and shall not
undertake any new construction expenditure in excess of $1,000,000
equivalent in the case of SEMT and $500,000 equivalent in the case
of RP without the prior consent of both the Association and the
Borrower.
11.   That SEMT shall, beginning January 1, 1993, take all actions
necessary to reduce arrears from private sector and parastatals
customers for telecommunication services to less than 25% of
consumption of such customers over the 12 last known billed months.
12.   (a)   That, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
SEMT shall earn, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year
ending on December 31, 1992, an annual return of not less than 10%
of the average current net value of SEMT's fixed assets in
operation.
      (b)   Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, SEMT
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by SEMT and satisfactory
to the Association, review whether it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that SEMT would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for SEMT's fiscal years
covered by such review, SEMT shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such
requirements.
Page  15
      (d)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
                  SEMT's net operating income for the fiscal year
                  in question by one half of the sum of the current
                  net value of SEMT's fixed assets in operation at
                  the beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
           (ii)   The term "net operating income" means total
                  operating revenues less total operating expenses.
          (iii)   The term "total operating revenues" means
                  revenues from all sources related to operations.
           (iv)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
                  expenses related to operations, including
                  administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and                  
payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
                  depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate
                  of not less than 7% per annum of the average
                  current gross value of SEMT's fixed assets in
                  operation, or other basis acceptable to the
                  Association, but excluding interest and other
                  charges on debt.
            (v)   The average current gross value of SEMT's fixed
                  assets in operation shall be calculated as one-
                  half of the sum of the gross value of SEMT's
                  fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at
                  the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time
                  to time in accordance with sound and consistently
                  maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
                  the Association.
           (vi)   The term "current net value of SEMT's fixed
                  assets in operation" means the gross value of
                  SEMT's fixed assets in operation less the amount
                  of accumulated depreciation, as valued from time
                  to time in accordance with sound and consistently
                  maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
                  the Association.
13.   (a)   That, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
RP shall maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal
year ending on December 31, 1992, for each of its fiscal years a
ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not
higher than 90%.
      (b)   Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, RP
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by RP and satisfactory to
the Association, ascertain whether it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of the next following fiscal
year, and shall furnish to the Association the results of such
review upon its completion.
      (c)   If any review shows that RP would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for RP's fiscal years
covered by such review, RP shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such
requirements.
      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
                  expenses related to operations, including
                  administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                  payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
                  depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate
                  of not less than 5% per annum of the average
                  current gross value of RP's fixed assets in
                  operation, or other basis acceptable to the
Page  16
                  Association, excluding interest and other charges
                  on debt.
           (ii)   The term "total operating revenues" means
                  revenues from all sources related to operations.
          (iii)   The average current gross value of RP's fixed
                  assets in operation shall be calculated as one
                  half of the sum of the gross value of RP's fixed
                  assets in operation at the beginning and at the
                  end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to
                  time in accordance with sound and consistently
                  maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
                  the Association.
