Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4067-BO 
 
Development Policy Credit Agreement 
 
(Social Sector Programmatic Development Policy Credit II) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 22, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4067-BO 
 
DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter of 
development policy dated April 21, 2005 describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;  
 (B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in one single 
tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 
Page  3
2
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency  specified 
in Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, 
that withdrawals in the currency of the Borrower shall be made in such 
currency or currencies as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
select.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
 
on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Bilingual education” means the education in the Spanish and the Quechua, 
Guarani and Aymara languages to be used in the school system of the Borrower; 
(b) 
“Donor” means any country, bilateral or multilateral agency, public or private 
financial institution, development finance institution or international organization, which is 
proposing to make, or has made, financing available to the Borrower on a grant basis or under 
concessional terms to support a development program of the Borrower; 
(c) 
“DPT” means Diphtheria, Polio and Tetanus vaccine; 
Page  4
3
(d) 
“DUF” means 
Directorio Unico de Fondos, 
the Borrower’s Board responsible 
for the operation of social funds under the 
Ministerio sin cartera responsable de la 
participación popular
,
the
 
Borrower’s Ministry in charge of people’s  participation; 
 (e) 
“LDP” means the Borrower’s Letter of Development Policy referred to in the 
Preamble to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“MDGs” means the Millennium Development Goals established by the General 
Assembly of the United Nations to implement the Millennium Declaration unanimously 
adopted
 
in September 2000 by the Member States of the United Nations as a framework for 
measuring development progress in social sectors, most notably in health and education, and to 
be achieved by 2015;  
(g) “PLANE” 
means 
Plan Nacional de Empleo, 
the Borrower’s national 
plan/strategy for employment; 
(h) “PNC” 
means 
Política Nacional de Compensación, 
the Borrower’s policy of 
transfer allocations to municipalities based on population and poverty criteria; 
(i) “POMA” 
means 
Plan Operativo Multi Anual, 
means the Borrower’s Multi-
Annual Operational Plan 2004-2008 for the education sector; and 
(j) “RPS” 
means 
Red de protecci
ón social, 
the Borrower’s national network for 
social protection. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ten million Special Drawing Rights (SDR10,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program. 
 (b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree: (i) all withdrawals from the 
Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into an account in Dollars designated by 
the Borrower and acceptable to the Association
;
and (ii) the Borrower shall ensure that upon 
each deposit of an amount of the Credit into said account, an equivalent amount is accounted 
for in the Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.  
Page  5
4
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If 
the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Credit was used to make a 
payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually 
on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2015 and ending February 
15, 2040. Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 
2025, shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount. 
 
Page  6
5
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), 
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the 
Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
Page  7
6
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after 
the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association such information 
relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association may, from time to 
time, reasonably request. 
(b)  
Upon
 the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the 
account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified : 
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out;  
(b) 
the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become inconsistent 
with the objectives of the Program; and 
Page  8
7
(c) 
an action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program, including any action listed under Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in a 
manner that would, in the opinion of the Association, adversely affect the achievement of the 
objectives of the Program. 
Page  9
8
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination  
Section 5.01 The date October 20, 2005, is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
 
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19 
 
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n 
 La 
Paz, 
Bolivia 
 
Cable 
address: 
    
 FINANZA 
 La 
Paz, 
Bolivia 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of La Paz, Bolivia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
 
By
/s/ Eduardo Rodríguez Veltzé 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By/s/ Marcelo Giugale 
 
Acting Authorized Representative 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
Page  11
10 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit, loan, or grant; 
2.  
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations 
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
Page  12
11 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
Page  13
12 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party);  
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, 
if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  14
13 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) 
of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
Health and Nutrition Sector
1. 
Pursuant to the objective of reducing morbidity and mortality associated with 
transmissible diseases stated in the LDP, the Borrower has, between January 1, 2004 
and December 31, 2004: 
 
(a) 
increased  coverage with the third dose of DPT by at least 5 percentage 
points in no less than 40% of the municipalities chronically at risk; 
 
(b) 
maintained the malaria Annual Parasite Index (API) below or equal to 
5.0 in municipalities; 
 
(c) 
not experienced a chagas infestation rate above 3% in more than 16% of 
the municipalities in the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(d) 
succeeded in curing 85% of the new positive reported cases of 
tuberculosis (TB).  
 
Education Sector
2. 
Pursuant to the objective of fostering the institutionalization of participative 
democracy in the education sector stated in the LDP, and as set forth in the list of 
activities described in POMA, the Borrower has discussed POMA in 8 departmental 
congresses and 12 national workshops, and as a result thereof, has caused: (i) at least 36 
municipalities to distribute educational material by May  2005, and (ii) at least 20% of 
public schools to adopt the Bilingual Education method by May 2005. 
 
Social Protection
3. 
Pursuant to the objective of developing a national social protection strategy 
stated in the LDP, the Borrower has:  
 
(a) 
defined the general conceptual and technical framework of a national 
social protection strategy covering at least the RPS, PNC and PLANE programs 
supervised 
by the Borrower’s DUF, including, 
inter alia
,
the definition of: (i) 
populations at risk and their associated needs; (ii) strategic priorities; (iii) main 
Borrower’s interventions; (iv) budgetary requirements and investment timetable; and 
(v) the monitoring and evaluation system in relation thereto; and thereafter; 
 
Page  15
14 
 
(b) 
has initiated the implementation of said strategy through the following 
activities: 
 
(i) 
design and ensuing initiation of the implementation, in 25 
priority municipalities, of a nutrition plan to prevent chronic 
malnutrition and associated infant mortality; 
 
(ii) 
expansion of PLANE within the context of a fully operational 
RPS in order to mitigate the effects of unemployment, thereby 
committing funds to generate at least 200,000 temporary jobs 
between January 2004 and June 2005; and 
 
(iii) 
initiation on a pilot basis, conditional transfers to municipalities 
according to agreed changes to the Borrower’s conditional 
transfer policy for the allocation to municipalities of investment 
funds for the carrying out of projects related to the achievement 
of MDGs in the health sector. 
 
Participative Evaluation and Monitoring of MDGs
4. 
Pursuant to the objective of establishing participative monitoring of the actions 
towards achievement of the MDGs stated in the LDP, the Borrower has:  
 
(a) 
defined a strategy to ensure technical evaluation of the progress towards 
the achievement of the MDGs, including relevant links to the information systems and 
financing developments and requirements in relation thereto; 
 
(b) 
ensured the participation of civil society and Donors in the discussion 
events concerning the Borrower’s progress with respect to the MDGs; and 
 
(c) 
initiated the monitoring and participative evaluation of the MDGs and 
issued reports communicated to all organs of the Borrower’s government.
 
