Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1553 
Project Name 
Social Sector Programmatic Credit II 
Region 
Latin American and the Caribbean Region 
Sector 
Health/Social Protection 
Project ID 
P091365 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Bolivia 
Implementing Agency 
Viceministerio de Inversión Pública (VIPFE) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 7, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 14, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 26, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Bolivia remains one of the poorest and most unequal countries in the region.  It succeeded in reducing poverty and improving 
social indicators during the early and mid-1990s as a consequence of faster growth, targeted programs supported by increased 
resources (including HIPC resources), and deeper decentralization.  From 1992 to 2001, Unsatisfied Basic Needs (UBNs) and 
MDG-related indicators improved, although progress has been insufficient and uneven.  UBNs improved more in urban areas 
and many poor municipalities lagged behind.  
In the social sectors, outcomes have improved steadily over the last decade.  For example, maternal mortality dropped from 
416 per 100,000 live births in 1989 to 235 in 2003; infant mortality decreased from 89 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1989 to 
54 in 2003; and net enrollment in primary education increased from 74 percent in 1990 to 97 percent in 2000 while primary 
completion rates (8
th
 grade) increased from 55 percent in 1992 to 72 percent in 2001.  Similarly, national coverage of 
drinking water rose from 54 percent in 1992 to 72 percent in 2001.  These positive outcomes have been the result of an 
increased budgetary support in the social sectors, better policies, and an explicit decision to prioritize activities in these 
sectors.  Despite these achievements, most social indicators (primary education is a notable exception) are still markedly 
worse than other countries in the region, and significant progress is required to reduce that gap.  
Bolivia’s progress in improving social services and outcomes means that there is a good chance that many of the MDGs will 
be met or will be very close to the target by 2015.  If current trends continue, the goals of universal primary education and 
gender equality in primary education are likely to be met, and goals on reduced child mortality, improved maternal health, 
combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases, and access to safe drinking water could be reached with slight 
improvements in performance.  It is unlikely that the first goal of the MDGs (eradicate extreme poverty and hunger) will be 
achieved.  In order to maintain progress achieved in the social sector MDGs, it is critical to keep the social sectors on the 
national agenda, and this SSPC shows the Government’s commitment to do that.  
However, the current situation prevailing in Bolivia could not only halt further progress in social outcomes, but potentially 
even reverse some of these gains.  The economy is still fragile, although GDP growth has recovered from the economic crisis 
of the late 1990s and early 2000s and fiscal policy is being put on a path toward sustainability.  The volatile political context, 
highlighted by the recent spate of protests, has limited the Government’s freedom to maneuver.   
In this context, a commitment to a given set of policies may be seen as questionable.  But the impressive strides in greater 
participation of civil society in the design of social sector policies point toward greater consensus among different social 
actors regarding these policies. However the current situation is resolved, the Government will continue providing social 
services to the population, and essentially all sides of Bolivia’s political spectrum agree on the need to increase the quantity 
and improve the quality of those services.  The issues addressed by this program are central for Bolivia‘s development 
irrespective of how current circumstances evolve.  
The project continues the work laid out by the Social Sector Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit I (SSPSAC I). 
While the first phase focused on design of policies and interventions, this second phase begins their implementation in of the 
key social sectors and starts showing some of the outcomes resulting from these policies.  The third phase of the program is 
expected to implement most policies fully and show additional results.  
Page  2
The proposed credit is fully aligned with the CAS presented to the Board on January 8, 2004.  It clearly identified the role of 
this series of DPCs in supporting progress in the social sectors, highlighting that particular attention would be paid to 
reducing inequality in education, health and nutrition, and water and sanitation outcomes across municipalities, ethnic groups 
and income classes.  This credit is also consistent with the CAS progress report currently under preparation, which, given the 
current situation in Bolivia, will include the scope for a third DPC in the social sectors under this fragile context. The SSPC II 
is the only DPC operation scheduled for this fiscal year, and provides an anchor for the different policies that the Government 
is implementing in the social sectors, many of which are supported also by sectoral investment loans.  For FY06 the Bank 
will support Bolivia on a number of activities promoting institutional reforms and income generation, particularly in the rural 
and agriculture sector.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
This second phase of the 
SSPC
 series continues, 
through a DPC operation
,
to support Bolivia achieving selected MDGs 
through the implementation of a number of key social sector policies that were designed during the first phase of this 
program.  The SSPC II is  expected to support social sector policies with three broad goals in mind: (i) protecting the positive 
results reached in the last decade in increasing access to and quality of health and nutrition, education, water and sanitation, 
and social protection; (ii) implementing the sectoral policy frameworks designed under the first phase of this programmatic 
series to continue progress in social outcomes and move closer to achieving a number of specific Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) by 2015; and (iii) strengthening the capacity of both the Government and civil society to monitor and evaluate 
policies, increasing accountability and effectiveness. Implementing these policies will advance achievement of specific 
MDGs by 2015. 
The proposed series of SSPSACs would help the Government in maintaining progress in social sectors and improve access of 
the poor to basic services in health and nutrition, education, water and sanitation and social protection, by supporting the 
implementation of key actions as well as a greater results-based orientation in the social sectors. This is expected to lead to 
increased coverage in those sectors and put the country in a closer path to achieve the MDGs.  Efforts to improve 
accountability and transparency will enhance institutional sustainability of social policies through increased civil society 
engagement, making social programs more effective and sustainable. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The SSPC series was designed to help the Government maintain progress in health and nutrition, education, water and 
sanitation, and social protection at a time of fiscal constraints. An important aspect of this progress is to alleviate disparities 
in outcomes across different regions, ethnic groups and social classes, contributing toward achieving a number of MDGs. 
While successful reforms in these areas have contributed to improvements in social indicators in the last decade, the difficult 
economic and political situation of the last few years has shifted debate and attention away from the social sectors. There was 
a
risk that the Government, in its efforts to reform the productive sectors and promote job creation, may neglect to carry out 
addition
al actions required to maintain and accelerate needed progress in the social sectors. The Government’s continued 
commitment to the SSPC series is a strong signal of its determination to continue work in these areas.  
The issues that motivated the preparation of the SSPC series remain valid. This second phase of the SSPC continues its 
support to the Government’s Social Sectors Program.  The first phase of the series focused on the design of improved social 
sector policies to maintain progress in outcomes. This proposed second phase moves to start the implementation of those 
policies, and the tracking of social outcomes.  These policies relate not only to the specifics of how services are provided, but 
also measures to increase a results-based orientation in some programs, promote accountability and strengthen participatory 
monitoring of MDGs.  The planned third phase of the program is expected to implement most policies fully and show 
additional results.  
The SSPC Program series consisted originally of three single tranche credits; the first one, approved by the board in June 
2004, was for SDR 17.2 million (approximately US$25 million).  Given the special circumstances in the country, the 
resulting uncertainties and the need to discuss a new CAS by mid 2005, the amounts for the second and third credits were not 
discussed during the preparation of the first operation.  During the pre-identification mission for this operation it was agreed 
to disburse approximately the same amount as in the first SSPSAC.  However, in light of the recent events in the water sector 
(see section on Water and Sanitation below), the amount for this second loan has been reduced from approximately US$25 
million to US$15 million.  
During the preparation of the first SSPSAC, the Government and the Bank agreed on a number of benchmarks to be 
supported by the SSPC series to measure progress in achieving the objectives of the Government’s Social Sectors Program.  
Page  3
A
detailed set of benchmarks for the second and third phases is specified in the Policy Matrix.  All of the actions for the 
second phase are prior actions.  Among them however, some key actions have been defined as triggers or minimum 
conditions to proceed with this operation.  In the same fashion, the Bank and the Government have agreed on a set of 
minimum triggers that should be implemented in order to proceed with the processing of the third operation.  
The SSPC II will support the following actions in each sector:  
·
Health and Nutrition:
 Expand coverage of primary-level health care to underserved groups, increase cultural awareness 
of health service provision to indigenous people, and improve the functioning of the health service network.   
·
Education:
 Reach an agreement among stakeholders on the contents of the Bolivian Education Strategy through the 
national education council and departmental education congresses. Begin implementing interventions to increase 
completion rates in primary education, improve its quality, and improve secondary education.
 
·
Water and Sanitation:
 Put in effect the newly-created regulatory framework to improve the flow of public and private 
investment resources to expand coverage of potable water and sewage at a reasonable cost.
 
·
Social Protection:
 Begin implementation of a newly-created strategy of social protection interventions targeted to 
specific vulnerable groups, such as children and unemployed.
 
·
Accountability and Participatory Monitoring:
 This component, which cuts across all sectors, focuses on increasing 
citizen access to information, strengthening the co
untry’s capacity to monitor and evaluate progress in achieving MDGs 
and to improve dissemination of that information to help improve the provision of MDG-related social services.
 
4.    Environment Aspects 
 
Following OP8.60, the team considered whether the operation has any relevant aspects for the environment, forest and 
natural resources.  The two areas where a potential effect on the environment could be present are health and water and 
sanitation.  While some of the proposed actions are related to the health system, they do not have, directly or indirectly, an 
environmental effect, since they focus on the institutional arrangements between central and local governments, and 
improving the nutritional status of mothers and children through behavioral changes and adequate communications.  The 
World Bank, through LCSES, is assessing the country’s environmental policies and institutions, and the conclusions of that 
study will be incorporated into this document if available at the time of presentation to the Board or be taken into account for 
the preparation of the third phase.   
With respect to the water and sanitation actions, since the SSPC II is promoting the adoption of a financial policy that will 
increase coverage of water and sewerage systems, its impact will be positive, as this expansion will be done following strict 
environmental codes with the creation of the FUNDASAB, an entity that will provide technical assistance to providers of 
water and sanitation services in the country.  
In small and medium cities the environmental impact will be minimal and restricted to effects expected during the execution 
of small works like installation of small diameter water and sewerage networks and the construction of small wastewater 
treatment plants.  The environmental impact is limited and can easily be mitigated by instructing the constructors to use 
appropriate working methods and mitigation measures.  With respect to large cities, in La Paz/El Alto
the water supply 
systems are already in place. Only minor extension works are needed, most of them in El Alto, and their impact will be 
minimal, similar to the impact of works in small and medium cities. Wastewater treatment works, if constructed, might have 
major environmental impacts which would need to be properly addressed.  In Cochabamba
,
the wastewater treatment 
installation, if constructed, might have an environmental impact that would need to be properly addressed.  However the 
SSPC II is not providing specific financing for this activity.  In Santa Cruz
,
the most significant environmental impact is that 
of not taking any action with regards to its sewerage system.  Sewerage networks need to be built to expand coverage to all 
parts of the city and to expand the capacity of the existing two wastewater treatment plants.  The construction of the sewerage 
networks within the city will have an impact during construction, but this is not a major impact and it can be well mitigated. 
The expansion of the capacity of the treatment plants will have minor environmental impacts, if appropriate technology will 
be used to upgrade the plants.  
The main mitigating measure is adequate execution of works through the inclusion in the contracts of specifications of 
management of works within city limits.  This is a common practice and will be supported by documents which will be 
prepared by FUNDASAB.  As to all water and sanitation works in Cochabamba and to wastewater treatment works in La 
Paz/El Alto, the government will have to undertake comprehensive Environmental Assessment studies and act according to 
the recommendation of these studies.  
5.    Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Page  4
Total 15.0 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Daniel Dulitzky 
Task Team Leader 
Telephone: (202) 473-2528 
 
