Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15086-4AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 14, 1996
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =     Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1                 =     FMG 4,602 (August 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kV                   =     kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kW                   =     kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW                   =     Megawatt
kVA                  =     kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA                  =     megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
kWh                  =     kilowatt-hour (1,000 watt-hour)
GWh                  =     gigawatt-hour (I million kilowatt-hour)
km                   =     kilometer
kgoe                 =     kilogram of oil equivalent
toe                  =     tons of oil equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABEDA                =     Arab Bank for Economic Development of Africa
CFD                  =     French Development Agency
DE                  =      Directorate of Energy
EIB                 =      European Investment Bank
EIRR                =      Economic Internal Rate of Retum
FANALAMANGA    =           Parastatal owner of pine plantation near Antananarivo
JIRAMA               =     Madagascar's Utility for Electricity and Water
LPG                 =      Liquified Petroleum Gas
LRMC                =      Long-Run Marginal Cost
MEM                 =      Ministry of Energy and Mines
PMU                  =     Project Management Unit
PPF                 =      Project Preparation Facility
SOE                  =     Statement of Expenditure
SOLIMA               =     National Petroleum Company
UPED                =      Household Energy Planning Unit, within the DE
WTP                  =     Willingness To Pay
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary  .......................................   i
1.    PROJECT  SETTING  AND  RATIONALE  .........................    1
The Project's Contribution to Poverty Reduction and Economic Growth   . ..   1
The Energy Balance ......................................    2
Lessons and Principles incorporated in Project Design  ...............   3
II.  INSTITUTIONAL  ISSUES  ...................................    4
Overview  .............................................    4
The Electric Power Subsector  ...............................   4
JIRAMA's Present Structure and Operations  .....................   6
The Woodfuels Subsector  ..................................    7
Energy Efficiency  .......................................    8
III. DEMAND AND SUPPLY. PRICING. AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY.                                         8
Overview.                                                                               8
The Electricity Subsector.                                                              8
JIRAMA's Power Facilities: Present Situation and Needs .10
JIRAMA's Investment Program .12
The Need to Extend Electrification in the Country .12
The Woodfuels Subsector .13
Energy Efficiency .15
IV.    THE   PROJECT    ..........................................                             16
Project Objectives .16
Project Description .16
Project Preparation .17
Project  Costs  ..........................................                             18
Financing Plan .18
Project Implementation .19
Disbursements .19
Procurement .21
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing .22
Environmental Considerations .23
Project Monitoring and Supervision .23
V.  FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS  OF JIRAMA  ..........................  24
Introduction  ...........................................  24
Overal Operations  ......................................   24
Electricity Section  .......................................   25
Restructuring Recommendations ..............................  27
Financing Plan  .........................................   28
Future Finances  ........................................   29



Table of Contents (Page 2)
VI. BENEFITS. RISKS, ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS AND ECONOMIC
ANALYSIS ............................................  30
A. BENEFITS ..          .......................................  30
B. COST RECOVERY  ...................................  31
C. COST-BENEFIT AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS ......                 .........  31
D. RISKS    ............................................  34
E. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY ANALYSIS .................... 34
F. POVERTY ANALYSIS .................................  35
G. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ........... ..                  ...............  35
H. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS  .......... ..                 ..............  36
I. OVERALL ASSESSMENT  ...............................  36
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION                            .        .     36
Agreements Reached During Negotiations ......... ..        .............  36
Conditions of Effectiveness ...............         ..................  37
Condition of Disbursement for the Electrification Program  .... ........ 37
Recommendation    ................... .....................  37
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Madagascar in June/July 1993
which consisted of Messrs. Angel Baide (Task Manager), Power Engineer; Noureddine
Bouzaher, Senior Economist; Richard Senou, Senior Financial Analyst; Robert Van der Plas,
Domestic Energy Specialist; Ms. Rangaswamy Vedavalli, Principal Economist; Stephen Gaull,
Financial Analyst; Mario Zenteno, Consultant for the institutional reform component; Georges
Maestrini, Consultant for human resources management and training in JIRAMA; Edward
Gaither, Geoffrey Smith and Marc Methe, Consultants for the electrification program.
The financial analysis of JIRAMA was updated by Mr. John G. Davis, Financial Analyst
(consultant) during a pre-negotiations mission in June 1994, and again by JIRAMA in August
1995. Ms. Lily Wong provided secretarial support in the preparation of the report.
Mr. lain T. Christie and Mr. Andrew Rogerson are the managing Division Chief and the
Department Director, respectively, for the operation.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project
ANNEXES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ANNEX I
Annex 1.1        Energy Balance, 1993  .............................  38
Annex 1.2        Project Experience In Madagascar and Lessons Learned  ...       .....  39
ANNEX II
Annex 2.1   Statement of Sector Policy .40
ANNEX III
Annex 3.1        JIRAMA's Sales and Number of Consumers  ....             ...........  44
Annex 3.2        JIRAMA's Demand Projections  ......             .................  46
Annex 3.3        Electricity Tariffs and Long Run Marginal cost ....       ..........  48
Annex 3.4        JIRAMA's installed generating capacity  .....         .............  49
Annex 3.5        JIRAMA's investment program (1995-2000)  ....            ...........  51
ANNEX IV
Annex 4.1        Project Description  ...........         ....................  52
Annex 4.2        Project Cost Tables .     ...............................  57
Annex 4.3        Project Implementation Schedule ......          .................  65
Annex 4.4        Disbursement Profile Comparison ......           ................  71
Annex 4.5        Environmental Analysis of Transmission Components ....         ......  72
Annex 4.6       Indicators of Achievement of Project Objectives  ....       .........  74
ANNEX V
Annex 5.1       JIRAMA: Financial Statements  ......             .................  78
Annex 5.2        Assumptions for Projections of Financial Statements ....      .......  81
Annex 5.3       JIRAMA: Financial Indicators .......            .................  84
ANNEX VI
Annex 6.1        Economic Analysis of Electricity Components  ....         ..........  85
Annex 6.2        Economic Analysis of Woodfuels programs   ...............  96






REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Madagascar
Implementing      The state-owned utility, Jyro sy Rano Malagasy (JIRAMA) or Electricity and Water
Agencies:         of Madagascar and Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM).
Amount:           SDR 31.8 million (US$46 million equivalent).
Terms:            Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity including 10 of grace.
On-lendi rn  Terns: The Government of Madagascar will on-lend a maximum of SDR 22 million (US$31.8
million equivalent) from the proceeds of the Credit to JIRAMA at an adjustable interest rate equal to the
London Interbank Rate (LIBOR) plus 0.9 percentage point per annum for a period of 25 years (including a
5 year grace period). JIRAMA will bear the foreign exchange risk on these funds.
Project Objectives: The project aims at: (a) improving Madagascar's prospects for sustainable growth by
ensuring an adequate supply of electricity both for businesses and households, including increased access to
the service of peri-urban and rural populations; (b) creating the institutional foundation in the power sub-
sector to increase economic and management efficiency and attract private investment; and (c) promoting
greater efficiency in the overall production and consumption of energy, thereby helping to mitigate the
adverse environmental impact of woodfuel use.
Project Description: The project consists of four major components. The first comprises most of
JIRAMA's investment program, including: infrastructure (rehabilitation and extension of generation
transmission and distribution facilities); tools and equipment for maintenance; a loss reduction program;
improvements in management systems and personnel training; and feasibility studies for two small hydro
projects. The second is an electrification program to increase selectively access to electricity, by applying
low-cost design standards, with emphasis on increased use of existing infrastructure and the extension of
networks with surplus generating capacity. The third consists of studies and capacity building to support a
program of reforms in the power subsector, including the establishment of a new legal and regulatory
framework that will allow private sector participation, as well as the restructuring of JIRAMA according to
principles of commercial operations. The fourth is a country-wide program to promote energy efficiency,
with emphasis on woodfuels, including an integrated pilot program to ensure a sustainable supply of
woodfuels for the Mahajanga region, while improving the management of natural forest resources.
Project Benefits:   Support of JIRAMA's investment program would help ensure a reliable
electricity service, and avoid or reduce outage costs, fuel costs and energy losses. Without the
project, outage costs would increase as a result of shortfalls in generating capacity, as well as the
increased incidence of faults in the existing systems. The project would lower fuel costs by: (a)
rehabilitating hydro plants, thus reducing the need for thermal power; and (b) expanding the
transmission system to substitute power from hydro plants for diesel generation. System losses will
also be reduced, thereby achieving savings in both capacity investment and energy generated. The
electrification program for peri-urban and dynamic rural areas will result in savings from the



- ii -
substitution of electric power in end-uses which currently depend on kerosene, candles and batteries,
and will make possible increased economic activity. Benefits from policy reforms to eliminate the
state monopoly include: efficiency gains that will be shared with consumers through adequate tariff
regulation, and will generate savings in public resources; and greater sustainability of electricity
supply through mobilization of private capital for investment in the sector. The woodfuels component
will: reduce the adverse impact of wasteful woodfuels production and consumption practices; and
sustain the supply of woodfuels and, in areas with severe wood deficits, avoid increases in the use of
kerosene, which is a more costly fuel.
Risks:                  Because the infrastructure components consist mainly of rehabilitation, and of
straightforward distribution works, they do not involve any unusual risks. The principal risks in
implementing reforms in the power sub-sector are the possibility that the new Electricity law will be
modified by the National Assembly during the debates preceding approval, and the possibility that the
Government might be later reluctant to relinquish its domination of the subsector or be tempted to
backtrack on pricing policy. These risks are counterbalanced, however, by the awareness that in the
future the availability of financing for public investments in power will be sharply reduced, and the
consequent need to establish the credibility of the new legal and regulatory environment in order to
attract private capital to the subsector. Another risk is delay in implementing the investment program
and in mobilizing the corresponding local financing requirements. The agreement on annual reviews
of the investment program and the related financing plans, is designed to minimize this risk. The
economic rates of return on the investment program as a whole and on components thereof are
relatively high due to the rehabilitative nature of the work to be undertaken. However, rates of return
on thermal plants and the distribution components show sensitivity to even moderate decreases in the
expected demand for electricity. The risk associated with this has been minimized by estimating the
demand conservatively. The technical complexity of the project poses no significant problem, since
the implementing agencies, JIRAMA and MEM, have acquired considerable experience through the
implementation of the Energy I Project (Cr. 1787-MAG).
Estimated Costs:
(FMG billion)             (USS  milLion)
Local   Foreign Total   Local   Foreign Total
A.  JIRAMA's Investment Program
1. Generation                                   33.2   106.8   140.0       9.5    30.5    40.0
2. Transmission                                  5.3     12.5    17.9      1.5      3.6     5.1
3. Distribution                                 39.9    118.5   158.3     11.4    33.8    45.2
4. Tools and Equipment for Maintenance           2.5      8.9    11.3      0.7      2.5     3.2
5. Other Programs
a.   Loss Reduction Program                  0.5      1.3     1.9      0.2      0.4     0.5
b.   H. R. Management and Training           0.4      9.8    10.2      0.1      2.8     2.9
c.   Information Technology Program          2.1      7.1     9.2      0.6      2.0     2.6
d.   Feasibility Studies for Hydro           0.5      3.5     4.0      0.2      1.0      1.2
Subtotal Other Programs                          3.6    21.7    25.3       1.0      6.2     7.2
Su*btotat JIRAMA's Investment Program           84.4   268.4  352.8    24.1        76.7   100.8
B. Electrification Progra                            3.8    19.9    23.7       1.1      5.7     6.8
C.  Institutional Reform of the Power Subsector
1. Regulatory Framework                          0.0      5.4     5.4      0.0      1.5     1.5
2. Corporatization of JIRAMA                     0.2      4.3     4.5      0.1      1.2     1.3
SubtotaL Inst. Reform of the Power Subsector   0.2        9.7     9.9      0.1      2.8     2.8
D.  Energy Efficiency Program
1. Energy Conservation Program                   2.6      2.8     5.4      0.7      0.8     1.5
2. Mahajanga Woodfuels Program                   2.2      3.8     6.0      0.6      1.1     1.7
Subtotal Program of Activities by the MEM        4.8      6.6    11.4      1.4      1.9     3.2
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                93.2   304.6   397.8    26.6    87.0   113.7
Physical Contingencies                      10.0    31.8    41.8       2.9      9.1    11.9
Price Contingencies                         54.1   225.1   279.2      -0.7      7.6     6.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                157.3   561.5   718.8    28.8   103.7  132.5



- iii -
Finwcirm Plan:
USS miLLion                   X of Total
IDA                                       46.0                          34.7
EIB                                       24.7                           18.7
CFD                                       28.3                           21.3
ABEDA                                     6.6                            5.0
JIRAMA                                    26.7                          20.1
GOVERNMENT                                 0.2                           0.2
TOTAL                               132.5                         100.0
Estimated IDA disbursements (US$ million):
IDA FY           FY97        FY96         FY99         FY00         FY01         FY02
Annuat           1.7          8.5         16.7         12.7          4.4          2.0
CumuLative       1.7         10.2         26.9         39.6         44.0         46.0
Economic Rate of Return:   22 percent on JIRAMA's investment program as a whole; 57 percent
on the rehabilitation of hydropower stations; 28.7 percent on the interconnection Namorona-
Manakara-Mananjary; 23 percent on the rehabilitation and extension of thermal power plants; and 12
percent on the rehabilitation and extension of the distribution networks. These rates of return were
calculated using existing tariffs as a proxy for benefits. The economic benefits are much higher when
calculated using the willingness of consumers to pay for electricity. For the improved stove program
and the Mahajanga pilot woodfuel program, the economic rates of return are 22 and 42 percent
respectively.
Environmental Categorv:    The project is rated 'B'. New transmission corridors and sub-station
sites do not traverse any environmentally-sensitive areas but do cross inhabited and agricultural areas.
To mitigate any potential impact, the project will adopt good route planning and construction
practices. Several of the project components will help enhance the quality of the environment. The
rehabilitation of hydro plants, and the incorporation of several centers now served from diesel plants
to systems with surplus hydro capacity will reduce CO2 emissions and environmental pollution.
Improving energy efficiency will also lessen pollution. The woodfuels components will reduce
deforestation.
Povertv Categorv:             Not applicable.
Map:                          IBRD  No. 25661.
MIS Task Code:                1533.






REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. PROJECT SETTING AND RATIONALE
The Project's Contribution to Poverty Reduction and Economic Growth
1.1      The proposed energy sector development project will contribute to implementing
Madagascar's strategy for poverty reduction through provision of electricity infrastructure to support
rapid economic growth; opening the power sub-sector to private investment, with the Government
adopting a regulatory role; improvements in energy efficiency; and preservation of the environment
through better natural resource management. The project -- which concerns mainly the power and
woodfuels sub-sectors -- builds upon the recently completed Energy I Project (Cr. 1787 MAG) and
complements the ongoing Petroleum Sector Reform Project (Cr. 2538 MAG).
1.2       As a result of an unsuccessful economic strategy that reserved the leading role for the State,
Madagascar's per capita income plummeted by 45 percent between 1971 and 1994, and three quarters
of the population now live below the poverty line. After a period of political turmoil and transition to
democracy in 1991-1993, the central objective of the Government's economic strategy is to achieve a
reduction in poverty levels. Poverty has become a problem of such magnitude, that only accelerated
economic growth can begin to provide a permanent solution. The Government's goal, developed in
dialogue with IDA, is to attain growth of six percent per annum by the end of the decade. The sectoral
composition of growth underlying this projected economic growth rate indicates growth of 4 percent in
agriculture, 10 percent in the industrial sector, and 6 percent in services, including tourism. The lack
of adequate infrastructure, including electricity, transport and telecommunications, is a major constraint
to achieving these goals. Without an adequate electricity supply, the expected development of labor-
intensive industry and services, in particular, would be impossible.
1.3      Another important aspect of the Government's strategy is the refocussing of public
expenditures, aiming to improve resource allocation to priority sectors. In the energy sector, the
Government has begun implementing a strategy to move away from the present sector structure,
dependent on public investment and entirely dominated by state-owned enterprises (SOLIMA for
petroleum and JIRAMA for electricity), to a new sectoral environment designed to stimulate private
sector investment, with the Government adopting the role of regulator and arbiter. This strategy also
includes moving from a past situation of price distortions to one featuring efficient pricing policies, and
promoting efficiency in energy production and use. These changes, which require technically complex
reforms and the building up of regulatory capacity, are supported by the ongoing Petroleum Sector
Reform Project for the petroleum sub-sector and will be supported by the proposed project for the
electricity sub-sector.
1.4      The initial emphasis of power sub-sector reform will be on creating a transparent legal and
regulatory framework, conducive to greater efficiency and capable of attracting private investment, and
on preparing JIRAMA for operation in the new environment through corporatization and
commercialization, rather than on outright privatization of the utility. Before substantial private
investment can realistically be expected, a transition period of three to five years is needed to establish
the credibility of the new legal and regulatory environment. For that reason, the proposed project will
support public investment in power infrastructure up to the year 2001 to ensure that there are no
bottlenecks that could constrain economic growth.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                          2
1.5       Improving the efficiency of all energy processes has been a longstanding concern of the
Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM). Under the Energy I project MEM carried out a successful
program for increasing the efficiency of charcoal production, and for disseminating improved charcoal
stoves. The MEM, with support from consultants, also carried out a series of energy audits in
industry. These initiatives will be continued and extended nationwide under the proposed project, with
a main emphasis on woodfuels processes, particularly the production and use of charcoal, which
currently involve high energy losses.
1.6       Preservation of Madagascar's fragile and precious natural environment is crucial to
sustainable growth and to fighting poverty. One of the contributing factors to the destruction of the
country's rich, biodiverse environment has been the large scale consumption of woodfuels. In some
regions, the main cause of current forest degradation is the production and consumption of firewood
and charcoal. The decline in forest cover is serious not just because it threatens the availability of
woodfuels to meet cooking needs, but also because it jeopardizes the existence of a unique natural
heritage and hinders the country's potential for ecotourism, which could provide foreign exchange for
development. The proposed project will support a pilot program to ensure a sustainable supply of
woodfuels to the Mahajanga region, including better management of natural forests which are being
exploited for fuel and are being seriously degraded by this activity. Under the project, approximately
30 villages will begin managing their forest resources and reaping a financial benefit from their
sustainable exploitation.
1.7       The Government and IDA agreed that the proposed project meets the priority needs of the
energy sector in support of the country's overall program of economic growth and poverty reduction.
It is very much in line with the priorities of IDA's country assistance strategy which focuses on
upgrading of infrastructure emphasizing rehabilitation over new investment; elimination of de jure
monopolies and promotion of private sector participation; and improving natural resource management.
The project also meets the general criteria for IDA lending in the power sector, and incorporates
Government as well as Bank Group concerns for energy efficiency.
The Energy Balance
1.8       Madagascar's energy balance (Annex 1.1) reflects the country's early stage of economic
development. The economy's modern sector uses only a small portion of total net energy supply, while
households consume 73 percent, mostly in the form of woodfuels for cooking. Total consumption is
about 2.6 million tons of oil equivalent (toe) 1/. Firewood accounts for 74 percent of the total and
charcoal for 9 percent. The consumption of energy other than woodfuels consists mostly of petroleum
products (imported petroleum supplies 12 percent of net supply), and amounts to only about 30
kilograms of oil equivalent (kgoe) per capita, much lower than the 100 kgoe average for sub-Saharan
Africa. The energy balance also reveals very large conversion losses in the production of charcoal,
which amount to about 1.2 million toe annually.
1.9       The transport sector is the largest consumer of petroleum products (71 percent). Industry,
commerce and agriculture account for 17 percent of petroleum product consumption, comprising mostlv
fuel oil and diesel. Households consume the remaining 12 percent, mostly kerosene, with a very small
amount of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). Despite the low profile of petroleum products in the overall
energy balance, they absorb a considerable amount of Madagascar's export earnings, about 26 percent
in 1993. Electricity's share of net energy supply is only two percent of the total, but this source of
1/    These figures reflect 1993 data, which are the latest available.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                          3
energy is crucial to running a modern productive sector. Industry, commerce and other services are
the largest consumers of electricity, accounting for 76 percent of the total. Households consume the
remaining 24 percent.
1.10      Vigorous economic growth will bring about not only an increase in overall energy demand,
but also major changes in energy supply and consumption patterns. The evolution will be towards
greater consumption of modern fuels and, at least initially, higher consumption of charcoal, wliich
serves as a transition fuel between traditional and modem fuel use by households. The Government
wants this transition to be accompanied by an increase in efficiency, through institutional reform and
adequate energy pricing, and also that it be accomplished with due consideration for environmental
protection.
Lessons and Principles incorporated in Project Design
1.11      Longstanding Energy Sector Dialogue. The proposed project is an important next step in
the dialogue between the Government and IDA on energy. It draws on the experience gained and the
lessons learned in this process. IDA has been supporting the development of the energy sector in
Madagascar since 1978, with one hydroelectric project (1978); three petroleum projects (1980, 1982
and 1993); an ESMAP energy assessment (1984); and the Energy I project (1987), which closed in
December 1994. Annex 1.2 provides a brief description of these projects and a summary of the
relevant lessons learned. The proposed project also takes account of lessons learned from other energy
projects in the Africa region and elsewhere. The most important lessons that have been incorporated in
the design of this project are: (a) that greater efficiency and financial viability of power subsector
operations requires structural reform: opening the subsector to private participation, maintaining
economically efficient pricing, and commercializing state-owned utilities; and (b) that electrification of
new areas has to be done selectively, focusing on areas that can make productive use of electricity,
trying to make more intensive use of existing infrastructure, and applying low-cost design standards.
Also, on a more specific level, and based on the experience of the Energy I project, JIRAMA has
sought to structure procurement packages to minimize the burden of supervision and coordination.
1.12      Bank Group Principles for Power Sector Restructuring. The proposed project satisfies the
guiding principles for Bank Group support of power-sector restructuring programs. The Government is
commnitted to reforming the legal and regulatory framework of the power sector. The new framework
will include: a clear articulation of tariff policies; the establishment of an independent regulatory
agency; and clear rules for entry and exit of private producers and distributors of electricity. The
design of tariff regulation will seek to stimulate efficiency. A restructuring study for JIRAMA will
explore the options for splitting certain support activities, such as information technology, construction,
and engineering design, into wholly-owned subsidiaries which the Government could later privatize.
Finally, JIRAMA will become a joint-stock company to allow potential private partners access to its
capital.
1.13      Bank Group Policy for Energy Efficiency and Conservation. The proposed project has
incorporated IDA's current policies for efficiency and energy conservation in developing countries
through: its components for loss reduction in the power systems; improvements in the efficiency of
charcoal production and use; studies on the potential for broad-scope energy efficiency programs; and
agreements on energy pricing.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                               4
II. INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
Overview
2.1        The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) has five separate directorates corresponding to
energy, mines, water, geology, and project coordination. MEM also has supervisory authority over the
state electricity and water company, JIRAMA, and the state petroleum company, SOLIMA. Within
MEM, the Directorate of Energy (DE) has direct responsibility for overall energy policy, planning, and
oversight of agencies in the energy sector. For the woodfuels subsector, institutional responsibility is
spread across the MEM, the Ministry of Agriculture, the National Office of the Environment, as well
as regional and local authorities. The following sections describe the institutional aspects of the
electricity and woodfuels subsectors, highlighting the key issues that relate to the design of the project.
2.2        Madagascar has embarked on a program of restructuring the energy sector, opening up for
private sector participation activities that in the past have been the exclusive domain of the state. This
restructuring has begun with the petroleum subsector, where the Government already has taken steps
towards: abolishing the state monopoly on the import, refining, storage, and distribution of petroleum
products; establishing rules for open access to common storage facilities; liberalizing the system of
petroleum pricing; and designing a rational tax system. The Petroleum Sector Reform Project is
covering this restructuring.
2.3        The proposed project will deal with institutional issues in the electric power subsector and
the woodfuels subsector, and will also explore options for an institutional framework to promote energy
efficiency nationwide. In the electric power subsector, the project will support restructuring, in line
with Madagascar's policy of economic liberalization. For the woodfuels subsector, the project will
test, on a pilot basis, arrangements giving more responsibility to local governments and promoting
community ownership of selected forested areas to encourage exploitation of wood resources using
techniques that will sustain the resource base.
The Electric Power Subsector
2.4        The proposed project will support the Government's actions to change the power
subsector's legal framework to allow private sector participation; to further efficient electricity pricing
by establishing clear and independent pricing regulation; and to create an arms-length relationship
between the Government and the utility. The project will also finance JIRAMA's financial
restructuring and reorganization, and the utility's incorporation as a joint-stock company, subject to
company law. Under the new legal environment the utility will be managed on a commercial basis.
Indeed, after having achieved progress within the framework of Energy I in the fields of least-cost
expansion planning and tariff policy, the Government is now ready to proceed with deeper reforms, in
line with the change in the direction of economic policy. It has established in a letter of sector policy
(Annex 2.1), the following objectives for the energy sector: (a) opening of the sector to private capital,
and adoption of a normative and arbitration role by the state; (b) an efficient and adequate pricing
policy; and (c) efficiency in energy production and use.
2.5        Presently, Madagascar's power subsector is characterized, at the institutional level, by state
domination. The 1974 decree defining the subsector's current legal framework declares electric power
to be an economic activity reserved for the state and spells out Government policies for the subsector.
JIRAMA was created to implement those policies. During JIRAMA's early years, the Government
pursued a strategy focussed on the creation of a power-supply base for industrialization, the promotion
of rural electrification, and the maintenance of low electricity prices. This led to overinvestment, the



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                             5
creation of many small isolated systems which are making financial losses, and to a weak financial
position for the utility.
2.6       The Current Legal Framnework. A 1974 Governmental ordinance (Ordonnance 74-002)
establishes Madagascar's current legal framework for the power subsector. It declares both the water
and electricity subsectors to be part of the domain of economic activities reserved for the state. The
state has the exclusive right to carry out all operations for generation, transmission and distribution of
electrical energy in the country, and all installations necessary for these operations are part of the
public domain of the state. The law allows electricity operations for private use only on an exceptional
basis. To facilitate policy implementation in the water and electricity subsectors, the law allows the
state to vest part of its exclusive rights in a company which operates in the national interest.
2.7       The National Objectives for the Subsector. The above Ordinance also defines the elements
of a national strategy for water and electricity: (a) the gradual extension to all of the territory of power
and water infrastructure, in accordance with national policies for economic and social development; (b)
exploration of all means to make water and electricity available to the national community as efficiently
as possible; and (c) the progressive uniformity of operating conditions, particularly concerning tariffs.
The ordinance also stipulates that water and electricity tariffs must cover all expenses, including
depreciation and financial charges, and generate a reasonable surplus as a contribution to investment. It
establishes the municipalities' authority to impose specific taxes destined to the payment of public
consumption of water and electricity.
2.8       JIRAMA. The Government created JIRAMA in 1975, through Ordinance No. 75-024 to
implement the national objectives for the water and electricity subsectors, as defined in Ordinance 74-
002. JIRAMA, according to Ordinance No. 75-024, is "a state enterprise governed by Company Law,
except as limited by the particular provisions of the present statutes." JIRAMA did not become
operational until 1977, upon dissolution of the following state-controlled entities that were responsible
for electricity and water supply: Societ6 Malgache de l'Eau et de l'Electricite (SEE), Societe d'Energie
de Madagascar (SEM), and Gerance Nationale de l'Eau (GNE). The Government transferred the assets
and liabilities of these entities to JIRAMA.
2.9       After JIRAMA's creation, the Government began using the new company to pursue its
socioeconomic objectives. For exanple, it directed the utility to create the power supply infrastructure
that would support an industrialization program based on large state-owned industries. This program
failed, leaving JIRAMA with excess generating capacity and a substantial amount of debt. Also, the
Goverrnent ordered JIRAMA to electrify many remote centers, with low levels of economic activity
on the assumption that electrification would induce regional development. Actually, in many of these
centers, demand has barely increased from its initial level and high fuel costs create financial losses for
JIRAMA. Also, the Government allowed tariffs to fall below costs. Furthermore, the Government
caused the utility to invest in subsidiaries for manufacturing lightbulbs and home appliances for sale at
Government-controlled prices, below cost. All of this shows that the social objectives ranked higher
than the commercial performance requirements which Ordinance 74-002 had established. This fact,
plus the Government's failure to demand of, and allow, management to run the utility on a commercial
basis has led to a weak financial position, as described in chapter V.
2.10      In 1991, within the framework of the Energy I project, JIRAMA and the Government
entered into an agreement formalized in a contract-plan defining their respective obligations. This plan
has resulted in some important achievements, especially in tariff policy. It established the principles of
least-cost expansion planning, marginal cost pricing, and indexation of electricity tariffs to the exchange
rate, fuel prices, and the consumer price index (paras. 3.6 and 3.7). Energy I financed JIRAMA's
acquisition of an expansion-planning model, training in its use, and the execution of an initial planning



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                          6
exercise. It also financed a tariff study based on Long Run Marginal Cost (LRMC). However, the
contract-plan failed to clearly establish the principle that JIRAMA should operate on a commercial
basis, honoring its financial obligations, and making a profit for its shareholder. It also failed to solve
the problem of public sector arrears.
2.11      In the water subsector, a recently-completed Sectoral Strategy and Action Plan study
recomnmends that the Government move towards separating JIRAMA's electricity and water sections,
and privatizing water operations. A water project, which IDA will finance, current!y is under
preparation and will take these recommendations into account. The energy and infrastructure project
teams within the Bank are coordinating and will jointly monitor JIRAMA's restructuring. Concerning
separation of water and electricity, one issue in particular that deserves attention is the fact that, in the
small centers, JIRAMA's staff handle both water and electricity operations. Thus, any restructuring of
the utility which separates the electricity and water operations should address the potential impact on
staffing requirements and costs.
2.12      CFD and EIB, have also been involved in the discussions concerning the reform program
for the power subsector. The Government, JIRAMA, and the Bank's project teams for the energy and
the water projects are maintaining a continuous coordination with them for actions in this field.
JIRAMA's Present Structure and ODerations
2.13      Organization and Management. An eight-member Board of Directors governs JIRAMA.
Four members represent the Government, two are elected representatives of the staff, and two are
chosen for their competence in specific areas. The Government must appoint all members formally.
The Board is supposed to meet at least twice a year. This has not always been the case and, in
practice, the Board has not played an active role in the management of the company. The Government
nominates a Director General, the chief executive officer, who is responsible to the Board of Directors.
The Director General has broad authority in the conduct of the company's daily management activities.
2.14      Personnel. Human Resources Management. and Training. As of mid-1993, JIRAMA had
6,140 employees. 5,050 were permanent staff and 1,090 had temporary status. Of these employees,
1,290 worked in the water subsector; 3,580 in the electricity sector; and 1,270 in ancillary services
2/. The productivity ratios, relating the number of customers and the electricity and water supplied
to them to the number of employees in operations (production, transmission, distribution, and
commercial functions), are: 47.7 customers per employee and 110 MWh sold per employee for
electricity operations; and 58.9 customers per employee and 41 cubic meters sold per employee for
water operations. The productivity ratios for electricity are about average for African utilities with a
comparable number of clients and volume of energy sales, but low by international standards 3/.
2.15      JIRAMA's engineering staff is of high quality and the company has proven its technical
capacity for design and construction of power facilities. The fact that very old installations are still
functioning, despite budgetary and foreign exchange constraints to preventive maintenance, is a good
2/     This allocation is based on actual figures by activity, provided by JIRAMA, plus an estimated
allocation of those employees who did not appear in the categorization by activity.
3/     For comparison, in 1988, the average figures for Latin American countries were 114
customers per employee and 558 MWh per employee.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                         7
indication that JIRAMA's technicians are highly skilled. However, a major staffing problem is the
regional imbalance of qualified personnel, with a high concentration in Antananarivo, due to the lack of
sufficient incentives for relocation to the outer regions. The proposed project will upgrade the systems
for human resource management, including a revision of the salary grid and the rules for promotion.
The revision will improve compensation and benefits for perso.nel in remote areas, and thus help to
attract and retain qualified personnel in these areas.
2.16      Personnel Training. JIRAMA has a large training center in Antananarivo which currently
is under-utilized. The proposed project includes a systematic diagnosis of the need for training
programs with an operational orientation to support ongoing efforts in the different centers to improve
organization and methods for operation and maintenance.
2.17      Information Technology. JIRAMA is in the process of setting up a company-wide
information system, integrating accounting, stock management, financial management, commercial
operations, personnel management, and technical applications. The project follows a master plan which
the utility developed in 1990, with the assistance of consultants financed by CFD. IDA and CFD also
financed some data processing equipment under the Energy I project to implement the first phase of the
plan, designed to test the system on a pilot basis. The proposed project will include the financing
needed to complete the program.
2.18      Billing and Collection. Meter reading and billing of customers takes place once a month in
all of JIRAMA's centers. Collection delays for private clients are within the 60 days established in the
Contract-Plan, but public sector customers have in the past tended to accumulate large arrears (see
para. 5.10). The utility is in the process of decentralizing its billing and collection procedures and
there is an ongoing pilot decentralization exercise in the largest demand center outside of Antananarivo,
the northwestern port of Mahajanga. The new system will introduce local processing of meter readings
and billing, but the regional offices will continue to send all funds collected to Antananarivo.
2.19      Accounting and Auditing. JIRAMA's accounting practices follow African and Malagasy
regulations (Plan Comptable Africain et Malgache) which francophone countries across Africa use.
The utility has adequate software for accounting and finance, which a consultant helped install in 1982.
The system integrates general and analytical accounting, as well as budget control, and is able to
exchange information with the systems handling payroll, commercial operations, and stock
management. However, the system needs updating to take account of recent changes in JIRAMA's
operating environment: internal reorganization, reform of the payroll process, and the increasing
importance of project management operations.
2.20      The local auditor that audits JIRAMA's financial statements regularly issues unqualified
opinions on them, but has made certain observations about the accounts, particularly the need to
complete the set-up of a system for the management of fixed assets, and the lack of a clear legal basis
for JIRAMA's operation of power facilities that belong to the state. Indeed, the concessions under
which JIRAMA's predecessors operated expired a long time ago. The proposed project's component
for financial restructuring and institutional reform will address these issues.
The Woodfuels Subsector
2.21      Under Energy I, the DE created a Domestic Energy Unit to implement the woodfuels
component. This unit now has become part of DE's permanent structure, and will continue to be
involved in woodfuels activities included in the proposed project. The woodfuels study (para. 3.22)
makes three basic recommendations concerning woodfuels subsector actions: (a) implementing activities
on a regional basis; (b) testing activities on a pilot scale before extending their scope throughout the



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                        8
country; and (c) involving the local population in woodfuels activities, giving responsibility to local
authorities without central Government intervention. The proposed project's component for a pilot
management plan in the Mahajanga region incorporates these guidelines. The pilot plan also will help
establish a closer coordination at the local level with Forestry officials and community authorities.
Enerur Efficiency
2.22      The MEM has long shown interest in promoting energy efficiency. The Energy I project
financed a series of activities in this field. Now the MEM would like to study the feasibility of
creating an institution dedicated to promoting energy efficiency through dissemination of information,
demonstration projects, development of standards, promotion of private energy services companies, and
intermediation to obtain financing. The proposed project will finance activities in this field, including
an evaluation of whether or not the creation of such an institution makes sense for Madagascar.
III. DEMAND AND SUPPLY. PRICING. AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Overview
3.1       This chapter outlines the salient characteristics of the electric power and woodfuels
subsectors 4/, and the status of efforts to improve energy efficiency across subsectors, since these are
the focus of the proposed project. The chapter highlights the present needs, and the actions required to
satisfy them.
3.2       The electric power subsector needs financing to rehabilitate and expand the existing supply
system, as well as to facilitate the access of new areas and population groups to the service. In the
woodfuels subsector, improvements are necessary in the production and use of woodfuels and the
management of forest resources, in order to ensure the sustainability of woodfuels supply and preserve
Madagascar's natural environment. Concerning energy efficiency, the Government seeks improvements
in end-use sectors other than household use of woodfuels. One major element in this effort has been a
move toward the economic pricing of energy. The Government also wants to explore options to
promote energy efficiency in industry and transport.
The Electripct Subsector
3.3       Fragmented Structure of the Supply System. The marking feature of Madagascar's
electricity supply system is its great fragmentation. Because of the low levels of demand, and the vast
distances separating load centers, local power networks still represent the least-cost solution for supply
in the majority of cases. As a result, the supply system consists of 63 separate public networks plus a
number of private, independent systems. Total installed generation capacity is about 250 MW, of
which an estimated 34 MW belongs to autoproducers. 105 of JIRAMA's 216 MW of installed capacity
are in hydro plants. Annual energy production from all sources was around 610 GWh in 1994, with an
estimated 64 GWh generated by autoproducers. There are considerable differences between JIRAMA's
41    The petroleum subsector is the subject of a separate project, the Petroleum Sector Reform
Project (Cr. 2538-MAG), declared effective on September 20, 1994.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                           9
networks. Just seven of them account for 94 percent of JIRAMA's generation. The largest of these
seven, the interconnected system serving the Antananarivo region, accounts for 64 percent of total sales
and generation by the utility. Additionally, there are 56 small, isolated networks, nearly half of which
provide only part-time service, which varies from four to nineteen hours per day.
3.4       Evolution of Demand. JIRAMA's electricity sales were 437 GWh in 1994, supplied from a
gross generation of 546 GWh of which 71 percent came from hydro plants. Demand growth has been
uneven along time, reflecting the vicissitudes of GDP growth. Demand grew at an average annual rate
of 4.8 percent between 1986 and 1990, decreased 2 percent in 1991, the year when civil disorders
swept the country, grew again at 5.6 percent from 1991 to 1993, and stagnated in 1994. The number
of consumers increased from about 140,000 in 1986 to about 190,000 in 1994, at an average annual
growth rate of 3.7 percent. Only about eight percent of the country's population has access to
electricity 5/. Annex 3.1 provides further details on sales and number of cunsumers.
3.5       Future Demand Growth and System Expansion. Annex 3.2 details JIRAMA's demand
projections for each of the larger systems and for the aggregate of the smaller systems up to the year
2000. These projections are an update of load forecasts done in 1989 by consultants (Hydro
Quebec/Monenco) which IDA financed within the context of the Energy I project to define a least cost
expansion plan. They are built up from projections by center and by consumer category. The
projected overall growth rate of sales for the period 95-2000 is 4.8 percent. Because of the expected
effect of the loss-reduction program included in the proposed project (para. 3.17), the corresponding
projected growth rate of gross generation is only 4.1 percent. JIRAMA has also updated the least-cost
expansion plan, which is the basis for its investment program (para. 3.18).
3.6       Electricity Pricing. Following the determination of the least-cost expansion plan for the
electric power system, JIRAMA and its consultants designed in 1990 a new tariff system based on the
long-run marginal cost of supply (LRMC). To reflect differences in costs (particularly fuel costs), and
in factors such as load density and load factor 6/ which determine revenue per dollar invested,
JIRAMA has classified its networks in three "tariff zones", with prices being lowest for zone I and
highest for zone 3. Zone I comprises three of the larger systems, where generation comes mainly
from hydropower. Zone 2, including Mahajanga and Toliary, corresponds to larger thermal systems
that use mainly heavy fuel oil. Zone 3 covers the rest of the systems, which generate power from
plants using diesel. For high and medium-voltage consumers, rates are differentiated by time of day
(peak, day, and night).
3.7       At the time of the tariff study, the overall tariff level was too low, and JIRAMA had 438
different tariff categories, which the company had inherited from the multiple entities previously
responsible for electricity supply. JIRAMA adopted the structure defined by the tariff study and set a
target level which the company was to reach through successive adjustments to ensure financial
5/     This rate is based on: the number of domestic consumers in 1994, which was 188,000; an
estimated population of 13.5 million; and an average of 5.9 persons per household (a UNDP
figure).
6/     Load density is given by the product of the number of consumers connected per km of line and
the average consumption per consumer. The load factor is the ratio between average power
demand and peak power demand. Peak power demand determines required capacity
investments while average demand determines revenue.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                           10
equilibrium. To make the transition possible, the Government authorized significant tariff increases.
During 1989-92, it raised tariffs by up to 30 percent annually, for a cumulated increase of 100 percent.
By Ju.y 1993, tariff categories had declined to the current 30 and by July 1994, the average tariff had
reached the target level (equivalent to US$0. 10/kWh). Annex 3.3 provides the details of the current
tariff system. At the end of 1992, the Government issued an important decree (No. 7800-92) which
introduced the principle of automatic adjustments, based on an indexation of tariffs to the exchange
rate, the price of oil, and the local consumer price index. These actions, and similar measures taken
by the Government conceming water tariffs, will ensure JIRAMA's financial equilibrium beginning in
1995.
3.8       The above tariff policy will remain in effect until the institutional reform of the power
subsector takes place and the regulatory agency becomes operational. The LRMC will continue to be
the basis of the tariff structure, and the level will be subject to automatic adjustments based on
indexation formulas. But the new system for price regulation will add an efficiency incentive. Each
tariff adjustment will reflect the changes of the economic indices but will be for less than the full
amount, to encourage the utilities to make efficiency improvements in order to maintain profitability.
In setting the initial tariff level, the regulatoiy authority will take into account the need to ensure a
reasonable level of profitability for JIRAMA, considering its present situation and capabilities.
JIRAMA's financial viability will improve in the short term as a result of measures that the
Government has agreed to take (see para. 5. 11). Additionally, a restructuring of the utility, included in
the project, will further strengthen the company's financial position (see para. 5.12).
JIRAMA's Power Facilities: Present Situation and Needs
3.9       Generation capacity. JIRAMA's total installed capacity is 216 MW, of which hydro plants
account for 105 MW. Annex 3.4 provides the details. By comparison, current aggregate peak demand
is about 110 MW. Although the installed-capacity figure suggests excess capacity, most of
Madagascar's power facilities are very old. As a consequence, a large number of the existing thermal
units has to be retired before year 2000 (para. 3.10), while most of the hydro units need urgent
rehabilitation to extend their lives. For example, four of the seven hydro power stations with installed
capacities greater than I MW are more than 60 years old and one of the remaining three is 39 years
old. These plants need rehabilitation. The most important rehabilitation works are in the
Antananarivo system and concern the power stations of Antelomita I and 11 (4.1 MW each), Mandraka
(24 MW), and Manandona (1.6 MW). Consultants prepared a detailed identification of needs and
preliminary engineering for hydro rehabilitation under the Energy I project. These works are part of
the system's least cost expansion plan.
3.10      A survey of thermal plants which JIRAMA and Hydro Quebec-MONENCO completed in
1990 indicated that of the 182 units existing at that time, 44 units, with an installed capacity of 11.5
MW, should be retired immediately, and 90 others with an installed capacity of 17.9 MW, would reach
the end of their useful lives sometime during the 1990s. JIRAMA, however, still counts many of the
units with no remaining useful life as part of its installed capacity, thus overstating the installed-
capacity figure. The Energy I project financed 32 new diesel generating sets with individual capacities
between 30 and 300 kW, and one larger unit of 1.6 MW, for a total capacity increment of about
6 MW. Additionally, JIRAMA, using its own funds, purchased 38 small units with a total capacity of
2.8 MW, and the Energy I project financed spares and technical assistance to repair 61 other units.
3.11      Despite these improvements, future load growth and the scheduled retirement of older units
require investments in new diesel generating sets and plant rehabilitation. JIRAMA, with the assistance
of consultants financed under the Energy I project, determined the needs on the basis of demand



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                             11
projections, scheduled retirement of units, and the reserve criteria adopted for planning. The works
which the proposed project will finance are part of the least-cost expansion plan, and include
rehabilitation of thermal plants, as well as the purchase of new diesel generating sets to replace retired
sets and to expand generating capacity.
3.12      Transmission. There is little transmission infrastructure in Madagascar. Apart from the
lines in the Antananarivo and Fianarantsoa interconnected systems, the only other transmission line is a
40-kin, 35-kV line connecting the hydro power station of Volobe to the city of Toamasina. With
demand growth, some old medium-voltage lines have become overloaded and have to be rebuilt.
Additionally, JIRAMA has to replace old wood structures in several lines.
3.13      JIRAMA's Directorate of Planning has investigated the feasibility of interconnecting some
of the major power systems in the country, and has found that this is not economically justified at the
present time, given the long distances involved and the low level of the power transfers that would take
place. On a smaller scale, however, some interconnections are viable, and the proposed project will
support their construction. The main one will incorporate the port cities of Manakara and Mananjary
on the east coast into the Fianarantsoa interconnected system, which has surplus hydro generating
capacity. Presently, Manakara and Mananjary get their power from diesel plants. Additionally, three
small thermal systems to the west of Antananarivo will be linked to the capital, through an extension of
medium-voltage lines.
3.14      Distribution Systems. Most of the distribution systems are old, and in some cases operate
close to their capacity limits. JIRAMA has identified a series of needs in its distribution substations,
where equipment that has reached the end of its useful life needs replacement. This equipment consists
mainly of medium-voltage switchgear, protection systems, and control panels. Furthermore, an
increase in transformer capacity is also necessary in some substations where the growing loads are
approaching the level of existing capacity. Concerning the networks, numerous small rehabilitation and
reinforcement operations are necessary to improve quality of service and reduce losses. The lack of
sufficient materials currently is constraining the implementation of these operations. Difficulties in
obtaining foreign exchange also have restricted the availability of materials for service connections and
distribution network extensions, so that the distribution networks do not keep pace with urban growth.
3.15      The distribution network serving Antananarivo uses a medium-voltage level of 5 kV, which
has become inadequate for the size of the city. A master plan for renovating Antananarivo's
distribution network, which consultants prepared with French financing under the Energy I project,
proposes the introduction of a medium-voltage level of 20 kV and a new structure for the medium-
voltage network. Additionally, the same study identified urgent rehabilitation works for the existing
facilities, which JIRAMA executed under Energy I. The proposed project will execute the second
phase of the works, which consists of implementing the master plan.
3.16      Operation and Maintenance. The larger systems operate reasonably well but the smaller
ones lack sufficiently-qualified personnel and work equipment for efficient operation. The project will
finance tools and equipment for maintenance, including specialized trucks for transmission and
distribution work, as well as training for operational personnel.
3.17      Energv Losses. Table 3.1 shows total energy losses, or the difference between net
generation and sales, for the period 1989-94. The data seem to indicate growing commercial losses.
Indeed, total losses have increased faster in recent years than can be explained by the increase of
technical losses caused by demand growth. The proposed project's component for loss reduction will
comprise two parallel sets of actions: one will attack commercial losses and the other will look at ways



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                                                 12
of reducing technical losses. The program will identify the magnitude and location of energy loss in
the systems, so as to concentrate corrective actions in the areas of maximum impact. The
reinforcement of the transmission and distribution systems which the proposed project will execute will
have a major impact on loss reduction, especially in the Antananarivo system.
Table 3.1: Evolution of Energy Losses
1989         1990         1991           1992          1993           1994
Net generation, GUh             429.9        460.1        454.4          488.9         518.1          531.2
Sales, GWh                      377.8        401.0        393.0          410.0         438.2          436.9
Losses, GWh                      52.1         59.1         61.4           78.9          79.9           94.3
Losses, X of net generation      12.1         12.8         13.5           16.1          15.4           17.8
Source:  JIRANA.
lRUtM's Investment Pron
3.18         On the basis of the least cost development plan, JIRAMA has prepared an investment
progran for 1996-2001, which Table 3.2 summarizes. Annex 3.5 describes the investment program
in more detail. JIRAMA updates this program periodically, responding to changes in demand
growth, fuel availability and relative fuel prices. The total investment progrum amounts to UJS$130
million over the period 1996-2001. Its breakdown across various sub-categories is as follows: 49
percent in generation and transmission; 40 percent in distribution; 5 percent in general plant,
including data processing equipment, and 6 percent for institutional strengthening and studies
including improved human resources management, staff training and training materials, and feasibility
studies for two small hydro projects.
Tabte 3.2:  JIRJA 's Investmnt Progr   1996-2001
(USS milLion) 1J
Category                              LocaL      Foreign       TotaL   Percentage
Generation and Transmission           15.92        47.88       63.80            49
Hydropower rehabilitation            7.52       29.34        36.86
Thermal rehab. & Replacement         4.83         8.80       13.63
Transmission Lines                   2.83         4.58        7.41
Substations                            0.74         5.16        5.90
Distribution                          14.94        37.12       52.06            40
General pLant                          1.29         4.75        6.04             5
Institutional strengthening            1.80        6.22         8.02             6
Total                                 33.95        95.97      129.92
Percentage of totaL costs                26           74         100           100
j/   In constant 1993 doLlars.  Including duties and physicaL contingencies.
Source: JIRAMA.
The Need to Extend Electriflcation in the Countrv
3.19         Because of Madagascar's low electrification rate, the Government is keen to promote the
extension of electricity to new areas, and facilitate access of social groups that at present cannot



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                             13
afford service due to their lack of financial resources to cover up-front costs, mainly house-wiring
costs, the connection fee, and the required contribution to the initial investment in cases where
network extensions are required. The objective of expanding electrification is to support economic
diversification and growth as well as improve the quality of life, in an economically rational way.
The Government has learned important lessons from past experience with electrification in
Madagascar. Many of the existing small isolated systems were created in the 1970s and 1980s, when
one of the Government's objectives was to progressively extend electricity infrastructure to cover the
entire country, in an effort to create regionally-balanced economic and social development. But
because the emphasis was on social and political objectives, many of the centers electrified lacked the
volume of economic activity that would have been necessary to make productive use of the electricity.
3.20      The proposed Government program will select areas for electrification based on evidence
that they can use the electricity productively. Given this basic premise, the program will focus on
peri-urban and dynamic rural areas. A pilot electrification project, which JIRAMA built under
Energy 1, is testing design standards, corresponding to the North-American type of distribution
system, which reduce construction costs by about 30 percent. Low-cost construction and credit
mechanisms can make possible more intensive utilization of existing medium-voltage lines. These
lines often traverse villages and other populated areas without making a single connection, because the
investments required using the traditional urban distribution technologies are too high and the
expected number of initial new connections too low. This increased utilization of existing
infrastructure would apply predominantly to systems with surplus hydro generation capacity.
The Woodfuels Subsector
3.21      The Environmental Problem and the Need for Action. Madagascar's forested areas are
dwindling rapidly. In some areas, wood off-take for fuel is the major cause of deforestation and the
firewood and charcoal markets fail to account for the environmental costs of exploiting natural
forests. To protect the environment, the Government will have to encourage improved process
efficiency at all stages of woodfuels production and use, as well as better forest resource management.
Furthermore, if the Government delegates responsibility for managing forestry resources to the local
communities and establishes mechanisms to allow them to share the benefits, it will create an
incentive base for sustainable resource exploitation.
3.22      Magnitude and Impact of Forest Degradation. IDA, with support from the Household
Energy Planning Unit (UPED) within the MEM, has studied the environmental impact of woodfuels
in Madagascar 7/. According to this study, total forest cover declined by 75 percent between 1927
and 1989. Estimates of annual wood offtake for all purposes range widely, from 30.1 million cubic
meters to 55.3 million cubic meters, while annual wood production is 36.9 million cubic meters from
all forests and plantations. The low figure indicates that supply is sustainable on a country-wide
basis. However, the global data masks considerable differences in regional demand/supply balances.
The high estimate indicates a serious problem on a national scale.
3.23      Both the low and high estimates of wood offtake show that forest exploitation for fuel,
and for the destructive "slash and burn" agricultural method known in Madagascar as "tavy", account
for 80 percent of all wood offtake. According to the low estimate, the annual wood offtake for fuel
purposes and tavy are very close, 11.4 million cubic meters and 12.0 million cubic meters
7/     Environmental Impact of Woodfuels in Madaeascar, May 1994.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                           14
respectively. The high estimate shows that tavy uses more than double the amount of wood used for
fuel purposes. These figures are broadly indicative only, because there has been no complete forest
inventory since 1960. In any case, the apparent rapid decline in Madagascar's forest cover is
alarming and deserves priority attention from the Government.
3.24      The above-mentioned study evaluated the environmental problems of seven regions and
found two, Mahajanga and Toliary, where the exploitation of forest resources for fuel was the main
cause of environmental degradation, severely threatening the sustainability of wood supply and forest
ecosystems. In these areas, annual wood offtake exceeds the annual rate of wood production from the
natural forests. In the Mahajanga region, more than half of woodfuel supply comes from the natural
forest, which is disappearing at an annual rate of 10 percent. The proposed project will include an
integrated woodfuels program for Mahajanga, which will test, on a pilot basis, a mix of measures that
the Government later could extend to the national level.
3.25      How the Woodfuels Market Operates. The main use of firewood and charcoal is for
cooking, but, on a smaller scale, industry uses both fuels to fire boilers, fuel kilns, and provide the
heat needed in drying processes. In rural areas, households cook mainly with firewood, while most
urban households prefer to cook with charcoal. Much of the firewood that rural households use
consists of dead wood that the local population gathers freely, but the production and distribution of
charcoal is a significant commercial operation. The charcoal each urban center consumes comes from
a catchment area around it, where entrepreneurs harvest wood from available forests or plantations,
convert it to charcoal, and distribute it to many small retail outlets. The estimated value of the
charcoal market is about 60 percent of the electricity market and 20 percent of the petroleum import
bill. Furthermore, the industry creates a great number of jobs. For example, in the Antananarivo
area alone there are 6,000 to 10,000 charcoalers.
3.26      Scope for Efficiency Improvements. Although it is technically possible to increase the
efficiency of woodstoves, which is generally low, there are practical difficulties to implementing
changes. One is the lack of a financial incentive, since the majority of households do not pay for the
wvood they gather. Another difficulty is the multipurpose use of firewood by rural households. In the
traditional rural Malagasy home, firewood stoves serve not only for cooking, but also for heating, and
even for light in the evening. Households would lose these benefits with changes aimed at improving
the fuel efficiency of the cooking process. In the industrial sector, however, energy audits under the
Energy I project found that efficiency gains were possible in processes using firewood as fuel, by
teaching boiler operators how to better control the combustion process, for example. The proposed
project will pursue this possibility as part of a program for energy conservation in industry and
transport.
3.27      The focus of the proposed project's energy efficiency component is on charcoal because
the greatest scope for efficiency improvements in the woodfuels subsector is clearly in the charcoal
network. Indeed, traditional methods for both, production and consumption of charcoal are
inefficient, and there is considerable scope for improvements. Under the Energy I project, the MEM
initiated actions in this field. It is for this purpose that the Directorate of Energy (DE) created the
UPED. To test improvements in the carbonization process, UPED had a ready-made wood supply
base -- a considerable amount of smallwood which FANALAMANGA, a state-owned pine plantation
near Antananarivo, was looking to market. The partnership of UPED and FANALAMANGA led to
the introduction of an improved kiln design which allows proper control of the carbonization process,
improving efficiency by 40 to 50 percent. FANALAMANGA has trained about 500 charcoalers in
this process.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                         15
3.28      Also, during the Energy I project, UPED looked into potential savings on the demand
side, by testing varieties of improved charcoal stoves used in various parts of the country. UPED
found that the most efficient models improved efficiency by about 30 percent. It then trained stove
manufacturers in the production of these stoves and mounted a promotional campaign in the area of
the capital. The improved models now sell at a premium due to the demand which the promotional
campaign created. The program overall has been successful. The proposed project's integrated
woodfuels program for Mahajanga will include subcomponents for better carbonization and for
improved stoves. Also, the program for promoting the production and use of improved charcoal
stoves will expand to cover a group of 16 cities.
3.29      Scope for Imorovements in Resource Management. Charcoalers usually harvest trees
before they have reached their optimum size and tend to exploit an area until its depletion, before
moving on to a new one. To address these problems, integrated long-term plans for the use of wood
resources are needed. These plans should include: (a) a system of permits, cutting fees, and pricing
that reflects the cost of resource replenishment; (b) legislation to limit the over-exploitation of natural
forests; and (c) programs that allow farmers private ownership of the areas they cultivate since
experience shows that private land ownership promotes tree planting and long-term care of both the
land and its wood resources. Because of the wide regional variation in environmental problems, it is
important to develop such plans on a regional basis.
3.30      Using the pilot program for Mahajanga as a testing ground, the proposed project will
develop a management plan for all wood resources in the area. The DE will take the leadership, but
will work closely with local authorities and local officials of the Directorate of Water and Forests
(Ministry of Agriculture). The program will include the promotion of local community responsibility
for managing community resources and will investigate the feasibility of using alternative energy
sources since wood plantations are not a cost-effective energy supply option for Mahajanga.
Enemy Efficiency
3.31      Within the framework of the long-term policy dialogue with IDA, the MEM has
consistently shown interest in energy efficiency issues. The design of the Energy I project reflected
this interest through the inclusion of a woodfuels component aimed at improvinig both the efficiency
of the carbonization process and of charcoal stoves, and a program of energy audits in industry which
identified some scope for efficiency improvements. The Government also has made progress in the
related areas of energy pricing and institutional reform, both for the electriciiy and petroleum
subsectors. In the future, the Government wishes to continue and extend the woodfuels program, as
already explained; begin implementing some of the recommnendations which resulted from the energy
audits in industry, and evaluate whether it is worthwhile to develop a full-fledged program of
incentives for industry; and explore the feasibility of setting up an institutional framework for
promoting energy efficiency nation-wide. Furthermore, since the transport sector is by far the largest
consumer of petroleum products, the Government also wishes to broaden the efficiency program to
cover the potential for efficiency improvements in this sector as well. The proposed project will
support these initiatives.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                         16
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
4.1       The proposed project aims at: (a) enhancing Madagascar's prospects for economic
recovery and growth by ensuring an adequate supply of electricity in the medium-term, both for
businesses and households, including an increased access of peri-urban and rural populations to the
service; (b) increasing economic and management efficiency in the power sub-sector, and attracting
private capital for investmnent, through institutional reform; and (c) promoting greater efficiency in the
production and consumption of energy, which, in the case of woodfuels, will at the same time, help
mitigate adverse environmental impacts. The proposed project will build on the Energy I project in
some of these areas, and complement the Petroleum Sector Reform project.
Proiect Description
4.2       The project components, which are briefly described below, fall under four major groups:
first, the bulk of JIRAMA's investment program; second, a program under MEM responsibility to
increase access of peri-urban and dynamic rural areas to the electricity service; third, actions in
support of the institutional reform of the power sector; and fourth, a program for energy efficiency
dealing mainly with the woodfuels subsector. Annex 4.1 provides a detailed description of these
components.
4.3       The part of JIRAMA's investment grogram that the project will finance (US$118.1
million) includes the rehabilitation and extension of generation, transmission and distribution facilities,
the provision of tools and equipment for maintenance, a loss reduction program, improvements in
human resources management and personnel training, a program for information technology, and
feasibility studies for two small hydroelectric projects. The project will rehabilitate the hydro power
stations of Antelomita I and II (8 MW in total), Mandraka (24 MW), Manandona (1.6 MW) and
Volobe (7 MW), and will provide 30 new diesel generating sets, 29 of them with unit capacities
ranging between 40 and 300 kW, and one larger unit of I MW, for JIRAMA's thermal systems. The
project will also finance the construction of transmission lines to link the ports of Manakara and
Mananjary, on the east coast, to the hydro power station of Namorona in the Fianarantsoa
interconnected system, as well as the rehabilitation of several existing transmission lines. Finally, the
project will finance the renovation of Antananarivo's distribution system, and the rehabilitation and
extension of distribution systems in Antsirabe, Toamasina, Antsiranana, Nosy Be, Mahajanga,
Toliary, and Fianarantsoa.
4.4       The electrification pro,ram (US$7.8 million) will define a strategy to extend electricity
services selectively, at low cost, including mechanisms to ease the financial barrier to connection, and
focusing on areas that can make productive use of electricity. MEM, with the support of consultants
financed by the project, will carry out a country survey and prepare a master plan, develop
appropriate design standards, identify and screen candidate projects, and design and build those
individual projects selected for construction. Disbursements for works and equipment for this
comnponent will be conditioned to the establishment of the regulatory agency for the power subsector
that is mentioned below.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                         17
4.5       The project will finance consulting services, training, data-processing equipment and
vehicles (US$3.2 million) to support the Government's program to reform Madagascar power
subsector which includes putting in place a new legal and regulatory framework, setting np a
regulatory agency, and restructuring and converting JIRAMA into a joint stock company subject to
company law.
4.6       The energv efficiency program (US$3.4 million) will comprise two components: a
program for energy conservation and a pilot program for sustainable supply of woodfuels to the
Mahajanga region. The program for energy conservation will continue disseminating the improved
techniques developed under Energy I for charcoal production and use, and will also pursue the
implementation of selected reconmmendations from the program of energy audits in industry carried
out under the Energy I project. Furthermore, the project will finance under this component
consulting services to assist MEM in exploring options to promote energy efficiency in transport, as
well as the feasibility of creating an entity to promote energy efficiency country-wide. The pilot
program for the supply of woodfuels to the Mahajanga region will include the preparation of a master
plan, dissemination of more efficient techniques in the production of charcoal and of improved
charcoal stoves, an investigation of alternative energy sources, and the development and
implementation of a plan to manage the region's forest resources.
Prolect PreDarstion
4.7       As already mentioned, many of the components of the proposed project are based on
studies carried out under the Energy I project, such as, for JIRAMA: the least-cost expansion plan for
generation, the studies for the rehabilitation and extension of hydro and diesel power stations; the
master plan for Antananarivo's distribution; and the master plan for information technology.
Furthermore, an advance for project preparation from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) has
financed or is financing the following services: preparation of a master plan for the expansion of
distribution networks in the country's largest cities other than Antananarivo; technical assistance for
JIRAMA to set up its organization and systems for project management; and the final engineering and
preparation of bidding documents for hydro rehabilitation. JIRAMA's own staff is doing the
engineering and preparing bidding documents for diesel power stations, transmission lines, new
service connections, loss reduction, and tools and equipment for maintenance.
4.8       For the institutional reform component, the Directorate of Energy prepared a first draft of
an Electricity law with the assistance of a consultant, and will finalize the drafting of all legal texts
necessary with the assistance of consultants financed from the PPF. MEM is also in the process of
recruiting consultants to define a restructuring program for JIRAMA. The woodfuels component is
based on the studies and experience of Energy I, and much preparatory work was done under that
project. Additionally, the PPF financed consulting services for the preparation of the pilot woodfuels
program for Mahajanga. For the electrification program, MEM and IDA have agreed on the terms of
reference for the survey and preparation of the master plan.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                                                 18
Table 4.1: Project Cost 9ummory
(FMG billion)              (USS  million)
Local   Foreign Total   Local   Foreign Total
A.  JIRANA's Investment Progrm
1. Generation                                   33.2    106.8   140.0       9.5     30.5    40.0
2. Transmission                                   5.3     12.5    17.9      1.5      3.6      5.1
3. Distribution                                  39.9    118.5   158.3     11.4     33.8    45.2
4. TooLs and Equipment for Maintenance            2.5      8.9    11.3      0.7      2.5      3.2
5. Other Programs
a.   Loss Reduction Program                   0.5      1.3      1.9     0.2       0.4     0.5
b.   Capacity Buitding for Management
and Training                          0.4       9.8    10.2      0.1      2.8     2.9
c.   Information Technology Program           2.1      7.1     9.2      0.6       2.0     2.6
d.   Feasibitity Studies for Hydro            0.5      3.5     4.0       0.2      1.0     1.2
Subtotal Other Programs                           3.6    21.7    25.3       1.0      6.2      7.2
Subtotal JIRANA's Investment Progrm              84.4   268.4   352.8      24.1     76.7   100.8
B.  Electrification Progrm                            3.8     19.9    23.7      1.1      5.7      6.8
C.  Institutional Reforu of the Power Sibsector
1. Legal and Regulatory Framework                 0.0      5.4     5.4      0.0      1.5      1.5
2. Corporatization of JIRAMA                      0.2      4.3     4.5      0.1      1.2      1.3
Subtotal Institutional Reform of the Power
Subsector                                         0.2      9.7     9.9      0.1      2.8      2.8
D.  Energy Efficiency Progra
1. Program for Energy Conservation                2.6      2.8     5.4      0.7      0.8      1.5
2. Mahajanga Woodfuels Pilot Program              2.2      3.8     6.0      0.6      1.1      1.7
Subtotal Energy Efficiency Progrm                 4.8      6.6    11.4      1.4      1.9     3.2
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                 93.2   304.6   397.8      26.6    87.0   113.7
PhysicaL Contingencies                       10.0    31.8    41.8       2.9      9.1    11.9
Price Contingencies                          54.1    225.1   279.2      -0.7      7.6     6.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                 157.3   561.5   718.8      28.8    103.7   132.5
Proiect Costs
4.9          Table 4.1 summarizes project costs and Annex 4.2 provides additional cost details. MEM
and JIRAMA prepared the cost estimates -- which were found reasonable by IDA -- with the
assistance of consultants for some of the components. The estimated total cost, including
contingencies, is US$132.5 million, of which US$103.7 million (or 78 percent) correspond to foreign
exchange expenditures, and US$17.0 million to import duties that JIRAMA will pay. Physical
contingencies of 10 percent has been adopted across the board, except for hydro rehabilitations, which
have a 15 percent contingency. The analysis derives price escalation from World Bank estimates of
local and international inflation for the six years of the implementation period (1996-2001).
Financing Plan
4.10         Table 4.2 presents the proposed financing plan. The proposed project will receive
financing from IDA (US$46.0 million), EIB (US$24.7 million), CFD (US$28.3 million), ABEDA
(US$6.6 million), the Government (US$0.2 million) and JIRAMA (US$26.7 million). EIB has
already appraised the project, and CFD will appraise during the first half of 199o. The conditions for
ABEDA financing are still under discussion. All cofinancing is parallel, so that any deiays will iiot
affect the implementation of the IDA-financed portion. The Government of Madagascar will on-lend
an amount equivalent to US$31.8 million of IDA Credit proceeds to JIRAMA, with a 25-year
repayment period including a 5-year grace period at an adjustable interest rate equal to the London
Interbank Rate (LIBOR) plus 0.9 percentage point percent per annum. JIRAMA will bear the foreign
exchange risk on that portion of the Credit. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and JIRAMA will be a condition of effectiveness. The Government will retain the
balance of US$14.2 million for the electrification program, the institutional reforn of the power
subsector, and the energy efficiency program which MEM will implement.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                               19
TabLe 4.2: Finrwcirg Plan
USS mitLion                Percent of TotaL
IDA                                      46.0                         34.7
EIB                                      24.7                         18.7
CFD                                      28.3                         21.3
ABEDA                                    6.6                           5.0
J I RAMA                                 26.7                         20.1
GOVERNMENT                               0.2                           0.2
TOTAL                               132.5                         100
Project Implementation
4.11       JIRAMA will implement Part A of the proposed project, while the Directorate of Energy
will implement Parts B, C and D. The implementation of the proposed project will take advantage of
the structures and arrangements in place and of the experience gained in the implementation of the
Energy I project. However, both the Directorate of Energy and JIRAMA will revise the
organizational arrangements for project management. As a condition of effectiveness, DE and
JIRAMA shall have appointed key staff, whose qualifications shall be satisfactory to IDA, for the new
project management units. The consulting firm that is assisting JIRAMA in improving its
organization and procedures for project management has prepared a project implementation manual.
JIRAMA's personnel will do most of the detailed engineering, construction of transmission and
distribution facilities, and electromechanical erection works in power stations, with specialized
assistance from manufacturers or contractors in certain areas, particularly for hydro power stations.
4.12       The Government will implement the reform program for the power subsector according to
the following timetable:
Legal and regulatory framework
Submission of the draft Electricity Law to National Assembly June 3, 1996
Expected date of enactment of the law                     July 31, 1996
Issuance of complementary regulations                      September 1, 1996
Establishment of the Regulatory Commission                 September 30, 1996
Effectiveness of revised electricity tariffs               October 1, 1997
Restructuring of JIRAMA
Beginning of restructuring study                           June 3, 1996
Beginning of implementation of the results of the study   January 1, 1997
Disbursements
4.13   The implementation of the proposed project will span a five-and-a-half year period, with
December 31, 2001, as the closing date. Annex 4.3 presents the project's implementation schedule.
Table 4.3 sets forth the categories of items which the IDA Credit will finance, the allocation of credit
amounts, and the percentage of expenditures for items to be financed in each category. The credit



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                                                 20
will finance 100% of foreign exchange expenditures and up to 90% of local expenJitures for goods,
works and training. Consulting services will be disbursed against 100%  of tA.,ai expenditures. Annex
4.4 compares the disbursement profile expected for the proposed project with that corresponding to
Bank-financed power projects in Africa. The disbursement profile for the Energy I project is also
shown. The implementation of Energy I was much affected by the political transition the country
went through in 1991-1993.
Table 4.3: Disbursement Schedule
(USS witlion)
Description                                   Percentage Financed by IDA                         Total
A.  JIRAMA
(1) Goods:
(a) Electromechanical
Equipment                        100% of foreign expenditures                       18.4
(b) General Plant                    100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures                       5.5
(2) Consulting Services:                  100%                                                3.2
B. MINISTRY OF ENERGY
(3) Works:                               100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of Local expenditures                       0.9
(4) Goods:
(a) ELectromechanical Equipment    100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of locaL expenditures                       4.7
(b) General PLant                    100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures                       0.4
(5) Consulting Services:                 100%                                                 7.7
(6) Training:                            100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of tocaL expenditures                       0.4
C. OTHER
(7) Refunding of the PPF:                Amounts Due                                          1.5
(8) UnatLocated:                                                                              3.3
TOTAL                                                                                       46.0
4.14         In order to expedite disbursements, two special accounts in US dollars, Fund-A  (Ministry
of Energy and Mines) and Fund-B (JIRAMA), will be opened in local commercial banks acceptable to
IDA. The authorized allocations will be US$350,000 and US$600,000 respectively, and cover four
months of eligible expenditures. Upon credit effectiveness, 50 percent of the authorized allocations
will be deposited into the special accounts. The remaining balances will be made available as needed.
All replenishment applications will be fully documented, except in the case of expenditures of less
than US$50,000 for works, goods and services, which may be claimed on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). All documents will be kept for review by Bank supervision missions and
external auditors.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                                                 21
Table 4.4:  Su=ary of PraFposd Proctmcnt Arrgemaents
(USS million)
Procurement Method
International   Local
Competitive   Competitive  Consulting
Bidding       Bidding      Services     Other       N.B.F.        TotaL
A.  Works
1.  JIRAMA works                                                -                                   8.7          8.7
2.  MEM eLectrification works                       -           0.9         -            -          -            0.9
C0.8)                                           (0.8)
B. Equipsent
1. Power system equipment
Hydro plant equipment                                                             0.8        28.8        29.7
(0.7)pj                 (0.7)
Diesel plant Equipment                       8.5          -           -           2.5         -           11.0
(7.1)                                (2. 1)                  (9.2)
Transmission and Distribution Equipment    8.5            0.5                      -         39.2        48.2
(7.8)       (0.5)                                            (8.3)
Service connection equipment                 9.9          -           -            -          -            9.9
(8.2)                                                        (8.2)
2. General plant
Cars; office and D. P. Equipment             2.3          0.2         -           0.5         0.2         3.3
(2.0)       (0.2)        -(0.5)J                 -           (2.6)
Equipment for 0 & M, and for
training center                            4.0          -           -           0.2         -           4.3
(3.3)                                (0. 2)!gl               (3.5)
C.  Services
1. Engineering and consultancies                    -           -           9.4          0.3        3.8         13.5
(9.3)       (0.3)S/                 (9.6)
2.  Training                                        -           -           1.1          0.4        -            1.5
(1.1)       (0.4)f/                 (1.5)
D. Niscellanueus
1.  Land and Rights of Way                          -           -           -            -          0.1          0.1
2.  PPF Refinancing                                 -           -           0.9          0.5        -            1.5
-           -          (0.9)        (0.5)                   (1.5)
Total                                                  33.4          1.6        11.4         5.3       80.8        132.5
(28.5)       (1.5)      (11.3)        (4.7)                  (46.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
p/ Direct contracting for proprietary spares.
b/ USS1.4 million direct contracting for proprietary spares, and USS0.7 million Limited international bidding
for specialized equipment including fuel processing equipment.
cJ From U.N. agencies.
d/  International shopping for measuring instruments and software to be used in the loss reduction program.
e/ Direct contracting to finalize feasibility study for the Ambodiroka hydro project.
f/ Travel expenses, subsistence and tuition equivalent for training abroad.
Procurement
4.15         Table 4.4 summarizes the project elements, their estimated costs and the proposed method
of procurement. IDA will finance mainly goods (US$32.7 million) and consulting services
(US$11.3 million). The goods contracts will be primarily for new diesel generating sets
(US$5.7 million), electrical equipment for transmission and distribution (US$16.5 million), and
general plant (US$6.1 million). The designation "general plant" includes: tools and equipment for
maintenance; vehicles, including specialized trucks for transmission and distribution work; data
processing equipment; other office equipment; and equipment for JIRAMA's training center. IDA
will also finance purchases of proprietary spares, for an estimated US$2.1 million, from original
suppliers. Consulting services will be needed mainly for institutional reform, capacity building for
management, training, and research and extension activities related to the woodfuels programs.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                          22
4.16      Of the total US$32.7 million in goods that IDA will finance, US$28.5 million will be
subject to procurement through ICB. Other procurement methods will be used for the rest, as follows:
proprietary spare parts for the rehabilitation of hydro and thermal power stations in lots of less than
US$400,000, with an aggregate limit of US$2.1 million would be procured directly from original
suppliers; special fuel and lubricant-oil-processing equipment (US$0.7 million), for which a limited
number of manufacturers exist, will be procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB);
measuring instruments and data-processing equipment for the loss reduction program (US$0.2 million)
will be procured through international shopping; locally-produced materials for distribution lines, such
as wood poles and cross-arms, as well as some vehicles, computers, and office equipment, in lots of
US$250,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount of US$700,000, will be procured through local
competitive bidding; and vehicles, computers, and other office equipment, in lots of US$300,000 or
less, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000 will be procured through UNDP's Inter-Agency
Procurement Services (IAPSO).
4.17      The Directorate of Energy and JIRAMA staff handling the procurement and disbursement
processes under the Energy I project will continue to be in charge of these tasks for the proposed
project. In addition to the experience they have gained, this staff also participated in two procurement
seminars organized by the World Bank in Antananarivo. JIRAMA will prepare bidding documents for
electric power transmission and distribution equipment, a field where the utility has sufficient
experience. Consultants will prepare bidding documents for electrical equipment needed for the
electrification program under responsibility of the Directorate of Energy and for equipment for
JIRAMA's training center. The Bank's standard bidding documents will be used. The submission by
MEM and JIRAMA, for IDA review, of bidding documents corresponding to all contracts to be
awarded during the first year of implementation of the project will be a condition of effectiveness. The
procurement of works and goods which other agencies are co-financing will take place in accordance
with those agencies' practices.
4.18      During project supervision, Bank-financed contracts for goods and works above a threshold
of US$250,000 will be subject to the Bank's prior review procedures, covering about 95 percent of the
total value of Bank-financed goods and works. The remainder will be subject to selective post-award
review at the rate of one in four works contracts and one in eight goods contracts. Consulting services
contracts will be subject to prior review when the contract value is US$100,000 or more in the case of
consulting firms, and when the contract value is US$50,000 or more in the case of individual
consultants.
Accounting, Financial Reportin2 and Auditing
4.19      The Directorate of Energy will establish and maintain separate project accounts both at the
central office and the various regional offices responsible for project execution. The consolidation at
the central level will begin with project implementation. DE will maintain such accounts in accordance
with sound accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank. DE will provide interim and
annual financial statements to reflect the financial performance of the project. JIRAMA will maintain
its accounting system in accordance with sound and recognized accounting principles and practices
acceptable to the Bank, to provide interim financial reports and annual financial statements that reflect
the financial performance and position of the project and JIRAMA, from the commencement of project
execution. Annual auditing of the project accounts will be performed by external auditors deemed
satisfactory by the Bank. These audits will include the Special Accounts and the SOEs. The Bank will
receive the report of the auditors within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Audits of the funds
onlent and made available to JIRAMA will be done in the context of the overall audits of the company.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                             23
The auditors' report will include a "management letter" and any other material that is relevant to the
interpretation of the audit. The foregoing project accounting, financial reporting and auditing
arrangements should provide adequate and timely information to the Bank for supervision of the
project.
4.20      MENI and JIRAMA will collect and record information as follows: (a) prompt reporting of
contract awards; and (b) comprehensive quarterly reports to IDA indicating: (i) revised cost estimates
of individual contracts and for the total project, including best estimates for physical and price
contingencies; (ii) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award
and completion time for indicated contracts; (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods
of procurement; and (c) preparation of an implementation completion report wi.thin six months of the
Credit Closing Date.
Environmental Considerations
4.21      The proposed project falls into Environmental Category B. In March 1994, a consultant
did an environmental analysis for transmission facilities which the proposed project will construct. The
analysis, which was approved by IDA, confirmed that the transmission corridors and substation sites
that JIRAMA has designated for the planned installations do not traverse any environmentally sensitive
areas. The proposed systems do cross a variety of inhabited and agricultural areas, and the primary
environmental issue is therefore the potential socio-cultural and anthropological impact. Environmental
planning to mitigate any adverse effects will focus on good route planning and construction practices.
Annex 4.5 provides a summary of the environmental analysis. Several of the project components will
help enhance the quality of the environment. The rehabilitation of hydro plants, and the incorporation
of several centers now served from diesel plants to systems that have surplus hydro generating capacity
will help reduce CO2 emissions and environmental pollution. The substitution of hydro for thermal
generation in Manakara and Mananjary, through the incorporation of those towns to the Fianarantsoa
interconnected system, will reduce contamination of the surrounding lagoon systems with fuel and
lubricant from the existing diesel plants. Improving energy efficiency will also lessen pollution. The
woodfuels components will reduce deforestation.
Project Monitoring and Supervision
4.22      MEM and JIRAMA have agreed with IDA on the records and reports necessary to monitor
the progress of the project and the achievement of its objectives. During project implementation, there
will be two supervision missions per year to monitor progress, as well as project costs and compliance
with legal covenants. Annex 4.6 shows a series of indicators that will be used to monitor progress in
the achievement of project objectives and in JIRAMA's performance. The Government and IDA have
agreed that project supervision will include a joint annual review of the project with a mid-term review
by December 1998, with the participation of JIRAMA and the cofinanciers. The purpose of the
reviews is to: exchange views on all matters relating to the progress of the project, and agree on
actions that may be necessary to keep implementation on schedule; and verify progress in implementing
the institutional reform of the electricity subsector. Further discussion on reporting requirements will
take place during project launching soon after Credit effectiveness.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                        24
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF JIRAMA
Introduction
5.1       This chapter discusses the principal problems affecting the finances and financial
management of JIRAMA, especially those constraining the development of power operations. The
chapter also proposes steps to establish a sound financial base for the future operations and
development of both, the power and water subsectors. Finally, since JIRAMA's power section will
be the main beneficiary of the proposed IDA credit, the chapter presents the financial outlook for that
section through the year 2000, taking into account various corrective measures which JIRAMA is
implementing in the short-term.
Overall Operations
5 2       JIRAMA's overall finances are in an unsatisfactory condition and in need of restructuring.
Several factors have led to the company's weak financial condition: the failure in the past to set
adequate tariffs; investments in non-productive plant; Government directives for JIRAMA to provide
service, without adequate compensation, in areas of low demand; high energy and water losses; the
failure of the Government and other major public sector consumers to settle their bills; and some
unsuitable accounting practices, particularly the failure to revalue fixed assets. Between Fiscal Years
1990 and 1992, JIRAMA's operations became increasingly unprofitable: net financial losses rose from
FMG 2.2 billion to FMG 9.8 billion, after reaching FMG 13.2 billion in 1991.
5.3       The higher tariffs introduced since FY89 finally brought about a net profit in FY93,
which amounted to FMG 10.8 billion. However, in 1994 there was again a deficit of FMG 19.8
billion, caused by a combination of stagnant sales and the effects of rapid devaluation on debt service.
Tariff indexation is designed to compensate for the latter effect, but in 1994 the correction was
insufficient because of the abruptness of devaluation and because of the time lag for the correction to
take effect. Overall accumulated losses for power and water services as of December 31, 1994, were
FMG 94.8 billion (US$24.5 million). The Government has allowed JIRAMA to delay its annual debt
service payments, which are accumulated in a "State's current account", resulting in an excessive
amount of outstanding debt and an unacceptable debt/equity ratio. Therefore, corrective measures are
necessary if JIRAMA's proposed development programs are to be satisfactorily implemented.
5.4       Until recently, JIRAMA maintained an analytical accounting system which produced
separate financial results for the power and water sections, but the company operated its cash and
bank accounts on a joint basis for both sections. Under this arrangement, it was possible to determine
the cash and bank balance of each section only at the end of the Fiscal Year, when the final accounts
were prepared. In effect, there was no separate cash management for the individual sections. The
audited balance sheets indicate that the water section had been drawing increasingly on the power
section's funds for liquidity, and at the end of FY94, the water section owed the electricity section
FMG 28.6 billion (US$7.4 million) on which it was charged interest at 12 percent per year. This
arrangement could cause problems for program implementation for two sections which envisage to
undertake significant development programs. JIRAMA has therefore implemented a separation of
funds following an agreement reached at negotiations, and described in para. 5.11. Furthermore, a
system of cash management was established for each section. Under these arrangements, both
sections will be financially autonomous.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                                           25
5.5         Since the Govemment will on-lend two thirds of the proposed IDA credit to JIRAMA,
and the utility's power section will be the principal beneficiary, the following paragraphs analyze the
recent past and expected future financial performance of that section only. Annex 5.1 provides
detailed income statements, balance sheets, and funds flow statements for the period FY94 to
FY2001. The assumptions for the forecasts are in Annex 5.2, and Annex 5.3 provides projected
financial ratios and other indicators.
Electricity Section
5.6         Past Eamings Performance. The table below summarizes the section's eamings
performance for the four-year period FY91 to FY94.
Table 5.1: Perforwince of JIRMAR's Electricity Section
FY91                  FY92                FY93               FY94
Sales in MWh                   393,043               409,965              438,164            436,940
FMG (millions)
Operating Revenue               53,653.3              62,689.4             88,679.0          117,333.6
Operating Expenses              61.218.7              54443.               56.585.T           97.216.4
Operating Income (Loss)         (7,586.4)              8,245.6             32,093.3           20,117.2
Interest Charged               (10.993.3)             (8.747.6)           (13.587.8)         (23.372.9)
(18,579.7)             (502)               18,505.5           (3,255.7)
Interest Received                3.286.1               6.634.3             8.969.0            1 1.0
(15,293.6)             6,132.3             27,474.5            8,655.3
Exchange Adjustments             1,817.6             (14,584.8)           (16,098.0)         (28,566.0)
Non-operating Income                                      99.6                110.4               72.6
Net Profit (Loss)              (13.476.0)             (8.352.9)            11.486.9          (19.838.1)
5.7         Electricity tariffs were increased by 30 percent in 1989, 10 percent in 1990, 18 percent in
late 1991, and 10 percent in 1992. In December 1992, the Government approved four increases of
five percent each, for application at six-month intervals beginning in January 1993, and indexed
electricity tariffs to currency devaluation, changes in fuel cost, and cost of living. Up to 1992, the
increases were insufficient to avoid significant net losses. Only in 1993, with higher energy sales, did
JIRAMA have a net profit. However, in 1994, losses of FMG 19.8 billion were again recorded. As
of end-FY94, the accumulated net losses of the electricity section were FMG 63.3 billion
(US$16.4 million).
5.8         Past Financing Performance. Table 5.2 below summarizes the section's reliance on
internal vs. external sources to meet its financing needs during the four-year period FY91-FY94.



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                                                   26
Table 5.2: Sources of Fuids, Electricity Section
FY91              FY92              FY93              FY94
FMG (millions)
Net Revenues                                      24,141.2          24,176.0          53,182.5          70,887.9
Debt Service                                     (29,073.8)        (25,694.6)        (34,016.5)        (54,516.9)
Variation in Working Capital (excLuding cash)  (6.759.4)               (960.4)       (13.922.8)         (1.823.1)
Available for Self Financing                     (11.692.0)             558.2          5.243.2          14.547.8
Investment                                        29.926.3          41.095.4          38.930.8          528740.7
Financing Requirement                             41.618.3          41.653.6          33.687.6          38.192.9
Sources
State's Current Account                           22,190.6          22,735.5          16,146.3          37,877.7
Borrowings                                        12,241.5          27,579.8          29,506.6          19,218.6
Grants and Contributions                           6,199.0            7,032.2         32,514.1           9,638.2
Consumer's deposits                                   92.3               21.4             17.2                7.6
40.723.4          57.368.9         78.184.2          66.742.1
Cash Increase (Decrease)                            (894.9)          15.715.3         44.496.6          28.549.2
The available self-financing of the section was negative in 1991, and negligible in 1992, while the
debt service coverage was unsatisfactory for both years. Following increased tariffs, the funds
available for self-financing were equivalent to about 14 and 28 percent of investment in 1993 and
1994 respectively. Debt service coverage also improved significantly.
5.9          Financial Position. The financial position of the electricity section as of December 31,
1994, was as follows:
Table 5.3
FMG (millions)            Percent Share
Fixed Assets
Net physical assets                                                        220,846.8
Capitalized Exchange Losses (net)                                          257,916.3
Miscellaneous investments                                                     1.041.0
479,804.1
Current Assets
Cash and Bank                                            105,684.8
Water Section Loan                                        28,594.8
Receivables
Public Sector Clients                                   18,641.8
Other                                                   36,005.9
Stock (net)                                               27,855.7
Payments in advance                                        4,178.3
JIRAMA's subsidiaries                                      2 702.1
223,663.4
Less: Total Current Liabilities                          123.88.9           99.774.5
Total Net Assets                                                           579.578.6
Financed by:
Capital and Provisions                                                  59,579.0               10
Long Term Debt                                       363,949.8
State's Current Account                              155,208.0
Consumers Deposits                                       841.8         519.999.6               90
579.578.6             100



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                        27
The debt/equity ratio of 90/10 is unsatisfactory. It should gradually improve to an acceptable level in
the near future, however, with a revaluation of fixed assets, the conversion of EIB debt (see para.
5.11(d)), the reduction of the State's current account (considered by JIRAMA to be long-term debt),
and improved earnings. With the proposed write-off of the debit balances for both the water division
and JIRAMA's subsidiaries in the electricity section's FY95 balance sheet against the State's current
account (para. 5.11(e)), the current ratio is expected to normalize at about 2.
5.10      As of December 31, 1994, current assets included arrears in payments due from the
Government and its agencies, amounting to FMG 11.0 billion (US$2.8 million). These arrears have
since been settled through a compensation against amounts due to the Government by JIRAMA. The
Government and JIRAMA will settle the arrears remaining at the end of 1995 not later than May 31,
1996. Furthermore, from January 1, 1996 onward, the Government and JIRAMA have put into
effect simplified payment procedures, to ensure the settlement of electricity bills of the Govermnent
and its agencies within three months after bill receipt. Regarding the settlement by autonomous
municipalities of bills for public electricity consumption in their localities, it has been agreed that, in
consultation with the Government and the municipalities, and not later than December 31, 1996,
JIRAMA will establish a mechanism designed to ensure full recovery of the costs incurred in
providing public lighting and the use of electricity in public buildings within the confines of such
municipalities, taking into account the statutory powers of the municipalities concemed to impose a
surcharge on electricity bills.
Restructuring Reconunendations
5.11      During negotiations, JIRAMA and the Government agreed to the following measures:
(The deadlines indicated have been adjusted to reflect delays in credit processing).
Separation and Improvement of Cash Management for the Electricity and Water Sections
(a)   JIRAMA would maintain separate bank accounts and cash management for its power and
water sections. As of January 1, 1996, all receipts and payments for those services will be
paid into or from their respective accounts. (Actual).
(b)    On January 2, 1995, JIRAMA would deposit, in the bank account of the water section, an
amount of FMG 15 billion, as liquid working capital, and a provision would be made in the
power section's FY95 accounts for such an amount. (Actual).
(c)    Effective January 2, 1996, JIRAMA would ensure that any surplus funds from the power
section will not be made available for any other purpose (including payment of dividends)
unless the financial requirements for the section's operations, debt service, additional working
capital, and investment have been fully met. (Actual).
Improvement of JIRAMA's Capital Structure
(d)    As provided for in the EIB Credit Agreement No. 70660, the Government would convert an
amount of debt in the power section's accounts, presently estimated at FMG 32.4 billion, into
equity. (Actual).



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                          28
(e)    The debit balances for the water section and JIRAMA's subsidiaries in the power section's
FY94 balance sheet would be written off against the State's current account. (Actual). These
amounts are the following:
FMG (millions)
Water section                43,594.8
JIRAMA's Subsidiaries         2,702.1
Total                        46.296.9
Additionally, the Government and JIRAMA would negotiate a settlement for the balance of
the State's current account of FMG 155.2 billion. This will ensure that JIRAMA attains a
debt/equity ratio not exceeding 70/30 as of December 31, 1996. As of January 1, 1996, the
State's current account will be closed. (Negotiations are ongoing).
(f)    Effective FY96, JIRAMA will maintain its debt service to the Government on a current basis.
5.12      Additionally, the consultants commissioned by MEM for JIRAMA's restructuring will:
(a)    Revalue the power section's fixed assets. JIRAMA will incorporate the revised values in its
books of accounts as of January 1, 1997.
(b)    Review the adequacy of present methods of allocating expenses common to the power and
water sections. MEM will provide IDA with the results of the study and make JIRAMA
introduce any agreed improvements into its allocation practices by January 1, 1997.
(c)    Define possible measures to alleviate the financial losses incurred by the poweer section as a
consequence of investments executed by JIRAMA, at the Government's request, which
subsequently proved not to be financially viable or economically justifiablc. The scheduled
completion date for this part of the study is December 1, 1996, following which the
Government, JIRAMA and IDA will agree on the specific actions necessary.
Furthermore, not later than January 30, 1997, the Government shall submit to IDA its proposals for
the reorganization, recapitalization and transformation of JIRAMA into a joint stock company, and
subject to the approval of IDA, proceed thereafter to implement such proposals.
Financine Plan
5.13      The estimated financing requirements of the Electricity Section for the six-year period
FY1996-2001, and the sources of financing, are as follows:



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                                   29
TabLe 5.4: Estimted Firnacing Requireients and Sources of Funds, Electricity Section
FMG (millions)    USS miLLion Percent share
Reauirements
1996-2001 Investment                          867.652.3         159.8
Sources
Net Revenue                    1,130,477.0
Less Debt Service                516,460.9
Less Increase in Working Capital   313,685.3
Less Dividends                    10.,000.0   290.330.           53.5           33.5
Borrowing (net increase)                       540,937.2          99.6          62.3
Grants, Contributions, Deposits                 36 384.3          6.7            4.2
-   867.652.3    159.8          100.0
The capital expenditure in the financing plan includes the investment for the proposed project during
the period FY96-2001. The plan takes into account: the conversion of EIB debt into equity, the
closing of the State's current account after the write-off of amounts owed to the power section by the
water section and JIRAMA subsidiaries and conversion of the balance to equity; and the provision for
modest dividend payments to the Government. For Energy I, the Government agreed, as a
contribution to that project, to exonerate JIRAMA from customs duties. For the proposed project, the
power section's forecasts indicate that internal cash generation would be sufficient to pernit JIRAMA
to pay the customs duties, estimated at FMG 92.3 billion (US$17 million). Accordingly, JIRAMA has
agreed that beginning January 1, 1996, it will take all measures necessary to ensure that its power
section's annual internal cash generation will be not less than 30 percent of the annual average
capital expenditure incurred or expected to be incurred during the previous, current, and succeeding
fiscal years.
5.14       JIRAMA increased its electricity tariffs by an average of 8 percent effective April 1994,
and 35 percent effective August 1, 1994, corresponding to the last of the four half-yearly 5 percent
increases which the Government had decreed at the end of 1992, plus the application of the indexation
formula. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that JIRAMA would continue to make any
further adjustments of its electricity tariffs required in accordance with the rules for the revision of
electricity tariffs provided in Decree No. 7800-92. After negotiations, tariffs have been raised three
times, for a total increase of 63 percent, as a result of indexation.
5.15       As a protection for the financing plan, JIRAMA has agreed to submit, for IDA 's approval,
a financing plan for any capital expenditure additional to the agreed investment program which
exceeds US$2 million equivalent. Furthermore, JIRAMA agreed not to incur debt for its power
section without IDA 's approval unless a reasonable forecast of revenues and expenditures showed that
the estimated net revenues of the power section for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be
incurred was at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of the power section, in each
year, on all the section's debt, including the debt to be incurred.
Future Finances
5.16       The table below gives the salient features of the power section's financial forecasts for the
period FY95 through FY2001:



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                                                30
TibLe 5.5: FinanciaL Forecsts, Etectricity Section
FY95      FY96       FY97       FY98       FY99      FY00       FY01
Sates GWh                               444        462        482        504        529       563        599
FMG (millions)
Total Operating Revenue              199,663    250,834   275,054   297,636    322,765  346,555    416,329
Total Operating Expenses 1/          128.233    145.215   156.978   165.406    199.643  218.           253.662
Operating Income                    71,430    105,619   118,076   132,230    123,122  127,669    162,667
Interest Charged                  (30,577)   (32,599)  (31,989)  (30,059)   (26,596) (23,231)   (17,634)
Interest Received                   12,085     10,129    15,992    18,371       19,268   20,305      27,209
Other Income                           250         250       250        250        250       250         250
Exchange losses                   (44.512)   (55.271)  (58.767)  (54.749)   (37.690) (39.199)   (40.511)
Net Profit                             8.676     28.128    43.562    66.043       78.354   85.794    131.981
Current Ratio                          1.8        2.0        2.2        2.5        2.7       3.0         3.2
Debt/Equity Ratio                    68/32      67/33      64/36      62/38      61/39    58/42        52/48
Debt Service Coverage Ratio              1.4         1.5       1.6        1.9        2.6       2.8         3.3
1/ Includes amortization of deferred charges for debt revaluation.
The financial projections do not include the effect of JIRAMA'S financial restructuring, which will be
defined by the restructuring study, nor of the revised system of electricity tariffs to be introduced as
part of legal and regulatory reform. These changes, which aim to improve efficiency, should not
negatively affect JIRAMA's finances. As JIRAMA becomes more commnercially oriented, dividends
should increase, and tariffs might go down in real terms to transfer some of the efficiency gains to
consumers. In view of the economic uncertainties, JIRAMA has prepared these forecasts on a
conservative basis. Nevertheless, they do indicate a significant improving trend after FY95 in all the
basic financial parameters. The indicated growth of sales is 4 percent, increasing to 6 percent by the
end of the decade. Electricity pricing is assumed to evolve in line with the indexation formulas
currently in effect. The debt/equity ratio, which is presently a source of concern, should improve
significantly after the proposed corrective measures are in place, and will improve further with the
settlement of the large State's current account balance (para. 5.1 1(e)). As economic conditions
improve, there is reason to believe that actual results will be even better.
VI. BENEFITS. RISKS. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. BENEFITS
6.1          The project will: (a) provide about 45,000 new connections to households and industries,
one third of which will be in peri-urban and dynamic rural areas; (b) serve an additional demnand of
about 240 million kWh/year; (c) increase the reliability of supply and reduce losses from 18 to 12
percent of net generation; (d) substitute hydro-electricity for more expensive thermal generation by
extending the life of existing hydroelectric plants, and by connecting several centers (about 1,000
kW), now served by diesel plants to systems that have surplus hydroelectric capacity; (e) reduce
fuelwood consumption by 100,000 tons/year through efficiency improvements in the production and
use of fuelwood and charcoal in some 16 cities; (f) train about 450 artisans in the production of
improved stoves and about 300 charcoalers, each producing 20-30 bags per month and using 40% less
wood; and (g) lower, through the use of improved stoves and cooking practices, the relative share of



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                           31
energy expenditures in household budgets by about 20%. Furthermore, the reform component is
laying the ground for private sector participation in the electricity subsector and empowering
communities and consumers to decide the type and speed of the country's electrification.
B. COST RECOVERY
6.2       In electricity, an adequate tariff system as well as acceptable and improving collection
efficiency ensure that the costs of supply are recovered from beneficiaries. Presently, there are no
Government subsidies. The structure of JIRAMA's tariff system is based on the LRMC and its level
is automatically adjusted in response to changes in the economic environment ensuring the utility's
financial equilibrium (paras. 3.6 to 3.8). There is a small cross subsidy from the larger hydroelectric
systems to the thermal systems -- tariffs in the former are about three percent higher than they should
be -- but this subsidy is gradually being eliminated. There is also a social tariff which will be
maintained. Power sector reform will introduce a revised pricing system based on the same principles
but including a mechanism to gradually elicit from the utilities efficiency gains that will be shared
with consumers. With the exception of a large industrial client in Mahajanga, with whom JIRAMA is
negotiating a solution, collection delays from private clients are within 60 days. Public sector clients,
on the other hand, have in the past tended to accumulate large arrears which were periodically settled
through cross-debt compensations. The Government and JIRAMA have taken measures to ensure
timely payment in the future (para. 5.10).
C. COST-BENEFIT AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
JIRAMA's Investment Proeram
6.3       Analysis of Alternatives. The proposed project includes the bulk of JIRAMA's
investments in generation, transmission and distribution rehabilitation and extension for the period
1996-2001. For generation, the program emphasizes rehabilitating existing hydroelectric plants, and
is the result of a least-cost expansion planning study carried out with the assistance of consultants
financed by IDA under Energy I. The alternative of increasing diesel-based generation was more
costly. For the majority of the small isolated centers, however, the only alternative availablc is the
addition of small diesel generating sets (40 to 300 kW). In transmission, an extension will
incorporate several centers now served from diesel plants to systems that have surplus hydioelectric
capacity. Higher fuel costs make the alternative of letting the systems develop separately more
expensive. In distribution, the project will finance rehabilitation, expansion and renovdtion of
networks in the country's eight largest urban centers. Expansion will be done following a master plan
prepared by consultants that IDA financed, which considered different alternative voltage levels and
timing of network additions. In Antananarivo, where the capacity of the exist'ng 5-kilovolt
distribution system has become insufficient for the city, the network will be renovated using a 20-kY
voltage level, following a master plan prepared within the framework of the Energy I project by
consultants with French financing. The study considered several alternative voltage levels and
network structures which the technico-economic analysis found less adequate.
6.4       Cost-Benefit Analysis. The cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the investment
program as a whole and for each of the individual components to ensure that they are justified. The
capital costs of the investment program, together with incremental fuel costs, and incremental
operation and maintenance costs associated with the investment program, are shown in Annex 6.1.
All costs are expressed in terms of their equivalent border values. The incremental demand served,



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                            32
was determined through simulations of the operation of JIRAMA's systems with and without the
investment program. On this basis, the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) would be 22 percent.
6.5       However, the EIRR calculated as described above, better measures the adequacy of tariffs
than the true economic merit of the investment program. A superior measure is the consumers'
willingness to pay (WTP) for the incremental electricity sales. Using WTP as a proxy for benefits to
domestic consumers and the respective average tariffs as benefit proxies for incremental non-domestic
consumers' consumption, the EIRR would be 31 percent. Annex 6.1 shows the derivation of the
WTP.
6.6       The analysis tested the sensitivity of the EIRR to less favorable scenarios, including: (a) a
15 percent increase in investment costs; (b) a 40 percent increase in fuel costs; and (c) a 20 percent
drop in expected benefits, or a drop of one percentage point in expected demand. This analysis
indicates that the investment program is most sensitive to a drop in benefits. Even in this case,
however, the EIRR would be 15 percent.
Table 6.1: Sensitivity Analysis
Case                                            Rate of Return (percent)
Using Tariffs Using WTP
Base Case                                         22           31
(a) 15% increase in investment costs              19           26
(b) 40% increase in fuel prices                   21           28
(c) 20% drop in expected benefits
(or one percentage point lower
rate of growth in expected demand)            15           22
6.7       EIRRs on Subcomponents of JIRAMA's Investment Program. The EIRRs on the various
subcomponents of the rehabilitation work under the proposed project range from 12 percent to 57
percent. The following sections briefly review the salient features of the calculations for the
investment program's subcomponents. Annex 6.1 outlines the details of this analysis.
6.8       Hydroplant Rehabilitation. The rehabilitation of the Mandraka, Antelomitas, and
Manandona hydropower stations will help meet the demand in the Antananarivo Interconnected
System at least cost. The estimated EIRR of the rehabilitation of these power stations is 57 percent.
This rate is high but quite usual for this type of rehabilitation. Even under highly unfavorable
circumstances (a 25 percent increase in investment costs combined with a 25 percent drop in expected
benefits), the estimated EIRR would be 31 percent.
6.9       Transmissicn Line Subcomponent. The ports of Manakara and Mananjary, now receiving
electricity from diesel plants, will be connected by means of transmission lines to the hydro power
station of Namorona in the Fianarantsoa Interconnected system. The economic analysis compared the
present value of total system costs for two alternative expansion programs to meet the projected



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                             33
demand (1995-2000) for the systems of Fianarantsoa, Manakara and Mananjary. One of them
assumed that the three systems would operate in isolation, as they are at present. The other assumed
the interconnection of these systems. On the basis of the assumptions in Annex 6. ', the base case-
equalizing discount rate is 16 percent, with the interconnection having the lowest value of system
costs up to that rate.
6.10      A sensitivity analysis of this rate considered both a 20 percent drop in fuel costs and a 20
percent increase in line-investment costs. Given these two conditions, the equalizing discount rate
would be 13 percent and 11.5 percent respectively. Using the average tariff for Zone 1 as a proxy
for economic benefits, the estimated EIRR is 28.7 percent. Sensitivity tests show that this rate is
most sensitive to a drop in expected sales. For example, a 25 percent decline in expected sales would
lower the EIRR to 20.7 percent.
6.11      Rehabilitation and Extension of Diesel Plants. The least-cost solution for meeting the
demand in secondary centers requires the rehabilitation and extension of diesel plants, most of which
are small. Annex 6.1 provides the EIRR calculations for these centers. Using tariffs as a proxy for
economic benefits, the estimated low case EIRR is 23 percent. Separate sensitivity tests for a 15
percent increase in investment costs, a 20 percent increase in fuel costs, and a 10 percent decrease ir.
expected benefits indicated that the EIRR would decline to 19, 18 and 17 percent respectiveiy.
6.12      Rehabilitation and Extension of Distribution Networks. The rehabilitation, renovation
and extension of the distribution networks in Antananarivo and other large urban centers will permit
JIRAMA to meet demand growth, keeping pace with urban development, and to reduce the level of
losses. The estimated EIRR on the distribution component is 12 percent. The sensitivity analysis
shows that increases of 15 percent in investment costs, supply costs or expected demand would lower
the EIRR to 10, 6 and 9.5 percent respectively. Annex 6.1 gives the details of the EIRR calculation.
Electrification Pro2ram
6.13      The electrification program for suburban and dynamic rural areas will result in savings
from the substitution of electric power in end-uses which currently depend on kerosene, candles and
batteries. MEM, with the assistance of consultants financed by the project, will determine economic
criteria for the electrification program. Only individual projects with expected rates of return
exceeding ten percent would be undertaken.
Institutional Reform of the Electric Power Subsector
6.14      Several benefits will result from policy reforms in the electric power sector to eliminate
the monopoly of the state. These benefits include: (a) efficiency gains, which will be shared by
consumers through adequate tariff regulation; (b) greater sustainability of electricity supply through
mobilization of private capital for investment in the sector; and (c) savings in public resources, which
the Government can reallocate to social programs.
Program for Country-Wide EnerLv Efficiency Improvements
6.15      Annex 6.2 provides an analysis of the benefits of introducing improved charcoal stoves to
a medium-sized city with a population of 12,700, which yield an EIRR of about 22 percent.
Concerning the national program for energy conservation, quantitative estimates of benefits would be
premature at the present time, since they will depend on data to be gathered during the



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                        34
implementation of the project. Annex 6.2 also provides details on the economic analysis of the
Mahajanga pilot woodfuel program, which has an estimated EIRR of 42 percent. It is estimated that
wood savings from this program would reach 40,000 tons/year after five years and stabilize at about
100,000 tons/year after 12 years.
D. RISKS
6.16      The possible devclopments that may adversely affect the project can be divided into pre-
and post-commissioning risks. The pre-commissioning risks relate to: (a) construction cost increase;
and (b) delay in completion. The post-commissioning risks are related to: (a) the market risk; and (b)
government policies and actions on market structure and regulation, and pricing policy.
6.17      The risk of construction-cost increase was minimized by taking into account cost data for
similar works and setting aside contingencies in proportion to the perceived risks (15% for hydro-
rehabilitation and 10% for other components); the risk of delays in completion have been reduced
through: (a) advance preparation of bidding documents; (b) provision, as part of project preparation,
of assistance to set up the organization and management systems for project implementation, and to
prepare detailed implementation schedules for each component; and (c) experience gained by both
JIRAMA and MEM with the implementation of the Energy I Project (Cr. 1787-MAG). The woodfuel
component will be implemented by MEM through local consultants and NGOs which are closer to the
conmmunities most affected by the woodfuel crisis.
6.18      Once the project is constructed, the market risk becomes predominant. The sensitivity
analysis (para. 6.7) has evaluated the effect on the return to the project of a drop in sales, due, e.g.,
to an economic downturn. Due the rehabilitative nature of the majority of the work, the economics of
the project remains sound. However, other policies and actions the Government could take may have
a negative effect on the project. There is a risk that, for social and political reasons, the Government
might renege on tariff policy, or try to create barriers to private sector participation. As has been
shown by the sensitivity analysis on the program as a whole as well as components thereof, a
reduction in benefits either through lower prices, lower quantities or both would significantly affect
their rate of return. Reneging on commitments to open up the electricity subsector to private
participation would have some serious medium to long-term effects as the Government cannot afford
to pay for power expansion and rehabilitation. The system would not be able to satisfy demand and
would deteriorate. Although this risk is present, great care has been taken to develop and strengthen
local ownership of the process. The local authorities have had the leading role in the formulation of
the reform program, which ensured that social and political constraints were given particular
consideration. The authorities decided that the program's emphasis would be on creating an adequate
legal and regulatory framework, and on putting JIRAMA on a commercial footing. With this
approach, there will be a transitional period, estimated at three to five years, before substantial private
investment in power infrastructure can realistically be expected.
E. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY ANALYSIS
6.19      Both JIRAMA and MEM have had experience in the implementation ot projects of this
magnitude and complexity (involving several donors), acquired primarily through the implementation
of the Energy I Project (Cr. 1787-MAG). Both, but particularly JIRAMA, have well trained and
motivated staff. All these factors have been taken into account in the design and implementation
arrangements of the project. The key institutional risk is a drastic change in personnel such that all
the training and experience accumulated are lost. If this were to happen, it would hamper the ability



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                         35
of the institutions involved in carrying out the project and for the benefits to materialize in a timely
fashion. This has been taken into account in the sensitivity analysis, by lowering the level of
expected benefits (see cost-benefit analysis above).
F. POVERTY ANALYSIS
6.20      The inadequacy of the electric power infrastructure has been identified in the CAS as one
of the constraints to development in Madagascar. This project would not only help removing that
constraint but would also help the Government in moving away from public involvement in the
energy sector and redirecting public expenditures to priority social sectors. The project has an
indirect impact on poverty alleviation through its effect on the overall rate and pattern of economic
growth by developing off-farm opportunities. No country has significantly reduced poverty without
considerable and sustained growth. Setting the conditions of such growth is thus essential to reducing
poverty in Madagascar. It has been observed 8/that a source of income within the household that is
salaried has a strong inverse relationship to household poverty. In Madagascar, however, only 2.7%
of the population are in non-agricultural, wage-earning jobs. In addition, to raising productivity and
income to farmers, the development of off-farm productive opportunities, including salaried
employment to absorb the expanding labor force, is essential. Madagascar's labor force is expected
to grow by approximately 220,000 people each year between 1995 and year 2000, or more than half
the total number of existing non-agricultural jobs. The Government needs to provide incentives for
private sector investment to absorb much of this labor in labor-intensive works. Most investments in
the Free Trade Zones (FTZ) are in labor-intensive sectors such as garment, food-processing, and
jewelry industries, which require mostly unskilled labor and also employ a substantial number of
women. Thus providing the necessary infrastructure to remove the constraints for the expansion of
labor-intensive industries would increase the potential for job creation and the reduction of poverty.
6.21      The woodfuel component and the electrification component which would focus on peri-
urban and dynamic rural areas, have an impact on poverty alleviation. It is expected that the
implementation of the woodfuel component will reduce woodfuel and charcoal consumption and lessen
the energy burden of the poor. The electrification program will target lower income groups, helping
them to finance the up-front costs, such as house wiring and connection fees. In order for the
program to benefit a maximum number of people, the average cost per connection will be minimized
by more intensive utilization of existing infrastructure, and by applying low-cost design standards.
For remote poorer areas, solutions based on photo-voltaics or wind will be tested.
G. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
6.22      The proposed project has been assigned environmental category B, mainly because of the
new transmission facilities -- lines and substations - that JIRAMA will build. The rest of the
infrastructure-related works are environment-neutral as they involve electromechanical work inside
existing power-houses, or reinforcement/construction of distribution lines in existing rights-of-way,
along streets in urban areas. A consultant financed by IDA carried out an environmental analysis for
the transmission components (para. 4.21) and JIRAMA has been following, in the topography and
engineering phases, the mitigation plan she recommended. The project will benefit the environment,
as substitution of hydro for thermal generation will reduce CO2 emissions and environmental
8/        Madagascar: Poverty Assessment (World Bank, March 23, 1995).



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                       36
pollution, and the woodfuels components will reduce deforestation and will also lessen CO2 emissions
(para 4.21). However, no attempt was made to quantify these environmental benefits in monetary
terms, and they have not been included in rate-of-return calculations.
H. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
6.23      Selective performance indicators to be monitored during project implementation have been
agreed during negotiations and were included in the minutes of negotiations. The indicators of
achievement of project objectives are given in Annex 4.6.
I. OVERALL ASSESSMENT
6.24      On balance, the project is expected to properly address the concerns of growth and
alleviation of poverty, environmental protection and economic efficiency.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached Durin2 Neaotiations
7.1       During negotiations, IDA reached agreements with the Government of Madagascar and
with JIRAMA on: (a) onlending and cofinancing; (b) power subsector reform; (c) JIRAMA's financial
performance; (d) electricity tariff policy; and (e) project management and supervision.
7.2       On-lending and Cofinancing. The Government will onlend to JIRAMA US$31.8 million
of the credit's proceeds at an adjustable interest rate equal to the London Interbank Rate (LIBOR) plus
0.9 of one percentage point per annum, for a period of 25 years, including a five-year grace period,
with JIRAMA bearing the foreign exchange risk. The Government will arrange cofinancing with EIB
and ABEDA. JIRAMA will arrange cofinancing from CFD.
7.3       Power Subsector Reform. The Government will implement the power sector reform
program, including setting up a regulatory agency not later than September 30, 1996, and launching
an electricity tariffs' study not later than March 31, 1997, as well as restructuring JIRAMA and
converting it into a joint stock company. The Government will submit to IDA for approval, not later
than January 30, 1997, its proposal for the latter restructuring, and proceed thereafter to its
implementation (para. 5.12).
7.4      JIRAMA's Financial Performance. JIRAMA agreed to implement the following measures
with effect from January 1, 1996: (a) the separation of bank accounts and cash management functions
of JIRAMA's power and water operations; (b) the provision of FMG 15 billion as liquid working
capital for the water section; (c) a limitation on the use of surplus funds of the power section; and (d)
the maintenance of its debt service to the Government on a current basis. (All these measures are
actual). Furthermore the Government and JIRAMA agreed to an action plan designed to enable
JIRAMA to attain a debt to equity ratio of not more than 70/30 by December 31, 1996 (para 5.11).



Madagascar: Energy Sector Development Project                                         37
7.5       JIRAMA also agreed to: (a) generate from internal sources, as from January 1, 1996, not
less than 30 percent of the average annual capital expenditures incurred or expected to be incurred
during the previous, current and succeeding fiscal years (para. 5.13); (b) submit for IDA's approval a
financing plan for any capital expenditure additional to the agreed investment program which exceeds
US$2 million equivalent; and (c) not incur any debt other than that agreed for the proposed program
of investments unless a reasonable fcrecast of net revenues and expenditures shows that the projected
internal cash generation is at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirement on all debt
(para. 5.15).
7.6       Electricity Tariff Policy. The Government agreed to maintain the present tariff policy,
defined in decree No 7800-92, until the new legal and regulatory framework is in place and the
regulatory commission takes over the responsibility for setting tariffs. JIRAMA will therefore be able
to continue adjusting electricity tariffs automatically, by applying indexation formulas (para. 5.14).
A plan was agreed to give a permanent solution to the problem of public-sector arrears. The plan
includes: (a) the estabiishment, from January 1, 1996, of new, simplified procedures for payment by
the Government and its agencies of electricity bills (actual); and (b) the adoption of measures by
JIRAMA to ensure that all municipalities impose surcharges to the electricity bills of all consumers to
cover public consumption of electricity, as allowed by Ordinance 74-002, not later than December 31,
1996.
7.7       Proiect Management and Supervision. Both JIRAMA and the Directorate of Energy
confirmed their existing arrangements for project implementation. Consultants will provide any
additional support, if necessary (para. 4.1 1). Both DE and JIRAMA will have qualified, independent
auditors, satisfactory to IDA, audit records and accounts for the proposed project, including: the
Project Accounts; the Special Accounts, and the Statements of Expenditures. For each fiscal year,
DE and JIRAMA will furnish IDA with a certified copy of the audit report within six months after
the end of each successive fiscal year (para. 4.19). There will be a joint annual review of the project,
including a mid-term review by December 1997, with the participation of the Directorate of Energy,
JIRAMA, and the cofinanciers (para. 4.22).
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.8      (a) Execution by the Government and JIRAMA of a subsidiary loan agreement (para.
4.10); (b) issuance by MEM of the request for proposals for the restructuring of JIRAMA (para. 4.8)
(actual); (c) appointment of key implementation staff by DE and JIRAMA (para. 4.11); and (d)
submission by MEM and JIRAMA, for IDA review, of bidding documents corresponding to all
contracts to be awarded during the first year of implementation of the project (para. 4.17).
Condition of Disbursement for the Electrification Promram
7.9       Disbursements for the electrification program's works and equipment shall take place only
following the establishment of a regulatory agency for the power subsector (para. 4.4).
Recommendation
7.10      Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of
SDR 31.8 million (US$46 million equivalent) to the Republic of Madagascar on standard terms, with
maturity of 40 years, including 10 years of grace.



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENERGY BALANCE, YEAR 199
PrimaEry Er_Enwrgy
Urle tatwW
Primary                                                                           Seco5 dary  Convwslon
Cruds oil    Coal     Hydro   Woodfusls    Bp          TobIs   Eltricty    LPG       Gasolirn  Kerosne   Ga Oil   Fuel Oil  Charcoal   Totrs          loss"
Gro4s Supl                                                                                                                                                                                  _
Production                                               41.1     3,402.0       74.3   3,517.4                                                                                          3,517.4
Imports                            419.0        7.7                                      426.7                            6.1       1.0      136.0                           143.1       569.8
Exports                                                                                    0.0                                                          129.2                129.2       129.2
Stocl; IrOaeas_                                                                            0.0                  0.4       2.1       0.3        8.7        6.6                 18.1        18.1
Total Gross Supply                 419.0        7.7      41.1      3,402.0      74.3   3,944.1        0.0      -0.4       4.0       0.7      127.3    -135.8        0.0       -4.2      3,939.9
ConvemiQn
Petroleum Refining                 408.0                                                 408.0                  4.7      62.0      60.8       87.2      160.1                374.8        33.2
Power generabon, JIRAMA                                  41.0                             41.0      41.7                                     -26.1      -10.2                  5.4        35.6
Poaer generabon, autoproducers                            0.1                   10.8      10.9       5.6                                     -10.0                            -4.4        15.3    Li
Charcoal Producbon                                                 1,442.7              1,442.7                                                                   248.8      248.8      1,193.9    c
Conversion Totals                  408.0        0.0      41.1      1,442.7      10,8   1,902.6       47.3       4.7      62.0      60.8       51.1      149.9     248.8      624.6      1,278.0
Own uscv Loss                       10.8                                                  10.8        6.2                                                                      6.2         17.0
Consumptofn by Setor
Industry, Mining, Consbuction                   7.7                 231.6       63.5     302.8       21.8       0.2                 4.1       32.7       12.2       6.0       77.0        379.8
Transport                                                                                  0.0                            86.0     20.8      140.9        1.9                729.6        229.6
Agricutture, Fishing                                                                       0.0                                                 4.3                             4.3          4.3
Households                                                         1,685.4              1,685.4       9.8       3.6                36.6                           192.8      242.8      1,928.2
Commerce & Othr Servmces                                             42.4                 42.4        9.6       0.5                            0.5                 50.0       60.6        103.0
ToTal Consumpbon                     0.0        7.7        0.0     1,959.4      63.5   2,030.6       41.2        4.3      66.0     61.5      178.4       14.1     248.8      614.3      2,644.9
Source: MEM
0*
X-~ 



- 39 -
Annex 1.2
Page 1 of 1
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDA ENERGY PROJECT EXPERIENCE IN MADAGASCAR AND LESSONS LEARNED
Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project (Credit 817-MAG), approved in 1978 for a credit of
US$43 million. The project included a dam, a 58-MW plant, and a 138-kV line to Antananarivo.
Andekaleka was predicated on the need for electric power to supply an ambitious state
industrialization program which subsequently failed, leaving the country with excess generation
capacity. The main lesson learned is the need for a cautious approach to demand projections in the
case of large, capital intensive, indivisible investments.
Petroleum Exploration Project (Credit 1016-MAG), approved in 1980 for a credit of
US$12.5 million, and the Tsmiroro Heavy Oil Exploration Project (Credit 1298-MAG), approved
in 1982 for a credit of US$11.5 million. These two projects were supply re:sponses to the oil crises
of the 1970s and focused on exploring domestic petroleum to reduce dependence on high-cost foreign
oil. The Petroleum Exploration Project helped the Government establish the legal and fiscal
framework for petroleum exploration promotion and assemble the requisite ge.1ogical data. As a
result, four major oil companies (Agip, Amoco, Occidental and Mobil) signed exploration and
production contracts, investing a total of US$300 million. The Tsmiroro Heavy Oil exploration
project was terminated because the initial results indicated that the project was not ecorioinically
attractive and the Government used the remaining funds for another exploration promotion campaign.
Lesson learned: a relatively small investment can attract a considerable amount of risk capital from
the international petroleum industry, which may help find commercial oil deposits, and provides the
country with important geological information to help manage its exploration effort.
Madagascar Energy Assessment, prepared by the UNDP/World Bank Joint Energy
Sector Assistance Program (Report No. 5700-MAG, January 1987). The report of the Assessment
identified the following major energy sector issues: (a) the increasing shortage of woodfuels ior
cooking; (b) the need for rehabilitation of electricity generation, transmission and distribution
systems; (c) need for improvements in energy policy planning and investment; and (d) the need for
better evaluation of domestic energy resource potential.
Energy I Project (Credit 1787-MAG), approved in 1987 for a credit of US$25 million.
This project addressed needs across various energy subsectors in response to the issues identified in
the Energy Assessment and financed priority investments for: detailed identification of power system
rehabilitation needs and initial rehabilitation works; a least-cost master plan for the power sector; a
tariff study; development of more efficient charcoal production techniques; energy audits in the
industrial sector; and technical assistance and training to the Ministry of Energy for energy planning
and household energy development. The project finished in December 1994.
Petroleum Sector Reform Project (Credit No. 2538-MAG), approved in June 1993 for a
credit of US$51.9 million. The objectives of the project are to: open the petroleum subsector to
private participation and create an appropriate framework for a competitive environment; support
investments in basic infrastructure (refinery operation and facilities for transport, handling and storage
of products); and develop an institutional capacity for efficient regulation of the subsector. The credit
was declared effective on September 20, 1994.



- 40 -
Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 4
October 13, 1994
Mr. Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Director
Department 3, Africa Region
World Bank
Dear Sir:
Subject: Sector Policy Statement
The key objectives of the new electric power sector policy adopted by the
Malagasy Government are:
-     Opening of the energy sector to private capital, with the Government taking the
role of regulator and arbiter;
-     An efficient and adequate pricing policy;
-     Promotion of efficiency in energy production and utilization.
To implement this strategy, the Government will execute the following measures:
-     Reform of the legal and regulatory framework of the electric power subsector;
-     The electrification program;
-     Reorganization of JIRAMA;
-     JIRAMA's investment program;
-     An energy efficiency program;
-     Mitigation of environmental impacts;
-     Resolution of the arrears problem;
-     Continuation, during the transition period, of the current tariff policy.
It is my conviction that the energy sector reform program, as detailed in the
attached Policy Statement, as well as the energy sector project we have proposed to you, will
benefit from World Bank financial and technical support.
Yours truly,
Francisque Ravony
Prime Minister



- 41 -
Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 4
SECTOR POLICY STATEMENT
1.     SITUATION AND KEY PROBLEMS OF THE SUBSECTORS
a.    Woodfuels subsector
Since 1920, 75 percent of the country's forests has disappeared. Indeed, beyond the
destruction caused by slash-and-bum agriculture and bush fires, wood and its derivatives are used
by 80 percent of the Malagasy population for cooking. The inefficiency of the usual combustion
methods, and of the conversion from wood to charcoal only widen the gap between woodfuels
demand and supply. In certain regions, the scale on which wood is being consumed will have a
significant impact unless immediate measures are taken to economize and conserve this energy
source.
b.    Electric power subsector
Activities in this subsector concem the generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity. Demand for electric power is still relatively low, reflecting Madagascar's low
population density and the physical characteristics of its territory. The current electrification rate
is 6.6 percent. Energy is produced by power stations with a combined installed capacity of 219
MW, of which 48 percent corresponds to 12 hydro plants, and 52 percent to 54 thermal stations.
Despite Madagascar's abundance of hydroelectric resources, only a minimum percentage is being
exploited. Existing power facilities are old and no longer capable of meeting consumer
requirements (quality of service, etc.). Moreover, there is no interconnection at the country level.
Some regions possess surplus capacity while supply is insufficient in others.
An additional, major problem in this subsector is the magnitude of the public sector's
arrears with JIRAMA, the power company. This has significant consequences for the company's
management performance.
c.    Energy losses
High losses occur in many energy processes, industrial and other. Steps have already
been taken, chiefly as part of the Energy I Project, to bring this situation under control and to
improve it. High levels of losses have also been detected in the transmission and distribution of
electricity.
d.    Institutional and legal framework
For commercial energies, the institutional framework is characterized by almost total
state-domination, both in the petroleum and electricity subsectors. Indeed, under the terms of
Decree 74-002 of February 4, 1974, which establishes the basic policy orientations for the water
and electricity subsectors in Madagascar, the state has the exclusive right to carry out all
operations relating to generation, transmission and public distribution of electricity. All such
activities are to be carried out under the direct supervision of the Government, exercised through
the Ministry of Energy and Mines. The Government has delegated part of its exclusive rights in
this field to JIRAMA, a company operating in the national interest.



- 42 -
Annex 2.1
Page 3 of 4
e.    Pricing policy
Petroleum product prices were recently liberalized and are set according to international
prices and the exchange rate. Electricity tariffs are based on marginal costs and are subject to
automatic indexation under the terms of Decree No. 7800/92 of December 31, 1992.
2.     KEY POLICY OBJECTIVE
Given the strategic importance of energy, the Government's main policy objective in the
sector is to satisfy domestic demand while promoting the sector's economic and management
efficiency, and safeguarding the environment. This policy will be implemented by:
-     Opening the energy sector to private capital, with the Government taking the role
of regulator and arbiter;
-     An efficient and adequate pricing policy;
-     Promotion of efficiency in energy production and utilization.
3.     KEY MEDIUM-TERM MEASURES
The measures the Government proposes to implement, within the context of a new
economic policy oriented toward liberalization, aim to reform the legal and regulatory framework
governing the electricity subsector; to reinforce and extend power infrastructjre throughout the
country, facilitating at the same time the population's access to electricity; ;, modernize the public
enterprise, JIRAMA; and to improve efficiency in the production and uti!hzation of energy,
simultaneously protecting the environment.
a.    Reform of the legal and regulatory framework
The Government will propose to the National Assembly an Electricity i-aw, that will
govern activities in the subsector. This law will open the subsector to private acoromic agents,
and will establish clear and transparent rules applicable to all enterprises operating ;r the
subsector. The Government will see to it that the law is strictly observed. The law makes
provision for the establishment of an independent regulatory agency that will be responsible for
setting electricity tariffs in accordance with criteria also prescribed in the law. During the
transitional period, the Government will continue applying its current policy on electricity prices.
b.    Electrification program and promotion of electricity use
The electrification program will be designed in accordance with clearly defined and fuily
justified socioeconomic criteria and methods. Its implementation will include:
-     the formulation of an electrification master plan; and,
-     the execution of the program set out in the master plan, applying low-cost
distribution techniques.
In the interest of promoting the rational use of the electricity produced, the project is to
include measures to facilitate the financing of house wiring and connection costs.



- 43 -
Annex 2.1
Page 4 of 4
c.    JIRAMA and the new institutional arrangements
JIRAMA will have to be reorganized to adapt it to the new rules that will govern the
subsector, beginning with:
-     a redefinition of the functions and composition of its board of directors;
-     a financial rehabilitation and restructuring;
-     establishment of separate accounting systems for its power and water operations,
and
-     a revision of JIRAMA's statute to convert it into a joint-stock company.
d.    Provisions affecting JIRAMA's investment program
JIRAMA's investment program calls for the rehabilitation of various hydro and thermal
power stations, the construction of the Namorona-Manakara-Mananjary transmission lines, the
construction of phase 2 of the master plan for Antananarivo's distribution, reinforcement and
extension of distribution networks in other urban centers, connection works, and loss reduction
measures. JIRAMA will be provided with a legal and institutional framework enabling it to
finance its investment program and to operate or to install facilities under satisfactory conditions,
particularly giving it the capacity to contract loans and meet its debt service commitments.
e.    Energy efficiency program
The following actions are proposed to implement this program:
-     Establishment of a national energy efficiency group;
-     Studies for, and drafting of, laws and regulations, and definition of supporting
measures;
-     Creation and start-up of an operational entity in charge of energy efficiency. Its
responsibilities will be: to serve as the national energy monitoring body; to
develop means of rationalizing fuelwood consumption; to promote use of local
energy resources, energy substitution. and rational energy use in all economic and
social spheres (industrial, residential, service, transport, agricultural, etc.).
f.    Mitigation of environmental impact
In order to reduce the ecological impacts of the utilization of energy resources, it will be
necessary to expand the activities initiated under the Energy I Project, set up a pilot woodfuels
supply program in the Mahajanga region, and continue with the work of the Domestic Energy
Planning Unit - all in strict compliance with the environmental regulations in force.
g.    Resolution of arrears problems
The Government will propose a schedule for the settlement of payment arrears. In
addition, preventive measures are to be taken to ensure that government departments and agencies
pay regularly and to avoid any reconstitution of arrears.
c:\GRAY\ANNEX-2. 1\1 1/23/94\10\19\95



- 44 -
MADAGASCAR                                            Anaex 3.1
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                          Page 1 oL 2
JIRAMA's SALES AND NUMBER OF CONSUMERS 1989-1994
A.      SALES (MWh)
1989        1990          1991          1992          1993          1994
Total JIRAMA
Medium Voltage                 228846        238389        221 060       227691        242858        235 179
Industry& Comm.             176459        187 148       172 157       178468        191 296       188 139
Public Services              23 340        22 378        20 017        19915         22 287        21 270
Water Pumping                29 047        28 863        28 886        29 308        29 275        25 770
Low Voltage                    148 979       162 570       171 983       182 273       195 306       201 761
Domestic                    119506        129804        138245        145322        156787        162389
Public Lighting                5 892        6 771         6 668         7 343         6 975         6 633
Industry&Comm.               23581         25995         27070         29608         31 544        32739
Total Medium & Low Voltage    377 825        400 959       393 043       409 964       438 164       436 940
Antananarivo Interc. Network
Medium Voltage                 145779        154 122       142599        149067        162063        154767
Industry & Comm.            107 678       115 686       106 123       IH1 817       123 123       120 432
Public Services              16 318        16 295        14 148        14 355        16 295        15 534
Water Pumping                21 783        22 141        22 328        22 895        22 645        18 801
Low Voltage                     92 035       100 880       107 184       112 776       122 371       126 132
Domestic                     76 193        82910         88622         92578        101 315       105010
Public Lighting               2 952         3 605         3 841         4 330         3 881         3 874
Industry&Comm.               12890         14365         14721         15868         17 175        17248
Total Medium & Low Voltage    237 814        255 002       249 783      261 843       284 434       280 899
Other Center
Medium Voltage                  83 067        84 267        78 461        78 624        80 795       80 412
Industry & Comm.             68 781        71 462        66 034        66 651        68 173        67 707
Public Services               7 022         6 083         5 869         5 560         5 992         5 736
Water Pumping                 7 264         6 722         6 558         6 413         6 630         6 969
Low Voltage                     56 944        61 690       64 799        69 497        72 935        75 629
Domestic                     43313         46894         49623         52744         55472         57381
Public Lighting               2 940         3 166         2 827         3 013         3 093         2 757
Industry & Comrn..           10 691        11 630        12 349        13 740        14 370        15 491
Total Medium & Low             140 011       145 957       143 260       138 121      153 730       156 041
Source: JIRAMA



- 45 -
MADAGASCAR                                              Annex 3.1
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                           Page 2 of 2
JIRAMA's SALES AND NUMBER OF CONSUMERS 1989-1994
B.    NUMBER OF CONSUMERS
1989         1990           1991          1992           1993          1994
Total JIRAMA
Medium Voltage                      677           679           693           680            678           685
Industry & Comm.                 459           472           487           482            481           494
Public Services                  199           188           188            181           178           172
Water Pumping                     19            19            18             17            19             19
LowVoltage                      156384        159940        166127        170160         177939        187316
Domestic                     150568        153921        160018         163943        171 541       180822
Public Lighting                  665           682           673           685            693           693
Industry & Comm.               5 151         5 337         5 436          5 532         5 705          5 801
Total Medium & Low              157 061       160 619       166 820        170 840       178 617       188 001
Voltage
Antananarivo Intercon.
Network
Medium Voltage                      435           435           450           446            454           4h6
Industry&Comm.                   311           319           335           334            343           353
Public Services                  121           113           112            110           109           108
Water Pumping                      3             3             3              2             2             2
Low Voltage                      99 797       101 763       105 785       106 6000       10 '57        116 541
Domestic                      96 337        98 225       102 227        103 089       107 011       112 943
Public Lighting                  352           369           354           345            342           342
Industry & Comm.               3 108         3 169         3 204         3 1V.6         3 204         3 256
Total Medium & Low              100 232       102 198       106 235       107 04b        111 011       117 804
Voltage
Other Cente
Medium Voltage                      242           244           243           234            224           222
Industry & Comm.                 148           153           152           148            138           139
Public Services                   78            75            76            71             69            66
Water Pumping                     16            16            15             15            17            17
Low Voltage                      56 587        58 177        60 342        63 560         67 382        70 775
Domestic                      54 231        55 696        57 791        60 854         64 530        67 879
Public Lighting                  313           313           319           340            351           351
Industry & Comm.               2 043         2 168         2 232         2 366          2 501         2 545
Total Medium & Low               56 829        58 421        60 585        63 794         67 606        70 S97
Voltage
Source: IIRAMA



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEMAND FORECAST: 1995 -2000
(GWh)
1992        1993        1994        1995        1996         1997        1998        1999        2000 Growh Rate (%)
Actual      Actual      Actual
ANTANANARIVO
Sales                  261.8       284.4       280.9        282.1        294        305.3       319.1       335.7         359            4.94
Gross Generation       326.7       348.1       360.7         360        370.4       382.2         397        414.8       438.2           4.01
TOAMASINA
Sales                   22.3        24.2        24.4          25         25.8        27.1        28.5         30.5        32.8           5.5S
Gross Generation        30.2        31.7         30.2        30.2        31.1        32.5        34.2          36         39.4           5.46
MAHAJANGA
Sales                   59.2        60.6        60.8         62.1        63.7        66.7          68         70.7         73            3.29
Gross Generation        69.2        69.3         69.5        70.2        71.7        73.6         75.9        78.5          80           2.65
FIANARANTSOA
Sales                    8.1         8.9         9.4         11.3        11.7         14.9        15.6        16.4        17.3           8.89
Gross Generation        10.9         12.1         12         12.9          13         16.5        17.7        18.8        20.7           9.92
NOSY BE
Sales                    9.8         10.2         8.9         9.9        10.5         11.2        11.9        12.2        12.6           4.94
GrossGeneration         11.1        11.8         10.1        10.9        11.5         12.2        12.9        13.2        13.7           4.68
ANTSIRANANA
Sales                   13.1        12.7         13.8        14.1        14.5          15         15.8        16.6        17.7           4.65
Gross Generation        15.2         15.2         16         16.9        16.6         17.2         18         18.9        20.1           3.53
TOLIARY
Sales                    8.8         9.9          9.6        10.1        10.4          10         11.3        11.6        12.5           4.36
GrossGeneration         10.6          10         11.1        11.7          12         12.4        13.9        13.5        14.9           4.95
SUBTOTAL
Sales                  383.1       410.9       407.8        414.6       430.6       450.2        470.2       493.7       524.9           4.83
Gross Generation       473.9       498.2        509.6       512.8       526.3       546.6        569.6       593.7         627           4.10
OTHER CENTERS
Sales                   26.9        28.3         29.3        29.6        31.4        31.8         33.5        35.3        37.8           5.01
Gross Generation        32.4        34.4         36.6        36.7        39.1        39.3         41.4         44         45.5           4.39
TOTAL JIRAMA                                                                                                                                          o  a
Sales                   410        439.2       437.1        444.2         462         482        503.7        529        562.7           4.84      ,_ X
Gross Generation       506.3       532.6        546.2       549.5       565.4       585.9         611        637.7       672.5           4.12      o
Source: JIRAMA



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FIANARANTSOA INTERCONNECTED NETWORK
DEMAND FORECAST 1995-2000
1993          1994           1995           1996          1997           1998           1999          2000 Growth Rate(%)
FIANARANTSOA                                 Actual         Actual
Sales (GWh)                                  8.9           9.4           11.3           11.7           14.9           15.6          16.4           17.3            S.89
Gross Generation (GWh)                      12.1            12           12.9             13           16.5           17.7          18.8           20.7            9.92
Peak Demand (MW)                            3.08           3.3           3.39           3.49           3.55          3.58           3.76           3.97            3.21
MANAKARA
Sales (GWh)                                 1.51           1.52            1.6          1.73           1.81           1.93          2.16           2.24            6.96
GrossGeneration(GWh)                        1.07          2.02           2.12           2.17           2.24          2.31           2.48           2.66            4.64
Peak Demand (MW)                            0.44          0.48           0.51           0.52           0.53          0.55           0.59           0.63            4.32
MANANJARY
Sales (GWh)                                 0.95          0.92           0.96           1.01           1.07           1.13          1.21           1.29            6.09          1
GmosGOeneration(GWh)                        1.17           1.23          1.28           1.29           1.31           1.34          1.43           1.52            3.50
Peak Demand (MW)                            0.35          0.35           0.37           0.38           0.38          0.39           0.42           0.44            3.53          1
TOTAL
Sales (GWh)                                11.36         11.84          13.86          14.44          17.78         18.66          19.77          20.83            8.49
Gross Generation (GWh)                     14.34         15.25            16.3         16.46          20.05         21.35          22.71          24.88            8.83
PeakDemand((MW)                             3.87          4.13           4.27           4.39           4.46          4.52           4.77           5.04            3.37
Source: JIRAMA
e m
04
hN,



- 48 -
Annex 3.3
Page 1 of I
MADAGASCAR
E~NERGY SEFCTOR DEVELOPMIENT PROJEFCT
Electricity Tnarffs and ILong Run Mgrgwinal Costs.
August 1995 Tariffs Compared with Long Run Marginal Costs
% of Total      LRMC          Present     Ratio Tariff to
Consumption    FMG/kWh          Tariff       LRMC (%)
FMG/kWh
Zone 1:                      71.0           429           442            103
High Voltage                               303           325           107.3
Medium Voltage                             400           400            100
Low Voltage                                473           500           105.7
Zone 2:                      16.7           624           621            99.5
Medium Voltage                             568           605           106.5
Low Voltage                                819           677            82.7
Zone 3:                      12.3           922           845            92
Medium Voltage                             799           890           111.4
Low Voltage                               969            828           85.4
Total JIRAMA                100.0           522           522           100.0
Source: JIRAMA.
Movement towards LRMC in Zones 2 and 3
Tariff/LRMC (July 1993) (%)    TarifflLRMC (August
1995) (%)
Zone 2:                                 83.3                       99.5
Medium Voltage                       85.2                       106.5
Low Voltage                          83.7                       82.7
Zone 3:                                 73.8                       91.6
Medium Voltage                       94.0                       1 i 1.4
Low Voltage                          67.1                       35.4
Source; JIRAMA



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JIRAMA'S INSTALLED GENERATING CAPACITY, 1994
1. Hydropower Plats
No. of   Unit    Commissioning      Installed    Availability    Dependable    Firm          Secondary   Average
plant                   Units  Capacity       date          Capacity                   Capacity       Energy        Energy        Energy
(kW)                         (kW)          (%)          (kW)         (GWh)         (GWh)         (GWb)
1. Hydropower plants
A. Antananarivo Interconnected System
Antelomits               6      1360      1930-53              8160           94         7670.4           33            16         49
1      640        1918                 640            0             0
Mandraka                 4      6000      1956-72             24000           94         22560            53            46         99
Manandona                2       480        1930                960           94          902.4          9.8            1.9      11.7
1      640        1960                 640           94          601.6
Andekaleks               2     29000        1982              58000           94          54520          451            30        481
Subtotal                                                         92400                     86254.4        546.8          93.9      640.7
B. Toammuina
Volobe                   3      1520      1931-55              4560           94         4286.4         56.7                     56.7
1     2200        1971                2200           94          2068
Vatomandry               1        90        1953                 90           94           84.6         1.45           0.08      1.53
2        40        1953                 80           50            40
Subtotal                                                          6930                       6479         58.15          0.08      58.23
C. Fimnarantson
Namorona                 2      2800        1980               5600           94           5264         38.5             6       44.5
Manandray                2       140        1932                280           94          263.2          2.5            0.9       3.4
1       170       193                  170           94          159.8
Subtotal                                                          6050                       5687            41           6.9       47.9
D. Other Hydropower Plsnts
Ankazobe                 1        50        1959                 50           94             47          0.42             0       0.42
Tsiazompaniry            1        50        1956                 50           94             47           0.5            0         0.5
Ampefy                   1        30        1987                 30           94           28.2          0.28            0        0.28
Subtotal                                                           130                       122.2          1.2             0        1.2
Total Hydro                                                     105510                     98542.6       647.15         100.88    748.03      *
_ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JIRAMA'S INSTALLED GENERATING CAPACITY, 1994
2. Thermal Plants
No of       Unit                                        Installed                      Dependable
Plant                       Fuel        Units     Capacity         Commission.  Retirement       Capacity      Availability    Capacity
(kWh)            Date           Date          (kW)            (%)           (kW)
A. Antananarivo Interconnected System
Ambohimanambola          GO+F           3              6000      1972-81         2011              18000            80           14400
Antsirabe                GO             2              1200      1964-67         1999               2400            80            1920
GO             1              1800       1968          2001                1800             0              0
GO+F           1              7000       1982          2007                7000            80           5600
Mandroseza               GO             1               700       1949             -                 700            80             560
GO            2               1160      1950-51          -                 2320            80           1856
GO             1               960       1955            -                  960            80            768
Subtotal                                                                                              33180                        25104
B. Mahajanga                GO+F           1              8000       1979           2002               8000            80           6400
GO+F           1              5500       1973            -                 5500            80           4400
GO+F           1              4000       1975            -                 4000            80           3200
GO            3               1800     1969-70           -                 5400            80           4320
GO             1               830       1960            -                  b30             0               0
GO             1              1400       1971            -                 1400            80           1120
Ln'
Subtotal                                                                                              25130                         19440                         o
C. Toamasina                GO+F           2              8000       1983           2011              16000            80           12800
GO             1              1400       1973           2004               1400            80           1120
Subtotal                                                                                              17400                         13920
D. Toliary                  GO             1               500       1980           2004                500            80             400
GO             2               500      1970-79         2004               1000            80            800
GO+F           1              4500       1981           2001               4500            80           3600
GO+F           1              3300       1981           1999               3300             0               0
Subtotal                                                                                               9300                          4800
E.Antsiranana               GO             2              1600      1971-74         2005               3200            80            2560
GO             1               500       1955           1994                500             0               0
GO             1               500       1955           1994                500            80            400
Subtotal                                                                                               4200                          2960
E. Nosy Be                  GO             1               500       1980           2004                500            80             400
GO            3                500      1958-92      1994-2007             !500            80            1200
GO             I               500       1959           1994                500             0               0
GO             I               150       1953           1992                150             0               0               X
GO             I               180       1969           1995                180            80             144              N 
GO            2                375      1955-86         1994                750            80             600 C               w
Subtotal                                                                                               3580                          2344
F. Other Thermal Plants     GO           178             10-450     1950-92                           17989            80         14391.2
Total Thermal                                                                                        110779                       82959.2
Source: JIRAMA



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JIRAMA'S INVESTMENT PROGRAM (1996-2001) 1/
(Thousand US dollars)
ige                        1997                      iu                         1W9i                       20o0                       2001                        Told
kaos  Foar       ToWl    Local  Foeign    Told    Local  Forein        Told   Local  F a          Totl    Local  For         Totl    Locd   Forn        Tobl    LocSd  Foreig       Tatl
Genaron  mid Tlrrimtidn
Hydr      dll                    532.7  2400.1   2932.6  1567.8  5192.8  6780.6  1805.5    6510   8115.5    1782   7183.9  0945.9   1229.6  5450.5  6680.1    823.1    26M    3429.1   7520.7  29343.3    36664
Thenid RIub.&RIplC               257.3   162.3   419.6  1567.8  2717.8  4285.6  1518.7  3701.5   5220.2   1143.5  1177.1   2320.8    330.4   990.4  1320.8                8.9     55.4    64.3  4826.6  8604.5   13831.1
Tnuwum onLkh                     322.8   113.6   436.4   849.9    792.3  1642.2   710.7  3005.4  3716.1    711.4   568.6    1280              96.2     831    185.3    141.5       7.8   149.1   2832.5  4576.6    7409.1
Subtbors                          14.1     98.1    110.2     31.4   504.6      536    363.4  3620.5  3983.9   225.6   732.5   958.1           95.6   207.4      303       6.4        -      6.4   736.5  5161.1    5697.6
Stbld                           1126.9  2772.1    36w    4016.9  9207.5  13224.4  4198.3  16837.4  21035.7  3842.5  9662.1  13504.6   1751.8  6737.4  8489.2    979.9    2669   3848.9  15916.3  47885.5   63801.8
DOubAon                           1216.7  2735.6  3964.3  2342.9   6185.5  S A4    3543   9059.7  12802.7  2623.7  7587.3   10211   3500.3  7408.4  10908.7   1710.1   4166.3  5876.4  14938.7  37122.8   52061.5  1
Un
h*1nifloTemoldog                  250   1S20.9  1770.9    154.8   480.1    634.9   162.3   124.7          287      10.8    38.7    49.5          -        -        -        -                 -   577.9  2164.4    2742.3  1
Teluanmicdouu                        5     10.7    15.7       1.9     30.5    32A       32.4    173A    206.6    46.9       10.6     57.5                8-        -        -        -        -      6.2    225.2     311.4
Lob.&SWpe Tnadm                   53A    148.3   201.7       158    752.5   910.5   241.9  1259.4   1501.3         812    204.4    285.6      582         -    58.2      30.4        -    30.4   823.1   2354.6    2987.7
Subt                             305.4  1679.9  196.3    314.7   1263.1   15771    438.6   1557.5   1994.1    138.9   253.7   302.6           582         -    58.2      30.4        -    30.4  1287.2   4754.2   6041.4
- -
Shain                             240    8o0       1040       90       300     390                                                                        -        -        -        -        -    330      1100       1430
Tra*wl                           305.4   1566.6    1864    340.4   1137.1   1477.5   330.6  1046.2   1376.8    180.2   851.4  1031.8    314.5   523.3   837.8               -        -        -  1471.1   5116.6    8587.7
StbS                             545.4   2356.6    2904    430.4  1437.1   1667.5   330.1  10462   1376.8   180.2   851.4  1031.6   314.5   523.3   837.8                        -            -  1801.1   6216.8    8017.7
rFoS                              3199.4  3646.2  12745.6  7104.9  18073.2  25178.1   8508.5  26500.8  37009.3  8785.3  18354.5  25139.8  5624.8  14689.1  20293.9  2720.4  6635.3   9555.7  33943.3  95979.1  129922.4
1/ Irlnudng dudes no phy*ic conlncede
Sorce: JIRAMA
0Q $
(00
m X
0*
O-h .'



- 52 -
Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 5
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Description
1.    The Energy Sector Development project has four major parts.
Part A, JIRAMA's investment program, includes: rehabilitation and extension of hydro and diesel
plants; rehabilitation of old transmission lines and construction of one transmission extension; the
construction of Phase 2 of the Master Plan for Antananarivo's distribution network; reinforcement and
extension of distribution networks in other large centers; service connections to meet customer demand;
a loss reduction program; provision of equipment and tools for maintenance; capacity building and
systems for management and training; implementation of a plan for information technology; and
feasibility studies for two small hydro projects.
Part B, the Electrification Program, will include: studies and engineering; institution building;
construction of system extensions, and of isolated systems when justified; and operational assistance to
rural systems.
Part C, the Institutional Reform of the Power Subsector, consists of three subcomponents: the
developnment of a new legal frameworks the establishment of a regulatory agency; and the
commercialization and corporatization of JIRAMA.
Finally, Part D, the Energy Efficiency Program, is composed of: a national program for energy
conservation; and a pilot woodfuels program for the Mahajanga region. The following sections
describe these subcomponents in more detail.
A. JIRAMA's Investment Program
2.        Rehabilitation and Extension of Hydro Plants (US$35.8 million). The proposed project will
finance comprehensive rehabilitation works for the power stations of Antelomita I and II (8 MW in
total), Mandraka (24 MW), and Manandona (1.6 MW), all in the Antananarivo interconnected system
as well as for Volobe (6.8 MW) in the Tamatave system. In the rest of the hydro plants, the proposed
project focuses on diverse improvements in electromechanical and control equipment. The Energy I
Project identified hydro plant rehabilitation needs and completed preliminary engineering for the
Mandraka and the Antelomita plants. For Mandraka, the proposed project will replace the turbine
wheels in two of the 6-MW units, and will overhaul the generators and control systems. In the
Antelomita plants, the proposed project will include the rehabilitation of five units, and the replacement
of two others with a single new 3 MW unit. The proposed project will rehabilitate the three existing
units in the Manandona plant and will add one new 2.5 MW unit. In Volobe, the proposed project will
rehabilitate the four existing units and will add a new 2.5 MW unit. The rehabilitation of these plants
will also concern the civil and hydraulic structures, penstocks, auxiliaries, and substation equipment.



- 53 -
Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 5
3.        Rehabilitation and Extension of the Diesel Plants (US$12.4 million). The proposed project
will finance the purchase of 30 new diesel generating sets with unit capacities between 40 and 300 kW,
and one larger unit of 1 MW, for a total of 5.1 MW. JIRAMA will complement these additio.is with a
program to transfer some units from plants with surplus capacity to areas that need capacity increases.
The proposed project also will finance spare parts, auxiliary equipment and expert assistance to carry
out rehabilitation works in 20 of JIRAMA's diesel plants. The plants that require the nrost extensive
works are Mahajanga, Nosy-Be, and Antsiranana.
4.        Namorona-Manakara-Mananjary Transmission Extension (US$3.8 miilion). The proposed
project will finance a transmission extension to link the port cities of Manakara and Mananjary on the
east coast, presently receiving power from local diesel plants, to the hydro powei station of Namorona
(5.6 MW), which is part of the Fianarantsoa interconnected system. Peak d.mand in this system (3
MW) is now only half of current hydroelectric installed capacity (6.1 MW). Mlanakara and Mananjary,
located within 120 km from Namorona, have a combined peak demand of 700 kW. Under the
proposed project, JIRAMA will build a 60-km long, 63-kV line from Namorinoia to the town of
Irondro, where the road bifurcates to go north east to Mananjary and south east to Manakara. At
Irondro, JIRAMA will build a substation to step voltage down to 35 kV. Then, two 35-kV lines, with
respective lengths of 90 and 50 Iam, will link Irondro with Manakara and Manar'jary.
5.        Transmission Line Rehabilitation (US$2.2 million). In the Antananarivo interconnected
system, the proposed project will finance the reconstruction of the 23-km long, 30-kV line between
Moramanga and Perinet, which is old and of insufficient capacity, and the replacement of old wood
structures in the 150-km long, 63-kV line between Antananarivo and Antsirabe. Addi-ionally, in
Fianarantsoa's interconnected system, the proposed project will finance the reconstruction of cne very
old, 15-km long, 20-kV line linking the Manandray hydro power station to the city of Fianarantsoa,
and the replacement of old wood poles in the 25-km long, 20-kV line between the hydro power station
of Namorona and the town of Ifanadiana.
6.        Antananarivo Distribution (US$31.6 million). Under the proposed project, JIRAMA will
implement Phase 2 of the Master Plan for renovation of the Antananarivo distribution system (para.
2.15). These works involve the construction of a new 138-kV, 40-MVA substation (Tana Nord) to the
north of the capital, 20 km of 138-kV line, 110 km of 20-kV lines, and the installation of 60 new
distribution transformers. The proposed project will also finance the rehabilitation and reinforcement
of the existing substations, as well as rehabilitation of parts of the existing 35-kV and 20-kV networks.
Additionally, JIRAMA will extend the pilot electrification project which it built under the Energy I
project, to the west of Antananarivo, incorporating the thermal isolated systems of Tsiroanomandidy,
Miarinarivo and Soavinandriana, with a combined demand of 0.5 MW, and electrifying 17 small
villages along the way by means of single phase branches.
7.        Distribution in Other Centers (US$10.5 million). The proposed project will finance priority
elements of a program to reinforce distribution substations, as well as rehabilitate and extend
distribution networks, in the largest distribution centers other than Antananarivo. These centers are:
Antsirabe, Fianarantsoa, Toamasina, Antsiranana, Nosy-Be, Mahajanga, and Toliary. Consultants have
conducted a study with funding from the World Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF). This study
has defined a development plan for the distribution of these centers in the long term. The consultants
also have identified a series of actions necessary for the short term, and have defined the corresponding
investment program for the next five years. The program covers the following categories of works:
substations, primary networks, secondary networks, and public lighting.



- 54 -
Annex 4.1
Page 3 of 5
8.        Program of Electricity Connections (US$10.6 million). The proposed project will finance
about 30,000 new service connections to take place over four years, to meet connection requests from
new clients in all of JIRAMA's systems.
9.        Tools and Equipment for Maintenance (US$3.3 million). The proposed project will finance
the purchase of tools and maintenance equipment for the regions and for a central workshop in
Antananarivo. This will include 12 specialized trucks for distribution and transmission line work.
10.       Loss Reduction Program (US$0.6 million). The proposed project will finance technical
assistance to help JIRAMA do a systematic investigation of the location and causes of energy losses,
and then to draft and implement a loss reduction program. The proposed project also will finance test
instruments and the software needed for the evaluation necessary to determine the origin of losses.
11.       Management Capacity Building, and Training (US$2.9 million). The proposed project will
finance the preparation of a Master Plan for the management of human resources, including the
ulpdating of the Jobs Manual; the revision of job families and career streams; the revision of the salary
structure and the rules for promotions; the establishment of an incentives system to make it attractive
for qualified personnel to move to JIRAMA's regional centers and remote power stations; and a plan
for the evolution of JIRAMA's manpower both in numbers and in level of qualification, according to
JIRAMA's strategic plans. This component will also finance the development of a training program
aimed at improving operational capacity and methods, as well as equipment and materials for the
Training Center. Some short courses for operation and maintenance personnel are also included.
12.       Information Technology Program (US$2.8 million). The proposed project will finance
hardware, software, and technical assistance, to complete the setting up in JIRAMA of a company-wide
information system (para. 3.16). To ensure that the plan responds to the needs of a restructured
JIRAMA, the same consulting flirm that will do the work for the restructuring of the utility also will
review the existing plan and will eventually modify it as needed (para. 4.21).
13.       Feasibility Studies for Hydro (US$1.3 million) . The proposed project will finance
consulting services to do feasibility studies for two hydro projects: the Ambodiroka project (13 MW),
which would supply the city of Mahajanga; and the Ramena project (10 MW) which would substitute
for thermal generation in the northeast of the country. As earlier noted, JIRAMA began the feasibility
study for Ambodircka under Energy I. The proposed project will provide the US$300,000 necessary to
complete it.
B. Electrification Program (US$7.8 million)
14.       The proposed project will finance an electrification program which will extend electricity
services in the country, selectively, at low cost. Consultants will develop a master plan for this
program which will begin with a country-wide survey to identify demand areas with a high enough
level of economic activity and other infrastructure to make productive use of electricity. Only such
areas will be candidates for classical electrification. For areas of lower demand, the program will look
at new sources such as photovoltaic or wind. As part of the survey, the consultants will identify
possibilities for a more intensive use of existing infrastructure by making new connections from
existing primary lines where they cross non-electrified populated areas, as well as through the extension
of existing networks, particularly for systems with surplus hydro capacity. Peri-urban and dynamic



- 55 -
Annex 4.1
Page 4 of 5
rural areas will be the main focus of the program, which will try to make service more affordable to
the population by adopting low cost design standards; using local materials as much as possible; and
providing credit schemes to finance house-wiring costs and connection fees. The studies in support of
the program will conclude with the detailed design of the systems to be built and the preparation of
bidding documents for related equipment and materials, as well as for works. The initial number of
new consumers to be connected under the program is estimated at 15,000. On the institutional side, the
MEM will create a specialized unit to coordinate and supervise program implementation.
C. Institutional Reform of the Power Sector (US$3.2 million)
15.       The proposed project will provide financial support for the Government of Madagascar's
reform program for the electric power sector. This program will create a new legal and regulatory
framework for the electricity subsector, and restructure JIRAMA. The Government will propose the
adoption of an Electricity Law that will open the electric power sector to private economic agents, and
establish clear rules for sector operation, particularly concerning the setting of tariffs. The proposed
project will support the reform of the legal and regulatory framework by financing consulting services,
training, and equipment, as explained below.
16.       MEM is negotiating a contract with a specialized legal firm to review an existing draft of
the new Electricity Law, and to finalize preparation of the whole set of texts that will define the new
legal and regulatory framework for the electricity subsector. This work will be financed from the PPF.
The draft law will be submitted to the National Assembly in June 1996. The new law will establish an
independent regulatory agency, whose main responsibilities will be setting tariffs and monitoring quality
of service in accordance with procedures also to be set forth in the law. This agency will consist of a
governing Board and a technical secretariat. The Board will consist of five members, and will be
chaired by a representative of MEM. The technical secretariat, staffed with a small number of highly-
qualified specialists, will provide the technical foundation for the decisions of the Board, by means of
studies that it will conduct by itself, or that it will request from qualified international consultants. The
electric utilities will finance the agency's budget. The establishment of the regulatory agency will be a
condition of disbursement for funds which MEM will use to implement the electrification program.
The proposed project will finance training and technical assistance for the agency's staff. It also will
finance the purchase of data processing equipment and software, other office equipment, and vehicles.
Furthermore, IDA will finance an initial pricing study to define regulated prices and adjustment
formulae.
17.       The main provisions of the existing draft Electricity Law are the following: (a) a statement
that the activities of generation, transmission and distribution of electricity can be exerted by physical
or moral persons, national or foreign, after obtaining a license from MEM; (b) the creation of the
regulatory agency and definition of its composition and functions; (c) procedures to obtain licenses for
electricity operations, rights and obligations attached to those instruments, termination of licenses; (d)
establishment of the principle of unbundling of services (with MEM authorized to grant exceptions),
rules for interconnection, and rules to ensure economic operation of power systems and quality of
service; (e) principles and procedures for the pricing of electricity; and (f) supervision and sanctions.
18.       The Government has also invited proposals for consulting services to define a restructuring
program for JIRAMA, including its conversion into a commercially-oriented, joint-stock company, with
the possibility for private participation in its capital. By agreement with IDA, these services will be



- 56 -
Annex 4.1
Page 5 of 5
financed using funds remaining in the Economic Management and Social Action Project (Cr. 1967-
MAG). A specialized firm will: (a) do an assessment and diagnosis of the present situation of
JIRAMA; (b) assist JIRAMA and the Government in the definition of a corporate mission and strategy
for the utility, specifying a practical solution to the issue of separation of water and electricity
operations; (c) define a financial restructuring package for the utility, including a revision of the asset
base, a revaluation of assets, and a recapitalization; and (d) formulate new statutes for the utility as a
joint-stock company, a new organizational structure, and adequate management systems. Furthermore,
the consultant will define a plan for implementing the restructuring package. Under the project, the
same or other consultant will assist JIRAMA, under a separate contract, during actual implementation.
19.       The consulting firm doing the restructuring study will define the parameters for the
improvements in personnel management (see para. 4.14) and will review the master plan for
information technology (para. 4.15). After the changes outlined above are implemented, and JIRAMA
begins operation under the new framework, additional consulting services will be necessary in 1997-98
to re-assess JIRAMA's financial structure; do a valuation study to put a price on shares; and organize
an offering of shares. The offering may include a block of shares reserved for JIRA-MA's employees.
D. Energy Efficiency Program (US$3.4 million)
20.       The proposed project will support a national program for energy efficiency with a focus on
the woodfuels subsector. This program will continue several activities which Energy I initiated
concerning woodfuels and energy efficiency in industry. The energy efficiency program includes two
components: a national program for energy conservation; and a pilot woodfuels program for the
Mahajanga region. The former consists mainly of a program to promote improved charcoal stoves and
more efficient cooking practices in a group of 16 cities. It will also include a program to promote
energy efficiency in industry and transport. For industry, these activities will buaiid on the energy audit
work which took place under the Energy I project.
21.       The Directorate of Energy, with the assistance of consultants financed under Energy I, has
designed the second component, which will test, in the Mahajanga region, an integrated set of measures
MEM eventually will extend to other regions in the country. This component will in-lude: (a) drafting
a master plan for the supply of woodfuels to the city of Mahajanga; (b) setting up the organization and
mechanisms for improved forest management in the region (in coordination with the Directorate of
Water and Forests, Ministry of Agriculture); (c) training wood cutters, charcoal makers and stove
manufacturers in more efficient techniques; (d) investigating alternative fuels for cooking; and (e)
promoting improved charcoal stoves.



Madagascar
Energy Sector Development Project
Project Cost Susary
(FMo Billion)                                     (USS Million)
%     % Total                                     e     e Total
Foreign    Base                                   Foreign    Base
Local   Foreian   Total   Exchang_e Cstsa         Tcal   Foreigr   Total   Exrhanae  Costs
A. JIRAMA a Inveutaent Program
1. Generation
a. Hydro Plant Rehabilitation                                    22.5      79.4    101.9         78        26       6.4      22.7      29.1        78        26
b. Diesel Plant Rehabilitation and Extension                     10L7      27.4      38.1        72        10      3.0  7_      8      10.9        72        10
Subtotal GOneration                                                 33.2    106.8    140.0          76        35       9.5      30.5      40.0         76        35
2. Transmission
a. Namorona-Manakara-Mananjary Transmission                       3.4       7.8      11.2        70         3       1.0       2.2       3.2        70          3
b. Rehabilitation of Transmission Lines                           1.9     4.7         6.7        71         2       02 6      1 4       1 9        71         2
Subtotal Transmission                                                5.3      12.5      17.9        70          4      1.5       3.6        5.1        70         4
3. Distribution
a. Antananarivo Distribution                                     24.5      69.5      94.0        74        24       7.0      19.9      26.9        74        24
b. Distribution Other Large Centers                               7.8      24.3      32 0        76         8       2 2       6 9       9 2        76          8
c. Program of Electricity Connections                           726       24.7       32i 3       76         8       2.2       7.1       9.2        76         8
Subtotal Distribution                                               39 9    118.5    158 3          75        40      11 4      33 8      45.2         75        40
4. Tools and Equipment for Maintenance                               2 5       8 9      11 3        78          3      0 7       2 5        3 2        78         3
5. Other Programs
a. Loss Reduction Program                                         0.5       1.3       1.9        71         -       0.2       0.4      0o5         71          -
b. Capacity Building for Management & Training:
- Organization and Methods for Project Management               -       1.4       1.4       100          -         -      0.4        0.4       100         -
- H. R. Management and Training                             0.4         8.4       8.8        95          2      0Q1       214      2.5          95         2
Subtotal Capacity Building for Manage-ent & Training:             0.4       9.8      10.2        96         3       0.1       2.8       2.9        96          3
c. Information Technology Program                                 2.1       7.1       9.2        77         2       0.6       2.0       2.6        77          2
d. Feasibility Studies for Hydro                                 C.5        3.5       4.0        87         1       0.2     1.0         1.2        87          1
Subtotal Other Programs                                              3.6      21.7      253         86          6      1 0       6.2        7.2        86         6      1
Subtotal JIRASAs Inveatment Program                                    84.4    268.4    352.8           76        89      24.1      76 7    100 8         76        89
B. Electrification Program                                                                                                                                                  Un
1. Studies and Engineering                                           0.5       2.5       3.0        83          1      0.1       0.7        0.9        83         1     '4
2. Institution Building                                              0.0       1.8       1.8        98          -      0.0       0.5        0.5        98         -
3. Construction of Electric Systems                                  2.6      14.6      17.3        85          4      0.8       4.2        4.9        85         4
4. Operational Assistance to Rural Systems                         0.6         0.9       1.5        61          -       0.2   0z 3          0.4        61         -
Subtotal Electrification Program                                         3.8      19.9      23.7        84         6       1.1       5.7       6.8        84         6
C. Institutional Reform of the Power Subsector
1. Legal and Regulatory Framework                                    0.0       5.4       5.4        99          1      0.0       1.5        1.5        99         1
2. Corporatization of JIRAMA                                       0.2         4.3      4.5         95          1      0 .1       1 2       1 3       9s         1
Subtotal Institutional Reform of the Power Subsector                     0.2       9.7       9.9        98         2       0.1       2.8       2.8        98         2
D. Energy Zfficiency Program
1. Program for Energy Conservation                                   2.6       2.8       5.4        52          1      0.7       0.8        1.5        52         1
2. Mahajanga Woodfuels Pilot Program                                 2 2           . 8   6i 0       63          2       06        1.1       1 .7       63         2
Subtotal Energy Efficiency Program                                       48        66       11j 4       58         3       1.4       1 9       3.2        58         3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                     93.2    304.6    397.8          77       100      26.6      87.0    113.7         77       100
Physical Contingencies                                                10.0      31.8       41.8        76        11       2.9       9.1      11.9        76        11
Price Contingencies                                                   54.1 _2251    279 2              81        70      -0.7       7.6       6.9       110         6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                     157.3    561.5    718.8          78       181      28.8    103.7    132 5           78      117
Tue Sep 05 14;00:12 1995
(50>
C3 D
0P
Proj ect Cost Summary



Madagascar
Energy Sector Development Project
Project Cost Sunary
(FMa Billion)             TUSS Million)
%     % Total                                      %6      % Total
Foreign    Base                                     Foreign      Base
Local   Foreign   Total   Exchanae  Costs           Tocal   Foreicm   Total   Exchange  Cost
I. Investment Costs
A. Land
1. Land and rights of way                                              0.4          -       0.4          -         -        0.1          -       0.1         -          -
B. Works
1. JIRANA works
Hydro plant works                                                   7.4       4.2       11.6         36         3       2.1        1.2       3.3         36         3
Other JIRAMA works                                                 18-5          -      18 5-                   5       5.3          -       5.3          -         5
Subtotal JIRAKA works                                                 25.9        4.2      30.1         14         8        7.4       1.2        8.6        14          8
2. MEN electrification works                                          1.6         1.4      3.0          45         1        0.5      0.4         0.9        45          1
Subtotal Works                                                            27.6       5.6       33.1         17         8       7.9        1.6       9.5         17          8
C. Equipment
1. Power system equipment
Hydro plant equipment                                              14.2      68.7       83.0         83        21       4.1       19.6      23.7         83        21
Diesel plant equipment                                              5.5      27.4       32.9        83          8       1.6        7.8       9.4         83          8
Transmission and distribution equipment                            24.8    116.5    141.3            82        36       7.1       33.3      40.4         82        36
KWh meters                                                      _4 9         24.7      29.6         83          7       1 4        7.1       8 5         83          7
Subtotal Power system equipment                                       49.5    237.3    286.8            83        72      14.1       67.8       81.9        83         72
2. General plant
Cars; office and data processing equipment                          1.6       9.3       10.9        86          3       0.4        2.7       3.1         86          3
Equipment and tools for O&M, and for training center              2.8        11.7      14J5          80         4       0.8        3 .3   4.1            80 _        4
Subtotal GOn-ral plant                                                 4.4       21.0 --25-             8 3        6        1.3       6.0        7.2        83          6
Subtotal Equipment                                                        53.9    258.3    312.1            83        78      15.4       73.8      89.2         83         78
D. Services
1. Engineering and consultancies                                      11.1       36.3      47.4         77        12        3.2      10.4       13.5        77         12
2. Training                                                            0L3  4.      5       4t8         93          I       0.1      1.3       1.4          93           I
Subtotal Services                                                         11 4LI    40 B       522          78        13       3.3  ... I6         14 9         78         13  Ln
Total BASILINE COSTS                                                            93.2    304.6    397.8            77       100      26.6       87.0    113.7          77       100  Co
Physical Contingencies                                                       10.0       31.8      41.8         76         11       2.9       9.1       11.9         76        11   I
Price Contingencies                                                          54 1      22L521 .2a22            81         70      -0.7     7U6          6 .9      110          6
Total PROJRCT COSTS                                                            157.3    561.5    718.8            78       181      28.8    103.7    132.5            78        117
Tue Sep 05 14:00:18 1995
mm
P1
0*
Project Cost Summary



Madagascar
Energy Sector Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
Generation
Diesel Plant                        Transmission
Hydro Plant   Rehabilitation Namorona-Manakara-Mananjary        Rehabilitation of
Rehabilitation and Extension          Transmission              Transmission Lines
I. Investment Coet.
A. Land
1. Land and rights of way                                                                                          0.0
B. Works
1. JIRAKA works
Hydro plant works                                                  3.6               -                            -
Other JIRAMA works                                                   -            1.2                   __     .O3                           0.2
Subtotal JIRAKA works                                                 3 .6           1.2                           0.3                          0.2
2. MEM electrification works                                            --                                           -                            Z.
Subtotal Works                                                           3.6             1.2                          0.3                          0.2
C. Equipuent
1. Power system equipment
Hydro plant equipment                                             29.7               -                            -                            -
Diesel plant equipment                                               -           11.0                             -                            -
Transmission and distribution equipment                                              -                          3.3                          2.0
KWh meters                                                           -               -                            -                            -
Subtotal Power system *quipment                                      29.7           11.0                           3 .3                         2.0
2. General plant
Cars; office and data processing equipment                         0.2               -                            -                            -
Equipment and tools for O&M, and for training center                 -                                                                                 n -  -  u
Subtotal  General  plant                                              0-2  ----------- ------                                                     -
Subtotal Equipment                                                      29.9            11.0                          3.3                          2.0
D. Services
1. Engineering and consultancies                                      2.2            0.2                           0.2                            -
2. Training                                                             Z               -                ---_        -                             -
Subtotal Services                                                        2.2 _02                                      0 2                             -
Total IROJNCT COSTS                                                          35.8            12.4                          3.8                           2.2
Taxes                                                                       5.0             1.8                          0.5                           0.3
Foreign Exchange                                                           28.3             9.2                          2.8                           1.6
Tue Sep 05 14:00:23 1995
OQD 
00 X
O .
0*
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies



Madagascar
Energy Sector Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
IRAMA's Investment Program
Other Prooram
Capacity Building for
Management & Training
Distribution               Tools and             Organization
Distribution  Proaram of   Equipment    Loss    and Methods    - H. R.
Antananarivo Other Large  Electricity       for     Reduction for Project   Management
Distribution   Centers    Connections  Maintenance  Prooram   Management  and Training
I. Investment Costs
A. Land
1. Land and rights of way                                          0.1             -            -           -          -            -            -
B. Works
1. JIRAMA works
Hydro plant works                                                 -             -            -           -
Other JIRAMA works                                              1 9          0.6           06-                                   -            -
Subtotal JIRAMA works                                              1.9           0.6          0.6         0.0          -            -             -
2.  MEM   electrification   works                         ____------------ -                 --  - -- __     I  ---------    --     -
Subtotal Worka                                                        1.9           0 6          0.6          0.0         -            -             -
C. Zquipent
1. Power system equipment
Hydro plant equipment                                             -             -            -           -
Diesel plant equipment                                            -             -
Transmission and distribution equipment                        28.7           9.5            -            -         -            -             -
Kwh meters                                             -                         ---- 9--- 9-
Subtotal Power system equipment                                   28.7           9.5          9.9            -         -            -             -
2. General plant
Cars; office and data processing equipment                        -             -            -           -          -                          -
Equipment and tools for O&M, and for training center              -             -            -         3 3        0.2            -          O S      cY
Subtotal  General  plant                                             -             -            - ----------------  33  0. 2        -             8
Subtotal Equipment                                                   28.7           9.5          9.9          3 .3      0.2            -           0.8
D. Services
1. Engineering and consultancies                                   0.9           0.4          0.1           -        0.3          0.4          1.2
2. Training                                                          -             -            -            -         -            -09
Subtotal Services                                                     0,9         0.4        0L    1            -       0j3          0.4           2.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                        31.6         10.5          10.6         3.3       0.6           0.4          2.9
Taxes                                                                    4.9           1.6          1.6          0.6       0.0             -          0.1
Foreign Exchange                                                        24.0           8.1          8.2          2.6       0.4          0.4           2.7
000
0E
Expenditure Accounts by Components- Totals Includinn Contingencies (ctd.)



Madagascar
Energy Sector Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals IncludJng Contingencies
(US$ Million)
Electrification Program                 Institutional
Operational          Power Su
Information Feasibility                             Construction  Assistance      Legal and
Technology    Studies   Studies and  Institution  of Electric    to Rural        Regulatory
Program    for Hydro  Engineering  _B_UildinQ       Systems      Systems        Framework
I. Investment Costs
A. Land
1. Land and rights of way
B. Works
1. JIRAXA works
Hydro plant works                                                 -
Other JIRAM4A works                                             0-                          -            -             -             -                -
Subtotal JIRNAK works                                              0.2           -             -             -            -             -                -
2. MEM electrification works                                         -           -             -             -          0-                               -
Subtotal Works                                                        02             -            -             -          09              -                -
C. Equipment
1. Power  ystsn equipment
Hydro plant equipment                                                                 -                                -
Diesel plant equipment                                                                                                 -
Transmission and distribution equipment                           -           -             -             -          4.7             -                -
KWh meters                                              _           _            _
Subtotal Power cysts- equipment                                      -           -             -             -          4*7             -                -
2. General plant
Cars; office and data processing equipment                      2.5           -             -          0.2             -             -             0.1
Equipment and tools for O&M, and for training center              --                                                                         -        -  0
Subtotal General plant                                             25-                         -          02              -             -              0 1 
Subtotal Equipment                                                    2 S            -            -           0.2          4.7             -              0.1
D. Services
1. Engineering and consultancies                                   0 1         1.3           0 9          0 2           0.1           0.3              1.3
2. Training                                                          -           -             - a        02              -C.2                         0 .3
Subtotal Services                                                     0 1         1.3           0 9           0L 3         0.1           0 5              1 6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                        2.8          1.3          0.9           0.6           5.8          0.5              1.7
Taxes                                                                    04             -             -            -             -            -
Foreign Exchange                                                         2.2          1.1          0.8           0.6          51           0.3              1.7
0Q3
m (D
x
O .
Exoenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies (ctd .)



Madagascar
Energy Sector Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS Million)
Reform of the   Energy Efficiency Proaram
bsector                        Mahajanga
Program for   Woodfuels
Corporatization    Energy        Pilot
of JIRAMA   cgnaservaign   Program    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Land
1. Land end rights of way                                                -             -             -   0.1
B. Works
1. JIRANA works
Hydro plant works                                                     -             -             -   3.6
Other JIRAMA works                                                    -             -                 5
Subtotal TXRMAX  works                                                   -             -             -   8.7
2. MEN electrification works                                             -             -             -    _
Subtotal Works                                                               -            -             -   9.6
C. Equipment
1. Power system equipment
Hydro plant equipment                                                 -             -             -  29.7
Diesel plant equipment                                                -             -             -  11.0
Transmission and distribution equipment                               -             -             -  48.2
KWh meters                                                            -             -                 9_9
Subtotal Power system  equipment                                         -             -             -  98.8
2. General plant
Cars; office and data processing equipment                            -           0.1          0.1   3. 3
Equipment and tools for OaM, and for training center                  -             -             -   4..                                            a,
Subtotal General plant                                     _--                       O ----------------1  01   7-6
Subtotal Equipment                                                           -          0 1           0 1 106.4
D. Services
1. Engineering and consultancies                                       1.5           1.5          1 7  14.9
2. Training                                                              -             -             - 16
Subtotal Services                                                          1.5          1 5           1 7  16.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                             1.5           1.6          1 8 132.5
Taxes                                                                           -             -            -  17 0
Foreign Exchange                                                              1.4          0.9           1.2 103.7
m m
a,
O .
0*
th N
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies (ctd.)



Madagascar
Energy Sector Development Project
Components by Financiers
(US$ Million)
The
IDA           EIB             CFD       ----BADEA- _       IRA         Government       Tot
Amsunt   S    Amount W        Amount   %    Amount s        Amount   t    Amount   t    Amount
A. JIRAMA's Investment Program
1. Generation
a. Hydro Plant Rehabilitation                                1.1    3.1   15.1   42.3   12.1   -3.e          -      -    7.4   20.8        -      -   35.8
b. Diesel Plant Rehabilitation and Extension                92. 23.9           -   -2  - i           -         1     --2                             --I4
Subtotal Generation                                            10.3   21.4   15.1   31.4   12.1   25.1          -       -   10.7   22.2       -       -   48.2
2. Transmission
a. Namorona-Manakara-Mananjary Transmission                  0.1    2.3        -      -    2.6   69.2        -      -    1.1   28.5        -      -    3.8
b. Rehabilitation of Transmission Lines                    1.6 --73 36 -   _                  -      -       -      -       6   267        -       - 22
Subtotal Transmission                                           1.7   28.0        -      -    2.6   44.1        -       -    1.7   27.8       -       -    6.0
3. Distribution
a. Antananarivo Distribution                                 0.8    2.6    9.6   30.4   13.5   42.7          -      -    7.7   24.3        -      -   31.6
b. Distribution Other Large Centers                          1.5   13.8       -       -       -      -    6.6   63.2    2.4   23.0         -      -   10.5
c. Program of Electricity Connections                        8L2   7726       -       -       -      -       -      -    2. 4   22 4A      -      -
Subtotal Distribution                                          10.5   19.9    9.6   18.2   13.5   25.6    6.6   12.6   12.5   23.7            -       -   52 8
4. Tools and Equipment for Maintenance                          2.7   81.6        -      -       -      -       -       -    0.6   18.4       -       -    3 3
5. Other Progras
a. Loss Reduction Program                                    0.4   74.4       -       -       -      -       -      -    0 1   25 6        -      -    0.6
b. Capacity Building for Management & Training:
- Organization and Methods for Project Management         0.4  100.0       -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -    0.4
- H. R. Management and Training                          2A 5   87.7       -       -      -       -      -       -    0.4 _1_22 3      -       -    2_2
Subtotal Capacity Building for Management & Training:    2.9   89.2           -       -       -      -       -      -    0.4   10.8        -      -    3.3
c. Information Technology Program                            2.2   78.2       -       -       -      -       -      -    0.6   21.8        -      -    2.8
d. Feasibility Studies for Hydro                          ..11   89 41        -       - __-                  -      -    O.1   10 6LE      -      -     13
Subtotal Other Progress                                         6.6   844         -      -       -      -       -       -    1                             79 -  -
Subtotal JIRAAI's Investment Program                               31.8   26.9   24.7   20.9   28.3   23.9    6.6    5.6   26.7   22.6            -      -  118.1
B. Electrification Program
1. Studies and Engineering                                      0.9  100.0        -      -       -      -       -                                          0.9 --
2. Institution Building                                         0.6   99.9        -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -    0.0    0.1    0.6
3. Construction of Electric Systems                             5.7   98.1        -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -    0.1    1.9    5.8
4. operational Assistance to Rural Systems                     0.5   98.2         -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -    O .0    1.8    0.5
Subtotal glectrification Program                                    7.7   98.5       -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -    0.1    1.5    7.8
C. Institutional Reform of the Power Subsector
1. Legal and Regulatory Framework                               1.7  100.0        -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -    0.0       -    1.7
2. Corporatization of JIRAMA                                    1-5  100.0        -      - _            -       -       -      -       -      -       -
Subtotal Institutional Reform of the Power Subsector                3.2  100.0       -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -    0.0       -    3.2
D. Energy Efficiency Program
1. Program for Energy Conservation                              1.5   93.1        -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -    0.1    6.9    1.6
2. Mahajanga Woodfuels Pilot Program                            1L8  100. 0       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -    18
Subtotal Energy Efficiency Program                                  3 .3   96.8      -       -              -      -       -      -       - _  Oi1    3.2  3.4
Total Disbursement                                                  46 0   34 7   24.7   18.7   28.3   21.3    6.6    5.0   26.7   20.1    0.2    0 2  132 5
Tue Sep 05 13:59:57 1995
Co
Components by Financiers   (ctd.)



Madagascar
Energy Sector Development Project
Components by Financiers
(US$ Million)
Local Duties
AL.......... For.  (Excl.   &
A. JIRAUA's Investment Program
1. Generation
a. Hydro Plant Rehabilitation                                    27.0  28.3    2.4    5.0
b. Diesel Plant Rehabilitation and Extension                    9.4   9.2    1A4  1.8
Subtotal Generation                                                 36.4  37.5    3 .9    6.8
2. Transmission
a. Namorona-Manakara-Mananjary Transmission                       2.9   2.8    0.5    0.5
b. Rehabilitation of Transmission Lines                          1J6   1..6    0.3    0 ..3
Subtotal Transmission                                                4.5   4.3    0.8    0.8
3. Distribution
a. Antananarivo Distribution                                     23.9  24.0    2 .8    4.9
b. Distribution Other Large Centers                               7.9   8.1    0.8    1.6
c. Program of Electricity Connections                           .8L0   8.2    02 ...1.6
Subtotal Distribution                                               39.8  40.3    4 .3    8. 2
4. Tools and Equipment for Maintenance                               2.5   2.6    0 1    0.6
5. Other Progres
a. Loss Reduction Program                                         0.4   0.4    0.1    0.0
b. Capacity Building for Nanagent & Training:
- Organization and Methods for Project Management             0.3   0.4        -       -
- H. R. Management and Training                                2    2.7        _     O 1
Subtotal Capacity Building for management & Training:    2.5   3.1                 -    0.1
c. Information Technology Program                                 2.1   2.2    0.2    0.4
d. Feasibility Studies for Hydro                                        .1    0. 1
Subtotal Other Progrems                        5i9  6.9    0t4    06s
Subtotal JIRAIA's Investmnt Program                                     89.1  91.6    9.5   17.0
B. Electrification Program 
1. Studies and Engineering                                           0.7   0.8    0.1          -
2. Institution Building                                              0.4   0.6    0.0          -
3. Construction of Electric Systems                                  4.4   5.1    0.7
4. Operational Assistance to Rural Systems                           0.4   0__ 3           0
Subtotal Electrification Program                                         5.9   6.8    1.0
C. Institutional Reform of the Power Subsector
1. Legal and Regulatory Framework                                    1.3   1.7    0.0
2. Corporatization of JIRAMA                                       1.1 1i     4    0 .1-----J -
Subtotal Institutional Reform of the Power Subsector                     2.4   3.1    0.1
D. Energy Efficiency Program
1. Program  for Energy Conservation                                  1.2   0.9    0.7
2. Mahajanga Woodfuels Pilot Program                             1.     4 ._2    0.  6
Subtotal Energy Efficiency Program                                       2S 6 .2 2 ?    I 1-
ToLkl Disbursement                                                      100.0 103.7   11.8   17.0
>"
02 
(D ro
O .
o ti
OC
Components by Financiers (ctd. )



REPUBUC OF MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1995         199W         1997          199118       1999         2000         2001
Tusk Name                                        Duration    Start    Finih  0 30401 Q 27J03J0   10J3Q    19T~                   12Q   4Q  0230    01J0-2Fj3TJ04
i Part A: JIRAMA's INVESTMENT PROGRAM    261.6w    713196    71610
1.1 Generation rehabiliftaton and expansion       179w      713Y95   12f7/9
1.1.1 RehabIlitation of hydro plants              171w      7/3/95   10/12/98...
1.1.1.1 Final engineering and prep. of bid docs   4Oew      7/3/95    4/8/9
1. 1.1.2 Bidding and direct procurmffent          28ew      7/29/9    2/10/97
1.1.1.3 Manufacturing, transportation, mobilization  52ew   2/10197    2/9/98
1.1.1.4 Execution of rehabilitaton works           52w     10/13/97  10/12/98
1.1.1.4.1 Mandraka                                 52w     10/13/97  10121298
1. 1. 1.4. 1.' Civil works                        26ew    10/13/97  4/13/98
1. 1.1.4.1.2 Hydraulic structures, penstock       13ew      2/9/98   5/11/98
1. 1.1.4.1.3 Guard valves, turbines, speed regulators  26ew  4/13/98   10/12/98
1. 1.1.4.1.4 Generators, excitation, AVRs         26ew      4/13/98   10/12/98
1.1.1.4.1.5 Control panels and protection equipmrent  26ew  4/13/98   10/12/98                                                                                            U,
1.1.1.4.1.6 Station auxiliaries                   128w      7/698    9/28/98
1.1.1.4.1.7 Substation, equipment                  dew      a/1 7/98   9/14/98
1.1.1.4.2 Antalomltas                              44W      12/8/917  10/12/98
1. 1.1.4.2.1 Civil works                           186w     12/8/97   4/13/98
1. 1.1.4.2.2 Hydraulic structures, penstockc       dew      3/16/98   4/13/98
1.1.1.4.2.3 Guard valves, turbines, speed regulators  26ew  4/13/98   10/12/98...
1. 1.1.4.2.4 Generators, excitation, AVRs          26ew     4/13/98   10/12/98
1. 1.1.4.2.5 Control panels and protection equipmrent  26ew  4/13/98   10/12/98
1. 1.1.4.2.6 Station auxiliaries                   8ew      7/6/98   8/31/98
1. 1.1.4.2.7 Substation equipment                  dew      8/31/98   9/28/98
1.1.1.4.3 anandona                                 38w      1/12/98   10/5/98
1.1. 1.4.3.1 Civil works                           128w     1/12/98   4/6/98                                                                                            O 
1.1.1.4.3.2 Hydraulic structures, penstock         dew      3/9/98    4/8/98                                                                                               X
0~
1. 1.1.4.3.3 Guard valves, turbines, speed regulators 26    4/6/98    10/59
1. 1.1.4.3.4 Generators, excitation, AVRs         26ew      4/6/98    10/5/98



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1995         1996         1997         1998         1999         2000         2001
Task Name                                       Duration    Start    Finish  Q2|Q3|Q4Q1|Q2|Q3|Q4 Q1 JQ2JQ3:Q 0  02|Q3|04 01 Q2|Q3|Q4 01 0Q2 03 04 Q1|Q2|Q3|Q4
1.1.1.4.3.5 Control panels and protection equipment  26ew  4/6/98    10/5/98
1.1.1.4.3.6 Station auxiliaries                   4ew      8/31/98   9/28/98
1.1.1.4.3.7 Substation equipment                  4ew      8/31/98   9/28/98
1.1.1.4.4 Other hydro plants                      46w     10/20/97   9/7/98
1.1.1.4.4.1 Civil works                           18ew    10/20/97  2/23/98
1.1.1.4.4.2 Electromechanical works               18ew     2/9/98   6/15/98
1.1.1.4.4.3 Metering, control, protection         16ew     5/18/98    9/7/98
1.1.2 Rehabilitation and expansion of diesel plants  179w   7/3/95    12/7/98
1.1.2.1 Final engineering                         30ew     7/3/95    1/29/96
1.1.2.2 Preparation of bidding documents          8ew      1/29/96   3!25/96
1.1.2.3 Preparation of lists of propietory spares  8ew      1/1/96   2/26/96
1.1.2.4 Procurement, ICB and other                26ew     3/25/96   9/23/96
1.1.2.5 Manufacturing and transportation          50ew     9/23/96    9/8/97
1.1.2.6 Execution of works                        80ew     5/26/97   12/7/98
1.2 Transmission extension                        132w      3/1/96   9/11/98
1.2.1 Namorona-Manakara-Mananjary system          132w      3/1/96   9/11/98
1.2.1.1 Final design                              30ew      3/1/96   9/27/96
1.2.1.2 Preparation of bid docsforequipment       12ew     8/30/96   11/22/96
1.2.1.3 Bidding and contracting                   24ew    11/22/96   5/9/97
1.2.1.4 Manufacturing and transportation          40ew      5/9/97    2/13/98
1.2.1.5 Construction                              38w      12/19/97  9/11/98
1.2.1.5.1 Namorona-irondro 63 kV line             22ew    12V19/97   5122'98
1.2.1.5.2 Irondro-Manakara 35 kV line             26ew    12/19/97  6/19/98
1.2.1.5.3 1rondro-Mananjary 35kV line             16ew     5/22/98   9/11/98
1.2.1.5.4 Irondro substation                      18ew    12/19/97  4/24/98    .Q .
__ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M(rD
1.2.1.5.5 Manakara substation                     8ew      3/27/98   3/22/98  _                                                                                           X
1.2.1.5.6 Mananjary substation                    8ew      5!227,98   7/17/98



TF                          -4w W       N        N        _        N        _         N        N        _        W        _        _                          
i~~~~~ i                                                         CA N) -    N) g   ii->    4
ii       KN                                          N7 N                                                                                j                                   U1 _Oi                      CA      N) B  p                              71  i
|ef~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C PS                                                                                                                                 Ut
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
CA                N          )                  )N                                                            N)                                  OD   (AtN.                                                                 ) N
m
.. . .    . . . . .    . .   . . .    . . . . . . . .    . . . I . . . .     ... . .   .. .. .   ... . .     .. . . .     ........    . . . . ........     ........     .. . .   .. .. .1' ... ..   .......     ........     .     .....  .....
Z cn
_ =  = =  = = =  = - :1=  = T=  l jO
~~~~~~~ . . . . ......                                                           ..  . . . . .. .     .                                                            ........    . ........    .. .....   .     ........-- 11--L:L 
00
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N -  xu
. .. .......   .. .....    .......... .....  ...... .    . ...  . ......... ... .   .   .   ... .  ..    ...... .......      ...........  ..... .....CA.
.   ..... .. ............  ....  ......... ......... .......... ....  ...  ......        I        .........  .                ... ..........   ...   .
. .  .   ....   . ..     .  ....... ....  ....  . ..  ........  ....  ..............                                   .... .....                    ....  ........  ....a.
.    .... ........ . ... ...... ...  .... ..... ...  ....  .... ... ....  .... ...  ........ ........ ........  ----............
. .  ..  .......  .... ...  .............     . ..... .... ...   ........ ...  .............  ...CA ....    ...
.        - .. -.........                      ...  ...  ..............  ....     ..   .. .-....  .....  ..   ........... .. ..-  ..                                                                      - ....  ....0... ...  .....
..  . . ..  ...... ..   .... . ..  ....     ........ ........ ...   ...................     .........  ................. ......... ....  ...  ....
.     .   . .. .. .   .. .   .   .. ..   . .. .. .. .. ..   .. ..   . .. .. .. .. .. .. ..   . .. .. .. ...   . .. .. .. .. .  ..   .   . .. .   .. ..   . ... .   .. .. .   .. ..   . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .     .   . ..   . .. ..   . .. .. .. .. .   .. .. . A
......... ......... .......... ........ ...... .. ....  .............   ... ....I..    .........   ...  .. ...      ..... ..  ......                                                  ...   ...
9 Jo   9'1e                                                                                                                    -9-
C-4 xauuy



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1995        199S        '199i7       '1998         1999         2000         2001
Task Name                                       Duration    Start    Finish  Q203[Q4 Q1Q2|Q31Q4 Q0110203 04                                1 01Q20Q3 Q4 Q1 Q20304
1.4 OtherJIRAMA programs                         233.8w    1/2/96   6/26/00    .  .,..                                   .            .     _i-
i.4.i Los reduction program                      i152w     1/2/9    i2/1/98          .     __                                
1.4.1.1 Program planning                         20ew      121296   5/21/96            -                       
1.4.1.2 Diagnosis study                           8ew     a/13/96   10/U.
1.4.1.3 Definition of action plan                 8ew      10/8/96   12/3/96
1.4.1.4 Implementation of loss reduction plan    104ew    12/3/96   12/1/98
1.4.2 Human resources management and training     189w    11/11/96  6126/00    .i.i.-                      _         _i_                    _      .
1.4.2.1 Recruitnentofconsuftingfirm              21ew    11111/96   4/7/97
1.4.2.2 Preparation of master plan for HR         12ew     4/7/97   6/30/97
1.4.2.3 Revision of Jobs manual                  26ew      5/5/97    11/3/97
1.4.2.4 Definition career streams and salary grid  12ew    10/6/97  12/29/97
1.4.2.5 Definition evaluation, promotions, system  16ew    12/1/97   3/23/98
1.4.2.6 Training                                  130w    12129/97   /2S100     =
1.4.2.6.1 Definition training programs, equipment  26ew    12129/97  6/29/98    .        .  .       _       . -
1.4.2.6.2 Equipment for training center           74w      611/98   11/1/99
1.4.2.6.2.1 Pnrparation of bid documents          4ew      611/98   6/29/98
1.4.2.6.2.2 Bidding and contracting               22ew     6/29/98   11/30/98
1.4.2.6.2.3 Manufacturing and transportation      40ew    11/30/98   9/6/99
1.4.2.6.2.4 Installaton                           8ew      9/6/99   111199
1.4.2.6.3 Execution of training programs         104ew    6/29/98   6/26/00
1.4.3 Infonnatfon technology program              106w    12123/96   1/4/99    .         ...
1.4.3.1 Revision of existing Master plan          4ew     12/23/96   1/20/97
1.4.3.2 Preparation of bid documents              20ew     1/20/97   6/9/97
1.4.3.3 Bidding and contracting                   26ew     6/9/97    12/8/97                          -                  .      ...-.-
1.4.3.4 Manufacturing and transportation          30ew     12/8/97    7/6/98                                           ...
1.4.3.5 Installation                              26ew     7/6/98    1/4/99
0
1.4.3.6 Technical assistance and training         14ew      /3/98    11/9/98



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1995         1996         1997         1998          1999         2000          2001
Task Name                                        Duration    Start    Finish  Q2 13Q4 Q1Q20Q3041 Q2 03 04 01 02!03 0 1 Q2!Q3!4 Q1 02030Q4 Q1 Q20Q30Q4
2 Part B: ELECTRIFICATION PROGRAM                 279w      5/2/96    9/6/01
2.1 Recruitrment of consultants                    2lew     5/2/96    9/26/96
2.2 Studies and engineering                        52ew    10/24/96  10/23/97
2.3 Preparation of bid documnents                  14ew     4/24/97   7/31/97
2.4 Bidding and contracting (equipment)            26ew     7/31/97   1/29/98
2.5 Manufacturing and transportation               40ew     1/29/98   11/5/98
2.6 Construction of electric systems              156ew    9/10/98    9/6/01
2.7 Institution building/reinforcement             44ew    12/19/96  10/23/97
2.8 Operational assistance to rural systems       216ew     6/5/97    7/26/01
3  Part C: POWER SECTOR REFORM                     186w     10/2/95   4/26199
3.1 Nw legal and regulatory framework              135w     411/96    11/2/98
3.1.1 Development of new legislafion              34.2w     4/1/96   11/25196
3.1.1.1 Drafting of Electricity law                8ew      4/1/96    5/27/96
3.1.1.2 Submission to National Assembly             Od      6/3/96    6/3J96
3.1.1.3 Debabng by National Assembly              8.3ew     6/3/96    7/31/96                               .     .   .                             .  .
3.1.1.4 Enactmrent of Law                           Od      7/31/96   7/31/96
3.1.1.5 Preparation of complem. regulations        26ew     5/27/96   11/25/96
3.1.1.6 Issuing of regulations by executive         Id      11/25/96  11/25/96
3.1.2 Seting up of regulatory body                 126w     6/3/96    11/2/98
3.1.2.1 Selection of personnel                     26ew     6/3/96    12/2/96
3.1.2.2 Formal establishrment of agency             Od      12/2/96   12/2/96
3.1.2.3 Training of personnel                      26ew     12/2/96    6/2/97
3.1.2.4 Procurement office equipment, vehicles     36ew     7/31/96    4/9/97
3.1.2.5 Provision of technical assistance         104ew    11/4/96   11/2/98                                              | ,
3.1.3 Price regulation study                       77w      7/31/96   1/21/98                                                                   .  .  .       .  .  .   Ln
3.1.3.1 Recruitment of consufting firmm            21ew     7/31/96   12/25/96 |
3.1.3.2 Execution of the study                     40ew     1/22/97   10/29/97



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1995         1996         1997         1998         1999         2000         2001
.Task Name                                      Duration    Start    Finish  Q2|Q3IQ4 Q102 103 0Q4 Q1 Q21Q3 Q4 Q1 |Q2IQ31Q4 Q1  Q2|Q3|Q4 Q11021|3|Q4 Q1  2Q
3.1.3.3 Putting into effect new tariff system     8ew      11/26/97   121/98    .
3.2 Restructuring of JIRAMA                       186w     102/V95   4126199
3.2.1 Audit and estructufing study                124w     1012196  2V16/98_
3.2.1.1 Recruitment of consulting firm            26ew     10/2/95   4/1/96
3.2.1.2 Operational & structural evaluation       12ew     4/29/96   7/22/96
3.2.1.3 Definition corporate objectives, strategy  10ew    8/19/96   10/28/96
3.2.1.4 Reorganiz. /financial restructuring plan  16ew    10/28/96  2/17/97
3.2.1.5 Implementation of restructur.ng plan      52ew     2/17/97   2/16/98
3.2.2 Valuation study (to be decided)             16ew     8/17/98   12/7/98
3.2.3 Sales of stock (to be decided)              20ew     12/7/98   4/26/99
4  Part D: ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM              217w     5/1/95   6/28/99     .               .      .       .  :  .  .  .     .     :      .j.
4.1 National program for energy conservation      160w      6/3196   6128199
4.1.1 Identification study                        26ew     6/3/96    12/2/96
4.1.2 Institution building and reinforcement      35ew     12/2/96    8/4/97
4.1.3 Preparation of action plan                  12ew     12/2/96   2/24/97
4.1.4 Program for industry                        52ew     4/21/97   4/20/98
4.1.5 Program for transport                       52ew     4/21/97   4/20/98
4.1.6 Dissemination of improved stoves in 16 cities  156ew  7/1/96    6/28/99
4.2 Woodfuels program for Mahajanga               164w      6/1/95   6/22/98
4.2.1 Identification of resources and actors      20ew      5/1/95   9/18/95
4.2.2 Development of action plan                  12ew     9/18/95   12/11/95
4.2.3 Participatory preparation woodfuels mgmt plan  26ew  6/10/96   12/9/96
4.2.4 First implementation of management plan     80ew     12/9/96   6/22/98
4.2.5 Professionalization charcoalers, stove makers  80ew   3/4/96    9/15/97   .Q _
.  E  _ _  _ - g   .,      .,   .       E  .  i      .,   '.  ~~~~~~~(D M
4.2.6 Investigation of alternative energy sources  20ew     3/4/96    7/22/96                                                                                          ON
4.2.7 Promotion of improved charcoal stoves       52ew     4/29/96   4/28/97           _
.-- '' . . . , ., , ., ., ,, . . oE~~~~~~~~~~~~" U.



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Profile Comparison
1 00%r/
80%10s
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
6 60%o
.0~~~~~~~~
V   20%/o-                   oll
0%                                                                                                           ----- --------  -   I1-l     ll 
0      2      4      6       8      10     12     14      16     18    20      22     24      26     28     30      32
Quarters from Approval Date
| " > IBRD Power Projects in Africa   ' -Madagascar: Energy I    - Project Profle
x m
oq 



- 72 -
Annex 4.5
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR: ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF TRANSMISSION COMPONENTS
1.           Introduction. This annex summarizes the results of an environmental analysis which a
consultant carried out in March 1994, for the construction of transmission facilities included in the project.
These facilities support the development of the Antananarivo distribution network and the extension of the
Fiantarantsoa interconnected system.
2.            Conclusions of the analysis. The analysis confirmed that the transmission corridors and
substation sites, which JIRAMA has designated for the planned installations, do not traverse any
environmentally-sensitive areas. They cross, however, inhabited and agricultural areas. The primary
environmental issue is the potential socio-cultural and anthropological impact. To mitigate any adverse
impact, environmental planning will focus on good route planning and construction practices.
3.            The facilities. For the Namorona-Manakara-Mananjary system, the project will include
one 60-kmn-long, 63-kV line between the Namorona hydro plant and Irondro; a 63/35-kV substvjtion at
Irondro; one 50-km-long, 35-kV line between Irondro and Mananjary; and one 90-km-long, 35-kV line
between Irondro and Manakara. This system is shown in the attached map IBRD 25661. For the
Antananarivo distribution expansion, the project will construct a 138-kV, 20-MVA substation lo .he north
of the city, and a 20-km-long, 138-kV line to link the new substation with the existing Ambohimanambola
substation, located to the south-east of the capital.
4.            Terrain traversed by the systems. The land within the corridors of the two proposed
transmission systems already has suffered comprehensive destruction of the pdlnary ecology. Slash-and-
burn techniques, and high population densities have radically altered the nawlral environment. There are
scattered remnants of native species of plants and animals, but the intensi , ldnd use within these corridors
precludes any significant reestablishment of the original species in the foreseeable future. Agriculture is
the primary land use in these areas, mostly mixed and subsistence farming. The other major use of the
land is for human settlements.
5.            The Namorona-Manakara-Mananjary transmission extension crosses a variety of terrain
and land uses. From east to west, the system traverses the nearshore lagoon/dulle/barrier bar system; the
coastal plain, including some developed wetlands. It also crosses the zone of low fuothills and the
montane zone. The entire corridor, approximately 100m to either side of the road, consists of cultivated
land, settlements, or scattered secondary brush and tree growth. The transmission facilities which form
part of the Antananarivo distribution works, cross agricultural and residential land located in the rolling
terrain of the High Plateau. The section which was the focus of the analysis is locattd at the outskirts of
the city of Antananarivo.
6.            Historical and cultural aspects. There are a number of cultural and archeological sites
within or near the corridors of both proposed systems. These consist primarily of cemeteries and, in the
Antananarivo area, circular rock walls with an approximate radius of 50 to 100 m, remnants of ancient
fortifications which also served as burial grounds for ancestors. Places of burial are extremely important
in the Malagasy culture, and are regularly visited for a variety of occasions. The traditional belie*s of the
Malagasy include a belief in the powers of the dead, and a well-developed system of taboos. There is
often a local designation of sacred trees, hills, springs, and stones, and the project will need to consult
with the local community to identify these sites and take appropriate measures to protect them.



- 73 -                              Annex 4.5
Page 2 of 2
7.            Negative environmental impacts and mitigation measures. The environmental analysis
identified some possible negative environmental impacts, most of them typical of transmission projects:
disruption of agricultural activities; loss of land; removal of trees and brush in right-of-way; and erosion.
It is possible to avoid or mitigate these potential negative impacts through adequate selection of right-of-
way; timely communication to those affected; adaptation of work schedules to avoid harvest or planting, as
well as the rainy season in areas with erosion potential; reseeding exposed areas; and other suitable
measures. Population relocation is unlikely, however, if it was necessary, the project will follow the
relevant Bank procedures. Farmers will receive proper compensation from JIRAMA in cases where the
project affects their fields.
8.            Positive environmental impacts. The proposed transmission extension will reduce
contamination of the environment with petroleum products. The diesel plants in Manakara and Mananjary
are a source of contamination of the lagoon system because of waste and leakages of lubricant oil and
diesel oil. Fuel is transported to Manakara and Mananjary by ship. Then small boats shuttle the fuel
between the ship and the port. Onshore, the fuel is pumped into storage tanks. The pipeline is flushed
with seawater, which afterwards returns to the sea. Depending on the weather, the risk for accidents and
spills can be high. As electricity generation is one of the main uses of fuel in the area, the substitution of
thermal for hydro power would reduce the frequency of these operations and the corresponding risks.
9.            Local environmental regulations. Malagasy law requires that, for infrastructure projects of
this type, JIRAMA submit an environmental assessment to the Office National de l'Environnement (ONE),
for its review and approval prior to construction. This law is relatively recent (Decree 92-926, issued
October 21, 1992), and is not well known by JIRAMA. Within this project, JIRAMA will incorporate in
its design practices the activities needed for compliance with the law. JIRAMA also will begin creating
the necessary capabilities so that, for future projects, the environment is a factor in design considerations
from the very beginning.
10.           Present JIRAMA practices. Most of the standard JIRAMA practices for construction and
maintenance of transmission facilities are inherently low in their environmental impact and have practical
economic benefit to people along the routes. Works are done by hand, providing employment and
minimizing environmental damages. During construction, workers are housed in private homes in nearby
villages. This arrangement benefits the local economy and eliminates the potential adverse impact of a
temporary construction camp. Also, people receive the wood from the clearing of rights-of-way for use as
fuel. Finally, chemicals are not used for line maintenance. Instead, JIRAMA employs local people to cut
grass and brush by hand.
11.           Recommendations and mitigation plan. The report outlines specific recommendations for
the design, and mitigation measures to be applied in critical areas such as river crossings, wetlands,
extreme slopes, and areas without adequate soil stabilization. It indicates the environmental information
needed for route selection, and recommends that JIRAMA begin, immediately, a process of public
consultation as part of the design work. The report also provides guidelines for the final route selection,
aimed at minimizing negative impacts. These include routing the right of way within 50m of the road,
unless there are overwhelming constraints, since both natural systems and human development have
already adjusted to the road corridor; limiting the extent of access roads; and minimizing right-of-way
width.
12.           Technical assistance and capacity-building. To help JIRAMA achieve environmentally-
sound design and construction, the project will include technical assistance, along with training for
JIRAMA's personnel. These actions will begin creating environmental awareness and in-house
environmental capabilities in IIRAMA. Within the framework of this assistance, consultants will review
the route selection study and transmission system design; provide training to JIRAMA in environmental
assessment, environmental management planning, and public and regulatory consultation; and monitor the
implementation of environmental mitigation measures during construction.



MADAGASCAR: ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INDICATORS OF ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
PROJECT OBJECTIVE                   INDICATOR OF ACHIEVEMENT                                         SOURCE
Improve prospects for economic
growth, and improve living standards,
by ensuring electricity supply to:
businesses    a  Number of new businesses installed per year.                  JIRAMA
* KWh consumed by those new businesses.
*  Number of connection requests from new businesses that could
not be satisfied due to lack of materials or to insufficient system
capacity.
households    *  Number of new households connected per year.                  JIRAMA
* KWh consumed by those new households.
* Number of connection requests from households that could not be
satisfied due to lack of materials or to insufficient system capacity.
Increased access of peri-urban and  *  Number of new consumers connected per year in predesignated   MEM to designate target areas.
rural populations to the service.      target areas.                                                 JIRAMA to collect the
information.
*  KWh consumed per year by those new consumers.                JIRAMA
x
0.
Mh 0



Greater economic and management   .  JIRAMA's performance indicators (see next section of this  JIRAMA
efficiency in the power sector.     Annex).
.  Ratio of average tariff by zone to average price for the zone at  Initially JIRAMA, then the
effectiveness, with both expressed in constant FMG.      Regulatory Agency.
Increased energy efficiency:
in charcoal production  *  Estimated increase in efficiency by region in the yearly production  UPED
of charcoal energy.
in charcoal consumption   .  Estimated increase in efficiency by urban center in the yearly  UPED
consumption of charcoal for cooking due to market penetration of
improved cookstoves.
in industry             *  Number of businesses that have implemented energy efficiency    DE
measures.
-J
*  Total energy losses, as a percentage of net generation, in  JIRAMA
JIRAMA's networks.
in the trausport sector  *  Estimated fuel savings per year.                         DE
Protection of the environment    .  Estimated reduction, by region, in the yearly wood offiake from    UPED
natural forests for use as fuel, attributable to the project.
.  Ratio of that reduction to mean annual increase of areas  UPED
concerned.
D1 m
x
0*



- 76 -
Annex 4.6
Page 3 of 4
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR ELECTRIC UTILITIES
The new legal framework for the power sector, that the government of Madagascar will
propose to the National Assembly for discussion and approval, will include provisions for the
regulatory agency to monitor the performance of all power utilities operating in the sector.
The regulator's monitoring will concentrate on the quality of service being offered to the
consumers, judged against predefined standards. To this effect, the existing draft Electricity
Law establishes the following:
"Quality of service of power distribution utilities operating systems with installed
capacity larger than 1500 kW will conform, concerning voltage, frequency,
availability, and other aspects, to the norms established in the applicable regulations.
In systems with installed capacity of less than 1500 kW the required level of quality
of service will be agreed between the concessionnaire and the concerned
municipality".
"Distribution utilities must cause a survey to be undertaken at their own expense, once
a year, at a time determined by the regulatory commnission, among their clients, to
assess the quality of service received by them. The survey will cover aspects such as
voltage, number of outages, time to restore service in case of black-outs, infornation
communicated to the clients, timeliness of billing, and attention to new connection
requests".
"The regulatory commission will indicate the content of the survey, which will be
carried out by specialized firms, duly registered with the commission. The results of
the survey and the corresponding analysis will be communicated directly to the
regulatory conmmission and to the utility".
"Additionally, distribution utilities are required to maintain indices of the continuity of
service offered to their clients, calculated according to specifications that will be
issued by the regulatory commission after consulting with the utilities."
The financial performance of the utilities is a concern of their owners and creditors. For the
case of JIRAMA, performance will be monitored by the government and the World Bank as
indicated below.



- 77 -
Annex 4.6
Page 4 of 4
JIRAMA
Technical aspects
For each center the following indices will be kept and monitored:
Continuity
* Non-supplied energy, by month and by year.
* Equivalent outage time, by month and year.
Efficiencv
Total losses, calculated as the difference of net generation and sales,
expressed as a percentage of net generation.
Specific fuel consumption for thermal plants, in liters per kWh.
Management and financial aspects
Target values for these indicators will be reviewed or defined by the consultants doing
the restructuring study.
Staffing
Number of consumers per employee.
MWh sold per employee.
Financial
* Debt to equity ratio (it will not exceed 70/30 after restructuring).
* Debt service coverage ratio.
* Self financing ratio.
* Number of days of receivables (60 days for private consumers, 90 days
for public sector consumers).



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JIRAMA - INCOME STATEMENTS - ELECTRICITY SECTION (FMG millions)
1994        1995         1996        1997        1998         1999        2000         2001
OPERATING REVENUE
Sales                            105,762.0    179,855.0    225,924.0   247,610.0   267,740.0   290,227.0    311,801.0    375,547.0
Meter rents                        5,307.7      9,133.5     11,319.5    12,505.9    13,628.6    14,832.5     15,852.1    17,280.6
Cessions                           6,147.2     10,674.0     13,590.2    14,938.2    16,267.4    17,705.1     18,901.9    23,501.6
Other revenue                       116.2          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE            117,334.0    199,663.0    250,834.0   275,054.0   297,636.0   322,765.0    346,555.0    416,329.0
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries& Wages                   12,964.3     18,092.7    20,900.4    22,189.5    24,084.0    25,933.0     28,393.0     30,197.2
Gas oil                           20,754.7     34,566.7    38,732.5    41,432.5    45,016.9    49,041.8     53,875.5     59,148.3
Fuel oil                           3,924.8      8,035.4     9,212.2    10,073.2    10,928.5     11,777.7     12,562.8    13,489.6
Other charges                     21,991.5     30,180.6     34,456.8    34,787.5    37,710.8    40,745.2    44,142.2     47,076.0
59,635.2    90,875.4    103,302.0   108,483.0   117,740.0    127,498.0    138,974.0    149,911.0              1
Charged to capital                (2,482.9)    (1,113.7)    (2,809.5)    (3,423.8)    (6,964.0)    (7,384.5)    (5,015.9)    (1,091.9)          -j
57,152.3    89,761.7    100,492.0   105,059.0   110,776.0   120,113.0    133,958.0    148,819.0
Depreciation                      16,196.2     20,157.2     28,325.6    35,378.2    43,122.9    46,630.6     52,905.1    52,880.9
Taxes                               304.3       2,157.2     12,028.0    19,275.1    27,065.4    30,282.3    29,691.5     53,071.5
Provisions(net)                   23,563.6     16,157.0     4,369.2    (2,734.6)   (15,558.9)    2,616.5     2,331.8     (1,109.2)
TOT'AL OPERATING EXPENSES           97,216.4    128,233.0    145,215.0   156,978.0   165,406.0   199,643.0    218,886.0    253,662.0
OPERATING INCOME                    20,117.2     71,429.8    105,619.0   118,077.0   132,230.0    123,122.0    127,669.0    162,667.0
1iterest charged                   (23,372.9)    (30,576.5)   (32,598.6)   (31,989.0)   (30,059.4)   (26,596.4)   (23,230.8)   (17,633.9)
(3,255.7)    40,853.3    73,020.1    86,087.7   102,171.0    96,525.4    104,438.0    145,033.0
Interest received                   11,911.0     12,085.2     10,128.9    15,992.1    18,370.9    19,267.8     20,304.9    27,208.5
G.655.3    52,938.5     83,149.1   102,080.0   120,541.0    115,793.0    124,743.0    172,241.0
Non operating profit                   72.6        250.0        250.0       250.0       250.0        250.0       250.0        250.0    (D x
0
8,727.9    53,188.5     83,399.1   102,330.0   120,791.0    116,043.0    124,993.0    172,491.0
Exchange losses                    (28,366.0)   (44,512.0)   (55,270.9)   (58,767.2)   (54,749.1)   (37,690.0)   (39,198.5)   (40,511.0)    L
NET PROFIT                         (19,838.2)     8,676.5    28,128.1    43,562.6    66,042.4    78,353.3      85,794.7    131,980.0
Source: JIRAMA



- 79  -                                               Annex  5.1
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR                                Page 2 of 3
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JIRAMA - BALANCE SHEET - ELECTRICITY SECTION (FMG millions)
1994       1s99        1996        1997         1998           1999          2000         2001
ASSETS
Assets in operation                   262,493.6   292988.8    355,686.4   426.107 8   593,824 5      744,997.0      939,909 7   1,037,636 0
Accumulated depreaiabon               (80,939.6)  (101,096.8)  (129,422.5)  (164,800 6)   (207,923.5)  (254,554.1)    (307,459 3)   (360,340 1)
NETFIXEDASSETS                       181,554.0   191,892.0   226,264.0   261,307.0    385,901 0     490,442 9      632,450 4    677.295 8
Deferred charges                           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0            0 0            0.0          0 0
Work in progress                       39,292.8    39,878.9    80,739.6    93,167.7    104,909 1     166.042 7      154,373 6    162,685 4
Share issue expenses                       0.0     2,698.2     2,698.2     2,698 2      2.698 2        2,698 2       2,698 2      2.698 2
Exchange difference                   294,312.4   381,460 3    368,245.1   331,259 3    294,407 8    268,218 9     236.686 1     202.090 9
ProvisIon                           (36,398.1)  (54,318.1)   (58,376.9)   (54,763.3)   (38,302 1)  (39.970 8)    (41,340 1)    (38,916 4)
EXCHANGE DIFFERENCE NET               257,916.3   327,142.1    309,888.2   276,496.0    256,105.7    228,248 1      195,346 0    163.174 5
MISC INVESTMENT                         1,041.0    1,041.0      1,041.0    1,041.0      1,041.0        1,041 0        1,041 0      1,041 0
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH AND BANK                         105,6848    112,543.8   177,690.1   204,120.7    214,087.1     225,6096      302,316 3    468,9456
WATER DIVISION LOAN                    28,594 8        0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0            0 0           0 0          00 
RECEIVABLES OPERATIONS
Administration                      18,401.8    10,804.3     6,736.4    7,439.3      8,093 9        8,832 0        9,556 8     11.772 1
Private                             35,118.9    43,829.8    36,742.0    40,254.9    43,530.5       47,169.2       50,5968     60,5896
53,520.7   54,634.1    43,478.4    47,694.2     51,624.4       56,001.2      60,153 6     72,361 7
Provision                           (5,803.1)    (7,248.2)    (6,893.8)   (7.069.5)  (7,233.2)     (7,415.2)      (7,586 6)    (8,086 2)
47,717.6    47,385.9    36,5s4.6    40,624 7    44,391.1       48,586.0       52,567 0    64,275 5
RECEIVABLES OTHER
Administrabon                         240.0       240.0       240.0       240.0        240.0          240.0         240 0        240 0
Private                              8.597.7    6,597.7     6,597.7     6,597.7      6,597.7        6,597.7        6,597 7     6,597 7
TOT. RECEIV. OTHER                      6,837.8    6,837.8      6,837.8    6,837.8      6,837.8        6 837 8        6,837 8      6,837 8
TOTAL RECEIVABLE OPERATION             54,5554    54,223 7    43,422.4    47,462.5     51.228 9       55,423 8       59,404 8    71,113 3
Misc receivable                           92.4        92.4        92.4        92.4         92 4          92 4           92 4         92.4
Jirama subsidiairies                    2,702.1        0.0         0.0         0.0         0o0             0 0           00           00
Stocks and work in progress            32,722.0    13,755.9    18,063.0    26,028.8    52,586.6       96,5963       76,846.1     28,998.9
Provisions                           (4,86e.3)   (1,058.2)    (1,056.2)    (1,058.2)  (1,056.2)     (1,056.2)      (1,056 2)    (1,056.2)
27,855.7    12,699.7    17,006.8    24,972.6    51,530.4       95,540 1      75,789.9     27,942 7
Payment in advance                      4,178.3    4,178.3     4,178.3     4,178.3      4,178.3        4,178 3       4,178 3      4,178 3
TOTAL CURRENTASSETS                   223,663.4   183,737.8   242,389.9   280,826.4    321,117.1     380,844 1     441,781 6     572,272 2
TOTAL ASSETS                          703,467.5   746,190.1   843,001.0   915,536.3   1,071.772 0   1,269,317 0   1,427,691 0   1.579.167 0
LIABILITIES
Capital and reserves                   55,814.7   190,725.7   190,725.7   190,725.7    190,7257      190,725.7      190.725 7    190,7257
Retained eamings                      (63,302.7)   (83,140.8)   (74,484.3)   (46,336.2)  (3,773.5)    59,268.8      134.622 1    217,416.8
Result of year                        (19.838.2)   8,676.5    28,128,1    43,562e      66,042 4       78,353.3      85.7947      131,980.4
Own equity                            (27.32e.2)   11e,261.4   144,389.5   187,952.1    252,9945     328,347.7     411,1424     540,122.8
Provisions for cyclone                 5,109.2     5,709.2     8,374.0     7,077.4      7,815.9        8,581.8       9,3729      10,187.8
Subventions                           81,795.4    86,630.6    89,048.0    90,261.5     97,935 2      105,942.0     114,228 9    122,776.8
Govemment taxes                            0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         01             0.1            01           0.1
Board of Dir, guarantees                   0.6         0.8         0.8         0.6         0.6            0.6            06           0.6
EQUITYANDCAPITAL                      59,579.0   208,601.9   239,812.3   285,291.7    358,748.3      442,8722      534,744.9    673,088.1
Long term debt                       419.551.7   500,463.4   551,512.3   588,692.4    636,696.1      740,0993      804,232.8  . 793,865.2
Current portion                     (55,801.8)   (88.469,0)   (72,142.8)   (68,190,7)   (51,039.1)  (53,615 5)   (57,465.2)    (66.639.9)
363,949.8   433,994.4   479,389.5   500,501.7    585,657.0     686,483.7     746,767.4    727,225.3
CONSUMER DEPOSITS                        841.7       876,1       911,9       949.2       988.0         1,028.4       1,070 4      1.1141
STATE CURRENT ACCOUNT                 155,208.0        0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2            0 2            0.2          02
CURRENT LIABIUTIES
Accrued interests                      18,552.3    18,422.6    19,858.2    21,108.1    23,776.9       26,368.9      28,472 6     28,201.4
Shortterm loan                             0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0            0.0            00           0.0
Suppliers                             31,838.8     8,491.4     9,580.8    10,182.2     11,058.2       12,007.1      13,0982      14,2620
Others                                17,392.7     8,831.1    20,824.2    28,809.0     40,005.0       46,437.8      45,568.5     68,132 8
Received in advance                      503.4       503.4       503.4       503.4       503.4          503.4          503.4        503 4
Current liabilibes                     68,287.0    36,248.5    50,784.3    60,602.8    75,341.6       85,317.1      87,642 8    111,099 6
Current portion of LT. debt            55,601.8    66,469.0    72,142.8    68,190.7    51,039.1       53,615.5      57,485.2     66.639,9
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES             123,888.9   102,717.5   122 907.1   128,793.6    1286380.7     138,93286     145.10860    177,739.5
TOTAL CAPITAL & LIABILITIES          703,487.5   748,190.1   843 001.0   915 53683   1 071 772.0    1 269 317 0   1.427 891 0   1,579,167 0
Source JIRAMA



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JIRAMA - FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT - ELECTRICITY SECTION (FMG millions)
1994          1995          1996           1997          1998           1999           2000           2001
RESSOURCES
Profit before interest              20,117.2      71,429.8      105,619.0     118,077.0      132,230.0      123,122.0      127,669.0      162,667.0
Depreciation                      16,196.2      20,157.2       28,325.6      35,378.2      43,122.9        46,630.6       52,905.1      52,880.9
Provision net                     22,618.2       18,522.0       4,723.6       (2,910.3)    (15,722.7)       2,434.6        2,160.4      (1,608.8)
Adjust. on amortiz.                  (27.3)          0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
Intemal cash generation             58,904.2      110,109.0     138,668.0     150,545.0      159,6i0.0      172,187.0      182,735.0     213,939.0
Interest received                   11,911.0       12,085.2      10.128.9      15,992.1       18,370.9       19,267.8       20,304.9      27,208.5
Non operating income                    72.6         250.0         250.0          250.0         250.0          250.0          250.0          250.0
NET REVENUES                        70,887.8     122,444.0     149,047.0      166,787.0     178,251.0      191,705.0      203,290.0      241,397.0
MINUS
Exchange losses                   28,566.0      44,512.0       55,270.9      58,767.2       54,749.1       37,690.0       39,198.5      40,511.0
Interest charges                  23,319.5      30,294.1       32,131.0      31,370.4       29,440.8       25,977.8       22,612.2       17,633.9
Repaymentathistor. cost            2,631.4       10,765.7      10,985.6      11,850.4       11,511.9       10,821.5       11,729.2       14,209.6
Debt service                      54,516.9       85,571.7      98,387.5     101,988.0       95,701.8       74,489.3       73,539.9       72,354.4
MINUS
Var. require. work capit.          1,823.1      (14,746.0)    (21,009.9)      2,167.3       15,585.5       38,229.0      (18,094.8)     (59,595.5)                 0
(excluding cash and bank)
Dividend payable                       0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0        1,000.0        3,000.0        3,000.0       3,000.0
Other deductions                   1,823.1      (14,746.0)    (21,009.9)      2,167.3       16,585.5       41,229.0      (15,094.8)     (56,595.5)
SELF FINANCING                      14,547.8      51,618.5      71,669.3       62,631.5      65,963.8       75,986.5       144,845.0     225,638.0
INVESTMENT                          52,740.7      33,579.5      83,758.3      102,849.0     179,458.0      212,306.0       183,243.0     106,038.0
FUNDS REQUIREMENT                   38,193.0     (18,038.91      12,089.0      40,217.8     113,494.0      136,320.0       38,398.9     (119,600.0)
Govemment curr. acc.(net          37,877.7           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
Long term loan                    19,218.6       32,048.4      74,782.1      65,397.7      115,748.0      139,795.0      106,777.0       38,437.4
State deposits                         0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
Consumer deposits                      7.6          34.4          35.8           37.3          38.8           40.4           42.0           43.7
Consumer contributions             7,089.4        4,835.2       2,417.4       1,213.5        7,673.7        8,006.8        8,286.9        8,548.0
Govemment custom taxes                 0.0           0.1           0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
Exchan!e adjustment                2,548.8       (1,801.3)         0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
Ad,just-1, ianed eaming                0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0           X
Remis-on on water debt                0.0      (46,296.8)          0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0         L e
Var. deferred charges                  0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0         
CONTR'dUTION                      66,742.2      (11,179.9)     77,235.3      66,648.5      123,461.0      147,842.0      115,106.0       47,029.1
Variaton of cash & bank           28,549.1       6,859.0       65,146.2      26,430.6        9,966.4       11,522.4       76,706.7      166,629.0
CASH AND BANK                    105,685.0      112,544.0     177,690.0     204,121.0      214,087.0      225,610.0      302,316.0      468,946.0
Source: JIRAMA



- 81 -
Annex 5.2
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR PROJECTIONS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A. General
1.        JIRAMA maintains its accounts in accordance with Malagasy accounting codes
and regulations. Since JIRAMA operates under a concessional franchise its fixed assets are
classified into two categories; those belonging to the private domain (transferred to JIRAMA
from private companies) and those falling under a public property concessional agreement
(domaine conckd&) for which JIRAMA has no ownership rights. This distinction obliges
JIRAMA to use accounting principles and presentations which are in accordance with
Malagasy law, but at variance with those normally used in electricity utilities outside
francophone countries. In order to have a clearer picture of JIRAMA's recent past financial
performance and as far as possible, make a presentation in line with international utility
practice, the audited accounts for FYs 90-94 were re-stated without changing the basic results.
The forecast statements for FY 95-2000 are also presented in the revised format rather than
the format normally used by JIRAMA.
2.        The projections were prepared in current MG Francs. The rates assumed for
international and local inflation, as well as the average exchange used, are as follows:
l                         1 1995      1996     1997      199=    1999       2000
LocaL InfLation 1/          34.6      11.1      6.4      4.7       4.7       4.7
International Inflation 2/   2.6      2.6       2.6      2.6       2.6       2.6
| Average Exchange Rate   | 4350   | 4886   J 5191   | 5440       5526   | 5603
1/ World Bank estimates.
g/ World Sank OP 6.50, Annex B, May 1995.
B. Income Statements
3.        The projections for sales have been made on a case by case basis for each of the
"Special Medium Voltage Sales" (SMVS) clients, based on their respective production
planning over the next six years; SMVS represent the sales to either the five biggest MV
consumers, or to all clients consuming at least more than 10% of the energy demand;
electricity used to produce water is projected proportionately to the volume of water
produced, using the past trend, while other sales, either MV or LV, are assumed to follow the
demand growth calculated by JIRAMA, using a combination of aggregated (macroeconomic



- 82 -
Annex 5.2
Page 2 of 3
data) and desegregated (defined for each client) methods; this compares reasonably with what
has been experienced in the past. All these data were provided to the Wien Automatic System
Planning (WASP) program (a computer software used to rank electricity projects) to
determine the least cost expansion plan of JIRAMA, as well as to define the sharing out of
generation between hydro, thermal using fuel oil and thermal using gas oil.
4.         Tariffs were computed using the indexation formula for electricity tariffs piovided
in Decree No. 7800-92.
5. Operating Expenses:
(a)    The unit costs of fuel-oil and gas-oil are summarized in the table beiov;:
Projections for Gas Oil and Fuel Oil prices from 19%-2000
l            1  ~~~~1995     1996     1997      1998       1999       2000
|Fuel Oil (FMG/1)     443      494        541        592        646        699
| as O iL ( FMG/1I)   856      945       1030      1,115      1,201   |1,290
Source: JIRAMAA.
(b)    Labor costs were calculated to increase at the same rate as local inflation.
(c)    Maintenance and other costs were computed as follows: for generation, costs increase
proportionately with local inflation and growth in installed capacity; for distr-cution
and charges shared in common, costs increase with local inflation and growth in the
number of consumers.
(d)    The provision for bad debts has been maintained at 10% of private consumers'
receivables.
(e)    JIRAMA is obliged to make three depreciation/amortization charges in its accounts.
Assets belonging to the private domain are subject to industrial depreciation (3.3% for
conservation works. 33.3% for vehicles, 12.5% for material and tools, 10% for
installations, and 12.5% for others). Assets classified in the concessional agreement
category are subject to technical depreciation (2% for the Andakaleka and Namorana
hydro-plants and 5 % for other assets). Technical depreciation is not shown as a
deduction from the related gross fixed assets in the Balance Sheets but as a provision
for renewals against which are charged large items of plant renewals. The
concessional system furthermore permits JIRAMA to make an annual caducity
amortization charge (amortissement de caducit6) to cover the reconstitution of the
capital employed in the assets subject to the concessional agreement. For specific



- 83 -
Annex 5.2
Page 3 of 3
assets the computation of this charge takes into account the participation of third
parties in the original cost of the asset and the remaining life of the concession; for
other assets the charge is 6% of the value of the assets for the duration of the
concession. The annual caducity amortization charges are accumulated in the balance
sheet as a reserve and form Dart of JIRAMA's capital. Following a restatement of
the FY90-94 accounts, including the adjustment of fixed assets for large plant items
charged to the provision for plant renewals account in those years, the industrial and
technical depreciation charges were combined into one depreciation charge in the
financial statements given in Annex 5.1. The caducity amortization has been
considered as part of the annual surplus and as such appears in the Balance Sheets not
as a separate reserve but nevertheless as part of JIRAMA's capital.
C. Balance Sheets and Funds Flow Statements:
6.        Revaluation of Fixed Assets. Although JIRAMA is expected, under the proposed
project, to complete the revaluation of its fixed assets (para. 5.12(a) a revaluation has not
been taken into account in the projections.
7.        Borrowings. For the proposed project, borrowings include the proposed IDA
credit and related cofinancing. A schedule has been prepared on the basis of current lending
terms and tentative interests expressed by the financiers who are expected to participate in the
project.
8.        Restructur ng. The forecasts take into account the recommended restructuring
proposals set out in para. 5. 11.
9.        Worklng Capital.
(a)    Cash and Banks: the cash and banks items were computed to ensure that JIRAMA
was able to meet its cash operating expenses and local construction expenditures
required for the proposed project.
(b)    Receivables: as the result of collection mechanisms to be implemented under the
proposed project, receivables from Government were assumed to decrease from 180
to about 90 days sales by the end of 1995, Receivables from the private sector have
been reduced to 60 days sales.
(c)    Inventories: this item was computed to be at 60 days of fuel and gas oil, plus a
calculated allowance for spares and materials required for maintenance and
development needs.
(d)    Accounts Payable (Suppliers and Others): these were estimated at 3 months of fuel,
gas oil, lubricants and other operating expenses together with an estimate of the
payables for the local costs of the proposed project.



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JIRAMA - FINANCIAL INDICATORS - FY95 - FY2000
(ELECTRICITY SECTION)
(FMG million)
EYt                                                               95                96                 97 97                                                  209             2001
1. Current Ratio (b)                                                         1.8                2.0               2.2                2.5               2.7                3.0                3.2
2. Debt/Equity Ratio (c)                                                    68/32              67/33             64/36              62/38             61/39              58/42             52/48
3. Debt Service Coverage - times (d)                                          1.4               1.5                1.6                1.9               2.6               2.7                3.3                                 1
4.Contributiontolnvestment%(f)                                              91.0               98.0               51.0              40.0               40.0              87.0               174(h)
5. Average Collection Period (Days)
Public Sector                                                            90                 90                 90                90                 90                90                 90
Private Sector                                                           60                 60                 60                60                 60                60                 60
(a) Operating Expenses + Exchange Losses/Operating Revenue.
(b) Current Assets/Current Liabilities.
(c) LTD / LTD + Equity - (To be revised on conclusion of setdtement of Governmnent's current account balance).
(d) Operating Revenue + Net Non-operting Revenue - Operating Expenses excluding non-cash charges, interest and other charges in debt / aggregate of repayments, interest and other charges on debt.
(e) Cash Generation Available = Internal Cash Generation + Other Income + Interest Received - Debt Service  Variation in Working Capital (excluding cash) - Dividends.
(f) Cash Generation Available / Average Investment over three years (past, present and next years).
(g) Investment in FY 93 was 38,931 million.
(h) based on Investment in FY 2002 of FMG 100,000 million.                                                                                                                                                             -
0*



- 85 -
Annex 6.1
Page 1 of 11
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    As described in Chapter IV, the proposed project forms an integral part of JIRAMA's least cost
expansion plan. The cost-benefit analysis was first carried out on the plan as a whole and on each component
thereof to ensure that they are justified. Incremental capital costs, operation and maintenance costs, and
benefit streams are shown in page 3 of this annex. Assumptions underlying these figures are detailed below.
2.    Anticipated capital expenditures on generation, excluding Ambodiroka, (from the WASP III
generation planning model), transmission and distribution investments at financial prices are converted to
economic prices by: (i) expressing the import content at c.i.f prices; and (ii) applying the standard conversion
factor (SCF) of 0.85 to local costs.
3.    Incremental operation and maintenance costs are estimated at 2.5% of cumulative invest1nent costs
and adjusted using the SCF of 0.85.
4.    Fuel costs are based on the thermal generation requirements and JIRAMA's price prnjections of
petroleum products.
5.    Economic benefits associated with incremental electricity supply to consumer. are calculated using
(i) average tariff; and (ii) consumers' willingness to pay as proxies for benefits.
Willingness to Pay (WTP!
6.    Domestic Electricity Consumption. Although data on elasticity of demand for electricity is not
available at the present time, the average willingness to pay for all classes of consumers is most certainly
higher than the level of the current electricity tariff. For low-income household consumers, who are not
connected to the grid and who cannot afford to install private generating sets, the actual costs of lighting
through use of kerosene lamps and candles are higher than reflected by the current ta iff rate. The estimated
cost of using kerosene lamps and candles is currently about 841.22 FMG and 1 105.6' FMG/kWh equivalent
respectively. The weighted average cost of a kWh is 701.97 FMG.
Estimated Cost of Lighting in Madagascar using Kerosene Lamps and Candles
a. Kerosene Lamps
1. Cost of Kerosene                                          1,140 FMG/liter
2. Equivalent kWh per liter of kerosene                       3.4 kWh/liter
3. Ratio of conversion efficiency of kerosene                0.4
4. Equivalent cost of usable energy from kerosene = (1/2)/3   838.2 FMG/kWh
5. Capital cost of kerosene lamp                              1500 FMG
6. Capital annuity factor at 10% and 3-yr life               0.402
7. Equivalent capital cost over 200 kWh/year/lamp: (5*6)/200  3.02 FMG/kWh
8. Total cost of using kerosene for lighting (4+7)           841.22 FMG/kWh
b. Candles
1. Equivalent power per candle                               133.3 watts/hour
2. 1 kWh                                                     7.5 candles
3. Cost of a candle                                           150 FMG
4. Equivalent cost of a kWh                                   1105.65 FMG/kWh



- 86 -
Annex 6.1
Page 2 of 11
Based on field investigations, it has been estimated that only about 20% of households use kerosene
lamps for lighting. The remaining 80% use candles. The weighted average willingness to pay for low-
income household consumers is: (1 105.65*.8) + (841.22*.2) = 884.52 + 168.24 = 1052.76 FMG/kWh.
Minimum lighting requirements represent about 50% of total domestic electricity use. In the absence of
electricity supply, households would use candles and kerosene lamps. This portion is valued at the economic
cost of FMG 1052.76/kWh equivalent. The remainder of consumption is valued at a price declining to the
average tariff for low voltage consumers (FMG 569.9/kWh). Household budget data are hard to come by and
those availabie are generally outdated. It has however been estimated that on the basis of a specific
consumption of 10 kWh/month, the yearly electricity bill based on WTP of 1052.76 FMG/kWh would
represent S to 8% of the budget of an urban low income household.
7.    Non-Domestic Electricity Consumption. Willingness to pay for medium and low (other than
domestic) voltage consumers is assumed to be approximated by their respective average tariffs (weighted over
the three tariff zones).
8.    Weighted Average WTP. The weighted average willingness to pay for a kWh of incremental
electricity supply is derived as follows using the 1994 consumption mix:
Category               % of Consumption            WTP (FMG/kWh)
Medium Voltage                         54                         573
Low Voltage
Domestic                             27                       1052.76
Other low voltage                    19                         570
Total weighted                        100.0                     701.97
Results of the Analysis.
9.    The results of the economic cost/benefit analysis together with those of the sensitivity tests against (i)
a 15% increase in capital costs; (ii) a 40% increase in fuel costs; and (iii) lower sales growth of 20% per
annum are summarized in Table 1, below.
Table 1: Results of Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Tests
Using ayirage tariff as a benefit proxy                      Rate of Retun (%)
Base Case                                                    22
(a): 5% increase in investment costs                         19
(b) 40% increase in fuel costs                               21
(c) 20% drop in expected benefits                            15
Using WTP as a measure of benefits
Base Case                                                    31
(a) 15% increase in investment costs                         26
(b) 40% increase in fuel costs                               28
(c) 20% drop in expected benefits                            22



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RE1TURN ON THE INVESTMENT PROGRAM
1996      1997      1998       1999      2000      2001      2002-2026
COSTS (USS Million)
Capital Expenditures 1/                            2.22     11.18     38.56      31.43     18.12      2.12              1/
Operation & Maintenance                            0.05      0.28       1.10      1.77      2.16      2.20           2.20
Incremental Fuel Costs                             0.00      0.00       1.31      1.67      2.04      2.28           2.61
Total Incremental Costs                            2.26     11.47     40.97      34.87     22.32      6.60           4.81
-j1
BENEFITS (USS Million)
Incremental Demand Served (GWh) 2/                    0         0         49       188       212        241           241
Valuc of Incremental Demand Served 3/              0.00      0.00      5.39      20.68     23.32     26.51          26.51
NET BENEFITS                                      -2.26    -11.47    -35.58    -14.19        1.00     19.91         21.70
IRR: 22% (using average tariff as a proxy)
IRR:3 I% (using WTP as a measure of benefits)
I/ The distribution component is renewed every 15 years
2/ Obtained by simulating system operation with and without the program.
3/ Incremental demand served valued at USS0.1 1/kWh.                                                                                   >
Ox
o .
M -D



- 88 -
Annex 6.1
Page 4 of 11
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE COMPONENTS
INCLUDED IN THE INVESTMENT PROGRAM
These components are: (a) the rehabilitation of the Mandraka and Antelomita hydropower
stations and the extension of the transmission system; (b) the rehabilitation and extension of
thermal plants in secondarv centers; and (c) the rehabilitation and extension of the distribution
network.
1.     ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE REHABILITATION OF THE HYDROPOWER
STATIONS AND EXTENSION OF THE TRANSMISSION NETWORK.
A.    REHABILITATiON OF THE HYDROPOWER STATIONS
I.    The rehabilitation of the Mandraka and Antelomita hydropower stations forms an integral
part of JIRAMA's least cost expansion plan to meet the demand in the Antananarivo
Interconnected System (AIS). Incremental capital costs, operation and maintenance costs, and
benefit streams are shown in page 8 of this annex. Assumptions underlying these figures are
detailcd below.
2.     Anticipated capital expenditures on the rehabilitation of the Mandraka and Antelomita
hydropower stations are derived from the WASP generation planning model, converted to
economic prices by: (i) expressing the import content at c.i.f. prices; and (ii) applying the stardard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.85 to local costs.
3.    Incremental operation and maintenance costs are estimated at 2.5% of cumrnlative
investment costs and adjusted using a SCF of 0.85. Incremental fuel costs were evaluated using
JIRAMA's price projection of petroleum products.
4.     Incremental demand served has been derived by simulating the operatLon of the AIS with
and without the rehabilitation of the Mandraka and Antelornita hydropower stations and evaluated
at the average tariff for Zone I where the two hydropower stations are located (9 UScents/kWh).
5.     The results of the economic cost-benefit analysis together with those of the srnsitivity tests
are shown in page 8 of this Annex.
B.    EXTENSION OF THE TRANSMISSION NETWORK
1.    This extension concerns principally the interconnection of the Namorona hydropowver
station now used at a fraction of its capacity to supply Fianarantsoa to Manakara and Mananjary
on the east coast of Madagascar.



- 89 -
Annex 6.1
Page 5 of 11
2.  Four technical designs for interconnecting Namorona, Manakara and Manarjary were
investigated by JIRAMA taking into consideration the ease of operation, level of iosses, quality of
service and costs. It was found that the optimum layout would be a 57 km single cirl uit 66 kV
transmission line from Namorona to Irondro (a medium sized village). Manakara and Mananjary
would be linked to Irondro by 2 single circuit 36 kV lines of 99.5 and 55.4 km respecti% ely. Three
substations would be installed: one 66/36kV substation at Irondro and two substations of 36/5 kV
each at Manakara and Mananjary.
3.  Two alternative expansion programs to meet the projected demand (1996-2010) for tl
systems of Fianarantsoa, Manakara and Mananjary were compared: one without interconnection
and therefore assuming that the three systems would operate in isolation as they are at present; the
other assuming that the three systems are interconnected. The objective was to determine which of
the two expansion programs has the lowest present value of total system costs subject to reliability
criteria. The calculations were carried out by JIRAMA with the help of the Energy and Power
Evaluation Program (ENPEP),a computer model developed by the International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA).
4.  The main assumptions used in the calculations are the following:
a.   The demand projections are those shown in page 2 of Annex 2.2;
b.   Level of losses:
Isolated Operation
-  Fianarantsoa: the level of losses is expected to decrease from 17.1% in 1993 to 12%
in 1996 and remain at that level until 2010;
-  Manakara and Mananjary: the actual levels of losses of 5.5% and 6.4% respectively
are expected to continue unchanged until 2010;
Interconnection
-  5% transmission losses have been assumed throughout the planning period;
c.   The maximum capacity of the interconnection line is 2090 kW from Namorona to
Irondro, 1150 kW from Irondro to Manakara and 900 kW from Irondro to
Mananjary.
d.   Candidates for the expansion programs
Isolated Operation
For the systems of Manakara and Mananjary, which are entirely thermal, diesel set sizes
are determined taking into account the peak demand to be satisfied plus a reserve
margin of 25%.
For the Fianarantsoa system, which is essentially hydro, there are two candidates:
-  the rehabilitation of the Manandray hydropower station which is equiped with 2
groups (Ix250 kW and 1x350 kW); and
-  diesel sets.
Interconnection
The candidates are the interconnection line, Manandray hydro power station and
whatever diesel sets are necessary to meet the demand and satisfy the reliability
criteria.



- 90 -
Annex 6.1
Page 6 of 11
e.  Investment Costs
-  Interconnection: the total cost of the line was estimated at US$2.62 million (55% of
which is in foreign exchange). The construction of the line is expected to take
two years.
-  Hydropower project: the cost of the rehabilitation of the Manandray hydropower
station will cost an estimated US$1 million and take approximately two years to
complete.
-  Diesel sets: the construction/delivery period varies from few months to 2 years,
depending on the size of the set. The cost of a kW installed also varies with size
(from US$ 812/kW to US$ 911/kW)
f.   Operating Costs
-  Transmission Line: 0.5% of the total cost of the line;
-  Hydropower Stations: US$0.8 1/kW/month for Namorona and Manandray;
-  Diesel sets: There are fixed and variable costs. Both vary with the size of the set.
The range of these costs is given below:
Size              Fixed Costs                 Variable Costs
(kW)            US$/kW/Month                   US$/MWh
100-420           4.10-3.15                   12.5-11.00
1000              2.89                        10.30
1600-2000         2.50-2.00                    6.00-4.80
g.   Fuel Costs
Fuel prices are based on JIRAMA's projections. The costs of inland transportation from
Toamasina to Fianarantsoa, Manakara and Mananjary are 3.55, 2.89 and 2.64 US
cents per liter, respectively.
h.   Reliability Criteria
A Loss of Load Probability (LOLP) of 1 day/year (a probablity of 0.274%) was chosen
for the Fianarantsoa system with and without interconnection; A LOLP of 5
days/year (probability of 1.37%) was chosen for Manakara and Mananjary
operating in isolation.
i.   Cost of Unserved Energy
The cost of unserved energy was estimated at US$200/MWh.
Results of the economic analysis
The results of the least cost analysis are presented in page 9 of this Annex for Jic three
systems operated in isolation and for the interconnection, at discount rates vai ying
between 10 and 20%. The rate of return of the interconnection and the resUts of the
sensitivity tests are also shown on the same page.
II. REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION OF THERMAL PLANTS
1. The same methodology used for the hydro component has also been use :J in the calculation of
the IRR of the thermal component, namely: a computer simulation of systems' operations with and
without the rehabilitation and extension of the thermal power plants. These thermal power plants
are mostly small gas-oil or fuel-oil fired power plants.



- 91 -
Annex 6.1
Page 7 of 1 1
2. Anticipated capital expenditures are derived from the WASP III generation planning model and
converted to economic prices by: (i) expressing the import content at c.i.f pfices; and (ii) applying
the standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.85 to local costs.
3. Incremental operation and maintenance costs are estimated at 4% of cumulative investment
costs and adjusted using the SCF of 0.85.
4. Incremental fuel costs are valued using JIRAMA's price projections of petroleum products.
5. The average selling price used as a proxy for benefits is a weighted average of Zone 2 and
Zone 3 average tariffs. The weights used (24% for Zone 2 and 76% for Zone 3) correspond to the
share of investments in thermal rehabilitation and extension of each zone:
(621*.24)+(845*.76)=791.24 FMG/kWh (16 UScents/kWh). The incremental demand served was
determined by simulating systems operation with and without the rehabilitation and extension of
thermal plants.
6. The results of the IRR calculations and of the sensitivity tests are given on page 10 of this
Annex.
1. REHAILITATION AND EXTENSION OF THE DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
1. Anticipated capital expenditures on the distribution component, excluding taxes, duties and
price contingencies are converted to economic prices by: (i) expressing the import content at c.i.f.
prices; and (ii) applying the standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0,85 to local costs.
2. Incremental operation and maintenance costs are estimated at 1.5% of cumulative investmnent
costs and adjusted using the SCF of 0.85.
3. The cost of the energy supplied to the distribution system is obtained by multiplying the
incremental demand at the medium voltage level by the marginal cost at this level. Since the
proposed distribution network will, to a great extent, substitute the aging and poorly adapted
existing network, it has been asumed that the new network will carry a load of 80 Gwh during its
first three years of operation and 200 Gwh per year thereafter (or half the sales in the Antananarivo
interconnected system).
4. Incremental sales obtained through new consumers connections and loss reduction are valued
at JIRAMA's average low-voltage tariff of 570 FMG/kWh (Uscents 11.6/kWh)..
5. The results of the IRR calculations and of the sensitivity tests are given on page 11 of this
Annex.



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OFTHE REHAB. OF THE HYDROPOWER STATIONS
1996      1997      1998      1999      2000       2001      2002      2003-2026
COSTS (USS Million)
Capital Expenditures                             0.58      -          8.87      15.42      5.88      0.39
Operation & Maintenance                          0.01       0.01      0.20      0.53       0.65      0.66      0.66           0.66
Total Incremental Costs                          0.59       0.01      9.07      15.95      6.53      1.05      0.66           0.66
BENEFITS (USSS Million)
Incremental Demand Served (GWh) 1/                   -         -          -       132       148       169        169           169
ValueofIncrementalDemandServed2/                 0.00       0.00      0.00     11.88      13.32     15.21     15.21          15.21
NET BENEFITS                                     -0.59     -0.01     -9.07      -4.07      6.79     14.16     14.55          14.55
MRR: 57% (using average tariff as a proxy)
IRR:97% (using WTP as a measure of benefits)
1/ Obtained by simulating system operation with and without the hydropower component of the program.
2/ Incremental demand served valued at USSO.09/kWh.
RESULTS OF THE SENSITIVITY TESTS
IRR (%)                                I PR()
(using average tariff)                 (using WTP)                                            >
(a) 25% increase in investment costs                         44                                     76                                           oQ M
(b) 25% drop in expected benefits                            40                                     70                                            mx
(c) 25% increase in invest. costs combined with (b)          31                                     54                                            c



- 93 -
Annex 6.1
Page 9 of I I
MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INTERCONNECTION NAMORONA-MANAKARA-MANANJARY
PRESENT VALUE OF SYSTEM(S) COSTS (US$ Million)
Discount Rate (%)
10         12        14          16          18          20
A. BASE CASE
Isolated Systems                 6.51        5.76        5.13      4.59       4.14        3.75
Interconnection                  5.87        5.42        5         4.64        4.3        4
B. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
1. 20% drop in fuel prices
Isolated Systems                6.06       5.37         4.79      4.29       3.87        3.5
Interconnection                 5.73       5.29         4.89      4.52       4.19        3.89
2. 20% increase in invest. costs
Isolated Systems                6.52       5.76         5.13      4.59       4.14        3.75
Interconnection                 6.31       5.84         5.4       5          4.65        4.33
EQUALIZING DISCOUNT RATE (EDR) 1%1
A. BASE CASE                                        16
B. SENSTIVITY ANALYSIS
1. 20% drop in fuel prices                      13
2. 20% increase in line invest. costs            11.5
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (%)
With JIRAMA's average tariff for Zone I taken as a proxy for econmic benefits, the economic
rate of return is estimated at 28.7%.
The results of the sensitivity tests are the following:
IRR (%)
(a) 25% increase in investment costs                              24.1
(b) 25% drop in expected sales                                    20.7
(c) 25% increase in operating (include. fuel) costs               26.6



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN OF THE REHAB. AND EXTENSION OF THERMAL POWER PLANTS
1996      1997       1998      1999       2000      2001       2002      2003-2010
COSTS (US$ Million)
Capital Expenditures                                                  10.12       0.39      0.39       0.10          -
Operation & Maintenance                           0.00       0.00      0.34       0.36      0.37       0.37      0.37           0.37
Incremental Fuel Costs                                       0.00      1.31       1.67      2.04       2.28      2.61           2.61
Total Incremental Costs                           0.00       0.00     11.78       2.41      2.80       2.75      2.98           2.98
BENEFITS (US$ Million)
Incremental Demand Served (GWh) 1/                                       19        23         27         28        35             35
Value of Incremental Demand Served 2/                                  3.04       3.68      4.32       4.48       5.60          5.60
NET BENEFITS                                      0.00       0.00     -8.74       1.27       1.52      1.73       2.62          2.62
IRR: 23% (using average tariff as a proxy)
IRR: 16% (using WTP as a measure of benefits)
I/ Obtained by simulating system operation with and without the thermal power plamts component of the program.
2/ Incremental demand served valued at US$0.16/kWh.
RESULTS OF THE SENSITIVITY TESTS
IRR (%)                  IRR (%)
(using average tariff)      (using WTP)
(a) 15% increase in investment costs                              19                       13                                                       Id >
(b) 20% increase in fuel costs                                    18                       10                                                       (D x
(c) 10% decrease in expected demand                               17                       10                                                       o o
CI0-
I-



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN OF THE REHAB. AND EXTENSION OF THE DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
1996     1997       1998      1999      2000      2001     2002-2017
COSTS (USS Million)
Capital Expenditures                             0.39      5.98      14.46     14.46     10.51      0.39
Operation & Maintenance 1/                       0.00      0.08       0.27      0.45      0.58      0.59          0.59
Incremental Supply Costs 2/                                0.00       6.40      6.40      6.40     16.00         16.00
Total Incremental Costs                          0.39      6.06     21.13      21.31     17.49     16.97         16.59
BENEFITS (USS Million)
Incremental Demand Served (GWh) 3/                                     80        80        80       200           200                                  t
Value of Incremental Demand Served 4/                      0.00      9.28       9.28      9.28     23.20         23.20
NET BENEFITS                                     -0.39     -6.06    -11.85    -12.03     -8.21      6.23          6.61
IRR: 12% (using the average tariff as a proxy for economic benefits)
IRR: 24% (using WTP as a measure for benefits)
I/ Estimated at 1.5% of cumulative investments
2/ Marginal cost at medium voltage level estimated at US$0.09
3/ Losses on the distribution system have been estimated at 5% throughout
4/ Incremental demand served valued at USS0.11 6/kWh.
RESULTS OF THE SENSITIVITY TESTS
IRR(%)                         IRR(%)                                   (t X
(using aver. tariff)           (using WTP)                  o1
(a) 15% increase in investment costs                                   10                            20                                     o e.
(b) 15% increase in supply costs                                        6                             18
(c) 15% decrease in expected demard                                    9.5                          19.6



MADAGASCAR
ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF WOODFUELS PROGRAMS
1.    Economic Evaluation of Improved Charcoal Stove Programs
This Annex seeks to evaluate improved stoves programmes. The size of the city and the percentage of households using charcoal
determine the maximum improved stove program investments. In this analysis, an arbitrary figure of an internal rate of return (IRR) of
20% is chosen to determine these investments. Costs include all equipment (including price difference between improved and traditional
stoves), training, monitoring, operational, and study costs to execute the improved stoves program. Benefits are charcoal savings,
conservatively valued at its market price.
Figure 7 below shows the maximum investment costs that are allowed for improved charcoal stove programs in Madagascar to still
obtain an IRR over 20%. The size of the city and its total annual charcoal consumption, and the economic costs of charcoal, determine
the maximum program costs. For Mahajanga which consumes 10,000 t of charcoal, the total costs should not exceed $150,000.
Maximum Investments Having an IRR > 20%
Improved Charcoal Stove Programs
soo 
400  1
400
CL
300 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~0
0
~~~100          200200100                  300 
Charcoal Consum ptlon for City (t/yr)
Figure 7: Maxirnurn I-estments for Stove Prograrns



ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF IMPROVED STOVE PROGRAMS
ASSUMPTIONS
Charcoal consumption                   1000 tonnes/year
Value of charcoal consumption           140 M.FMG/year
Value of charcoal consumption           78 k. US$/year
Population of city                      12,700
of which                               800/. use charcoal
Charcoal savings                        20%
Value                                   15.6 k.US$/yr
Cost difference FA-FT                   4 S/stove
CASHFLOW OF COSTS AND BENEFITS
% dissemination of FE    0.05       0.15      0.25       0.35        0.45         0.45        0.45        0.45         0.45        0.45
85       254        423        592          761         761         761          761         761         761
Year I       2         3          4            5           6           7            8           9           10
Investmnents         7.5        3.8      0.9         0.5         0.5
Cost FE            0.3        1.0       1.7        2.4         3.0          3.0         3.0         3.0          3.0         3.0
Savings            0.8        2.3       3.9        5.4         7.0          7.0         7.0         7.0          7.0         7.0
Net             -7.1       -2.4       1.3        2.6          3.5         4.0         4.0         4.0          4.0         4.0
NPV                 5.k. US$
IR R                 21.8%__           _ _   __  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ __                _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _   _ _ _ _  _
OQ D
(D 
x
0 .



2.     Economic Analysis of the Action Plan for Mahajanga
This annex presents an overview of the economic analysis of the action plan for Mahajanga. Costs are all investments (equipment &
services) required to implement this action plan, including costs to develop the activities and to carry out certain studies. Benefits are the
quantities of wood saved from the natural forest. Wood savings are valued at market prices, which constitute a lower bound to economic
benefits.
COSTS OF ACTION PROGRAM FOR MAHAJANGA
Costs & benefits ('000 US$) year  1996     1997      1998    1999      2000    2001       2002      2003     2004    2005    2006       2007
Management plan                    388       179
Implementation (1)                          316       287      168        25      25        25        25       25       25       25        25
Sustainable use of mangroves (2)    45       30
Improved stoves                     77       79         7        8        10       10       16        16        19      20       20        21
Agro-residues (4)                   80       70       150        ==_                                   == 
Misc. 10%                           59       67        44       18         3       4         4         4         4       4        5         5
Total investments & costs          649      741       488      194        38      39        45        45       49       49       50        51
Total savings (d, 20$/t             74      218       394      614      814    1050       1224      1328     1438    1604    1682        1764
-575      -523      -94     420       776    1011       1179     1283      1389    1555    1632       1713
NPV                 gi=  12%   3,184.12
IRR                                 42%
(1)    Management system is self financing; recurrent cost of $25,000/yr are considered here due to efficiencies;
(2)    After start of activities, no further investment costs are required,
(3)    Includes incremental costs borne by households for improved stoves (3 year lifetime),
(4)    No recurrent costs after operationalizing of plant;
(D(
0.
f-h IM;
4-



WOODSAVINGS ('000 t)
Sustainable production/NRM
- natural forest                        1.2      2.5     5.2      6.8     8.3      9.3    10.3    11.4    11.7    12.1   12.5
- savannah                              2.1      4.4     9.1    11.7    14.5    16.2    18.0    19.8    20.4    21.0   21.6
- mangroves                                      0.8     1.6      4.1     4.2      4.4      1.8     4.6      9.5     9.8   10.1
Improved stoves                  3.7     7.5    11.6    14.0    16.4    16.9    26.1    26.9    32.4    33.3    34.3   35.4
Agro-residues                                     0.4     0.8      1.6      1.7     8.7    18.0    18.5    19.0    19.6   20.2
LPG, kerosene            _                                                             _             _
Total wood savings               3.7    10.9    19.7    30.7    40.7    45.7    64.7    75.0    86.7    94.1    96.9   99.8
Total in terms of t kerosene     0.89    2.67    4.84    7.52      9.96    11.19    15.85    18.36   21.23    23.03    23.73   24.44
3.     Wood Supply by Origin: Scenarios with and without the Action Plan
Population                130000  133900  137917  142055  146316   150706  155227   159884  164680  169621   174709  179950
Wood use ('000 t) without   73.0    75.2    77.4    79.8    82.2       84.6    87.2      89.8    92.5    95.2       98.1    101.0
action plan
of which natural forest    12.0    12.4    12.7    13.1     13.5      13.9    14.3      14.8    15.2    15.7    16.1        16.6
of which mangrove        3.7      3.8       3.9     4.0      4.1      4.2      4.4      4.5      4.6      4.8      4.9      5.1
of which savannah       20.9    21.5      22.1    22.8    23.5       24.2    24.9      25.6    26.4    27.2       28.0    28.9
of which farmers        36.5    37.6      38.7    39.9    41.1       42.3    43.6      44.9    46.2    47.6    49.1        50.5
Wood use with action plan   69.4    67.7    65.4    65.0    64.1       66.0    52.3      44.9    41.6    42.9    44.1        45.5
Sustainable production
- national forest         0.0      1.2      2.5      5.2      6.8      8.3      9.3     10.3     11.4     11.7     12.1    12.5
- savannah                0.0      2.1      4.4      9.1     11.7     14.5    16.2      18.0    19.8    20.4       21.0    21.6
- mangrove                0.0      0.0      0.8      1.6      4.1      4.2      4.4      1.8      4.6      9.5      9.8    10.1
- from farmers           36.5    35.6      34.4    34.2    33.7       34.7    27.5      23.6    21.9    22.6       23.2    23.9
balance (= unsustainable    32.9    28.7    23.3    14.8       7.8      4.2    -5.1      -8.8    -16.1    -21.4    -22.0   -22.7
supply from natural
resources)                                                            _        _
Source: Bank staff.                                                                                                                      4>x
0o






*44                                  46'                                  *8'                                   S,D'
MADAGASCAR
ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEMS
AND FOREST COVER
.v... .s'.o  TRANSMISSION LINES                                                              ANI5IRANANA
138 LV, DOUBLE CIRCUIT
-----    63 kV
35 nr2V 2. kv0                                                            5QR
M&AJOR ELECTRICITY CENTERS                                  '-_V                       OVOHIAA1N
*     OTHER ELECTRICITY CENTERS                                 0IASOA
H HYDRO POWER STATIONS                                             AN r S T   -  ANA N   A N A
FORESTS
RIVERS                                                     -         ' \                  OsAMA
--- -  FARITANY 8OUNDARIES                          '  '0 d-..rc
0 ~   ~          ~          ~          ~         '
-                 f..o 1rlrls    
0                          ,
It                                                      K                                                                     '  -, MM*NAll*I;A. f.0_I 
F- ~        ~        ' 
20-                                                                                                                                         20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/ h\R224~Y c, ,,on c I                          ' \ O    t;  )  ;0 -/    O  o sEtI 52
18 fTC]o TI (1                                                    ,          I          O         C-- A          ^
5                   .A.,s,d,    2AI-N
/ASHravAH  O),,,-                                   . .  /j-
MoI ).        ()ofmo   -tO                    (         *- 5to~ OAMT
20                     0                                 d- o  b  b. -                                20
21~~~~~~~ 22 i  Vo                   o  foa         O\            t       v              odvr                -f2M!
\  'Ullxl~~-^w TAfO51f I's Ioi po  IV    I'A' 
MO2nMfll ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 5DO-D0 O~E  d bdi
;)  5         0      ;, f I7     I IUAHAftA/
'   IHnnr ~  ~       ~      ~      ~      ~          Ov b   Ovrfr.7
0   ?~~~~~~~~~~~~1
, A j ~~~..                                '             -, ] OrlO0
O~~~ O0.,                                               AfHDN
rtflAero~~~~~~   A   .Ofirftso _ e    Swf  d Io/ 2r
4 MA,SNNSAA.*,,nO 0***o*,i* 
Ampeof^sO ~ ~~                                                        No, IYo.,6r                                         1
0b4.O.ETEIS
-r 06-
I                                  ,412  p
012A120122A51 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~









IMAGING
Report No:       15086 MAG
Type: SAR



