                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                                 Report No: 37163

                           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                          (PPFI-P8050 PPFI-P8051 IDA-28440 IDA-2844A)

                                               ON A

                                              CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$46 MILLION

                                       TO THE REPUBLIC of

                                         MADAGASCAR

                                             FOR AN

                           ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                         September 27, 2006




Energy Sector
Country Department 8
Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective September 1, 2006)

                         Currency Unit = Malagasy Ariary (MGA)
                                US$ 1 = MGA 2139.66

                               FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1   -    December 1




                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



ADER      Agence de Développement de l'Electrification Rurale (Agency for Rural
          Electrification)
AFD       Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
BADEA     Banque arabe pour le développement économique de l'Afrique (Arab
          Bank for Economic Development in Africa)
EIB       European Investment Bank
FNE       Fond National de l' Electricite (Rural Electrification Fund)
GOM       Government of Madagascar
IDA       International Development Association
JIRAMA    Jiro Sy Rano Malagasy
MEM       Ministry of Energy and Mines
MTR       Mid-Term Review
ORE       Organisme Regulateur du secteur de l' Electricite (Electricity Sector
          Regulator)
PWSRRP    Power/Water Sectors Recovery and Restructuring Project
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
RE        Rural Electrification
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SOE       State Owned Enterprise




                        Vice President:     Gobind T. Nankani
                    Country Director:       James Bond
                     Sector Manager:        S. Vijay Iyer
                   Task Team Leader:        Erik Fernstrom
                   Program Assistant:       Lily Wong

                                       MADAGASCAR
                             Energy Sector Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8 Suggested JIRAMA Outcome Indicators                                      31
Annex 9 Map IBRD 25661                                                           33

Project ID: P001533                                                  Project Name: MG-Energy Sec Dev Prj (FY96)
Team Leader: Erik Magnus Fernstrom                                   TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 26, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: MG-Energy Sec Dev Prj (FY96)                             L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P8050; PPFI-P8051;
                                                                                                     IDA-28440; IDA-2844A
   Country/Department: MADAGASCAR                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Power (75%); Renewable energy (17%); District heating and energy efficiency services (8%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other urban development (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Regulation and competition policy (P); Infrastructure services for
                            private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/31/1988                                     Effective:                           08/28/1996
     Appraisal: 05/14/1993                                         MTR:                             04/30/1999
      Approval: 04/16/1996                                      Closing:                            12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF MADAGASCAR/MEM/JIRAMA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Calisto Madavo
Country Director:               James Bond                                     Andrew Rogerson
Sector Manager:                 S. Vijay Iyer                                  Iain Thornton Christie
Team Leader at ICR:             Erik Fernstrom                                 Angel Baide
ICR Primary Author:             Sunil Mathrani and Erik
                                Fernstrom


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objectives of the project as stated in the SAR dated March 1996, were: (i) Improving Madagascar's
prospects for sustainable growth by ensuring an adequate supply of electricity both for businesses and
households, including increased access to electricity for peri-urban and rural population; (ii) Creating the
institutional foundation in the power sub-sector to increase economic and management efficiency and
attract private investment; and (iii) promoting greater efficiency in the overall production and consumption
of energy, thereby helping to mitigate the adverse environmental impact of woodfuel use. These objectives
were relevant at the time of appraisal and remains so today. During the past decade, poverty reduction
through higher economic growth has been a consistent theme of both government policy and the Bank's
assistance to Madagascar. Achieving accelerated growth requires that there be an adequate provision of
basic infrastructure such as electricity supply. These remain high priorities for bank assistance as reflected
in the Africa Action Plan.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The Project Development Objectives remained unchanged despite the long implementation period
(1996-2005), which was characterized by profound changes to the political and economic systems of
Madagascar. With hindsight, it appears that the project should have been restructured at the time of the
mid-term review in mid-1999. This was not done. Nor was the resumption of Bank operations in
mid-2002 after the hiatus due to the political crisis used as an opportunity to restructure or cancel the
project and transfer the unused IDA funds to other more urgent priorities.

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of multiple subcomponents in four broad areas, three of which dealt exclusively with
electric power, while the fourth addressed problems of wood energy and energy efficiency by end users.
The first (A), and by far the largest set of components (US$118 million), covered most of JIRAMA's
investment program, including rehabilitation and extension of generation, transmission and distribution
facilities. The second set (B - US$8 million), was a rural electrification program. The third area (C- US$3
million) covered studies and capacity building to support a program of reforms in the power subsector,
including the establishment of a new legal and regulatory framework that would allow private sector
participation, as well as the restructuring of JIRAMA. The fourth set of components (D) was a
country-wide program (US$3 million) to promote energy efficiency, with emphasis on woodfuel production
and consumption.

Specifically, Part A comprised: (i) rehabilitation of four hydropower stations, Antelomita, Mandraka,
Mamandona and Volobé, refurbishment of electromechanical equipment and components, procurement of
30 diesel generating units; (ii) construction of a transmission line from the Namorona hydropower plant to
the cities of Manakara and Mananjary; (iii) rehabilitation of several 20-35 kV transmission lines between
generation sites and distribution areas; (iv) construction of a new transmission and distribution system in
and around the capital and the connection of 30,000 new customers.

Part B consisted of: (i) the preparation of a Rural Electrification Master Plan; and (ii) investments in rural
electrification schemes as defined by the master plan. A total of 15,000 new connections were expected to
be made.




                                                       - 2 -

Part C comprised financing of consultant services, training etc. to support the Government's program to
reform the power sub-sector; and (i) put in place a new legal and regulatory framework; (ii) set up a
regulatory body; (iii) restructure and convert JIRAMA into a joint stock company subject to company law.

Part D envisaged: (i) energy conservation within charcoal production and use; (ii) a pilot program for
sustainable supply of wood fuels to the Mahajanga region, including the preparation of a Master Plan for
sustainable management of the region's forest resources; (iii) implementation of selected recommendations
from the energy audits in industry (carried out under the preceding Energy I project), consulting services to
assist MEM in exploring options to promote energy efficiency in transport and the feasibility of creating an
entity to promote energy efficiency country-wide.

3.4 Revised Components:

Part A (US$92 million): IDA funding was reallocated to install 82 new diesel units (totaling 19.6 MW)
instead of the 30 units (for about 5 MW) initially envisaged. The construction of a transmission line from
the hydropower plant Namorona to the harbor cities of Manakara and Mananjary was not implemented
because AFD slashed its assistance to JIRAMA in 2000, at which point IDA and EIB funds were
committed to other activities. Following the scaling back of the RE investments, IDA funds were
reassigned to JIRAMA in the last year of implementation in order to permit it to purchase urgent essential
spare parts.

Part B (US$1.5 million): The extent of IDA participation in the rural electrification program was
considerably reduced. The program had not been defined at the time of appraisal and a new approach to
implementation of RE programs came to be adopted following the completion of the master plan. This
entailed the design and creation of a new agency exclusively responsible for rural electrification (Agence de
Developpement de l'Electrification Rurale, ADER) and a RE Fund to channel subsidies to rural
electrification programs (Fond National de l'Electricité, FNE). The lengthy period of design, preparation
and setting up of these bodies meant that the bulk of the initially allocated IDA funds (US$4 million) could
not be fully used and were transferred to JIRAMA, to be used, in part to finance the purchase of spares and
cover the cost of the private management contract.

Part C (US$6 million): In spite of the amendments to the legal framework and preparations for the
privatization of JIRAMA during 1997-2001, the latter never happened. In 2002, the new government
decided not to privatize JIRAMA. Following a diagnostic audit, GoM agreed with IDA to opt for a
two-year Management Contract that came into operation in early 2005, with financing provided from
reductions in the allocation to Part B of the project.

Part D (US$3 million): The program for improving the efficiency of energy use in the industrial and
transportation sectors was dropped. The enterprises that were targeted at the time of project design were
later put on GoM's list of SOEs to be privatized and it was felt that investments in energy conservation
should be left to the new management.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The quality at entry of the project is rated as unsatisfactory. First, it was excessively complex and
over-ambitious for a country that had only recently emerged from a heavily state-dominated economic and
political system and with a weak capacity to implement far-reaching sector reforms that proved taxing even
in more developed countries. The Bank also appears to have misread the real degree of GOM ownership
for policy reforms in the electricity sector. At no stage does GoM appear to have given an explicit



                                                      - 3 -

undertaking to privatize JIRAMA, which became a bone of contention for several years between the Bank
and GoM. Nor did the short GoM statement of sectoral policy annexed to the SAR give any clear
indication of the long-term vision of GoM's preferred institutional setup.

The total project cost amounted to US$133 million, but the IDA portion was only 35%, while the rest of
the financing plan was not yet firmly in place at the time of Board approval. Yet achievement of the
project objective of improving the supply of electricity depended heavily on components to be funded by
other cofinanciers, whose lending was uncertain and in practice was inordinately delayed and/or reduced in
scope (due to GoM reluctance to restructure JIRAMA). The need for additional generation capacity was
not appreciated during appraisal (1993-1994), but this realization emerged within the first year of
implementation (1997). Unfortunately it was not acted upon (see section on Bank performance for
explanation). The project gave insufficient attention to capacity building of MEM, despite the evident need
and challenge of implementing far-reaching institutional reforms in the power sector. Implementation
arrangements for the RE component were undefined at appraisal, at which point the creation of a
specialized RE agency had not even been mooted. The component for energy efficiency improvements in
industry and transport was insufficiently defined and there was no capacity in MEM to implement it. The
woodfuels component was underfunded and did not build sufficiently on achievements under the previous
Bank project. Inappropriate financial covenants were imposed on JIRAMA. Project risks (such as the
impact on the IDA-funded transmission and distribution components of a lack of generation capacity) were
considerably underestimated and/or not identified.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project largely failed to meet its physical objectives of `ensuring an adequate supply of electricity both
for businesses and households', despite the satisfactory (but delayed) implementation of the project's
miscellaneous investments by JIRAMA. On the other hand, there was considerable progress in terms of
introducing new sector policies and creating institutions. A new electricity law was passed, (that inter alia,
abolished JIRAMA's monopoly and opened the door to private investment in generation), a sector
regulatory body and a rural electrification agency were set up and the utility, JIRAMA, put under a
management contract with a foreign operator. These do provide a `foundation for increased economic and
management efficiency' [objective (ii)] in JIRAMA for the coming years. In particular, the IDA-funded
management contract was a significant breakthrough after years of tortuous discussions between GoM and
the donor community on how to reform the sector. It has already brought positive results. Better
generation plant dispatching, optimization of plant operations, enhanced revenue collection and cost control
measures, have all contributed to improved cash flow and reduced financial losses. JIRAMA's financial
recovery from a situation of near-bankruptcy is now under way.

Nevertheless, an adequate supply of electricity has not been achieved. Least-cost system planning did not
translate into timely new generation projects, with the result that high-cost ad hoc arrangements had to be
made to lease diesel generators to cover the generation capacity deficit. Despite this, a power supply
shortfall emerged in the last two years of the project, with associated load shedding that damaged
Madagascar's economic growth and garment export sector. Over-reliance on expensive diesel plants
combined with governmental inaction on tariffs plunged JIRAMA into near-bankruptcy in 2005. Although
170,000 additional households have obtained access to electricity in total since 1998, overall electrification
levels remain very low, only 15% on average, nationwide. However, this is a significant improvement on
the 8% rate of household access to electricity prior to the project in 1994. The service to consumers
remains unreliable and of poor quality. The progress towards the third objective - greater efficiency in the



                                                     - 4 -

production and consumption of energy - was rather limited and unlikely to be sustained due to the lack of
any scaled up, follow-on operation. Hence the overall outcome of the project is considered to be
unsatisfactory. Much greater impact on power supply and sector finances could have been achieved if the
project had been restructured and the funds diverted to addressing the generation shortfall.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Part A:

The project financed a diverse set of subprojects for JIRAMA's system comprising generation plant,
network rehabilitation and reinforcement, distribution extensions, tools, specialized equipment and vehicles.
While worthwhile and justified, these subprojects were not executed in an optimal manner. In particular,
the IDA-funded portions were carried out in isolation from those of other cofinanciers and the broader
context was overlooked. The IDA-funded physical investments under the project carried out by JIRAMA
were largely completed by 2002, at which point the EIB and AFD components were still in the early stages
of implementation. The benefits to Madagascar would have been substantially greater if there had been
closer donor coordination and the IDA funds reallocated to cover the most urgent priorities when it became
apparent that cofinanciers had cutback and/or delayed their own interventions which were essential for the
full benefits of the IDA-funded component to be obtained. However, it must be recognized that the
reluctance of the other donors to proceed was largely due to their wish to put pressure on GoM to continue
with the stalled restructuring of JIRAMA.

The four hydro plants were rehabilitated under EIB financing after a delay of three to six years. This
excessive delay can be attributed to factors relating to JIRAMA, EIB and the political crisis in 2002, which
totally disrupted the project for more than six months. Specifically IDA funded 82 diesel generating units
of various sizes totaling nearly 20 MW of additional capacity for installation in JIRAMA's small, non-grid
centers at a cost of about US$6.2 million. In addition, spares were purchased and rehabilitation carried out
of six larger diesel-powered plants. The rehabilitation and/or reinforcement of eight transmission lines (as
against five envisaged in the SAR) was satisfactorily undertaken. Miscellaneous distribution works were
carried on in several urban centers involving upgrading of 5.5 kV lines to 20 kV, construction of new
substations, and replacement of transformers. Over 35,000 new customers connections were carried out,
including 6,000 with prepayment meters. Several isolated diesel stations were interconnected with
JIRAMA's network, thereby replacing diesel with hydro-based power, 69 unconnected villages along the
route of these interconnections were also linked to the network at the same time. These works were carried
out satisfactorily, but the full economic benefits from them depend upon a solution to JIRAMA's supply
shortfall.

Part B:

Extension of access in rural areas was heavily delayed and undertaken on a greatly reduced scale, due to
the time required first to carry out the RE master plan (which should have been undertaken before
appraisal, using the PPF), and then to design, set up, staff and equip ADER, the new RE agency and Fund
(including operating procedures). This had not been envisaged at the time of appraisal, as it had been
expected that this component would be directly implemented by a RE cell in the Ministry of Energy, but the
original approach was abandoned at the MTR. The result in terms of increased access is not satisfactory
(about 3,000 rural connections), although it should be noted that the SAR did not specify any quantitative
target for connections to be made. However, the creation and operationalizing of ADER, which has been
fully functional since mid-2004, (with IDA financial support) is a significant step in the right direction and



                                                      - 5 -

provides the basis for future RE programs. A small levy was added to JIRAMA consumer bills in 2005, in
order to generate resources for the RE Fund. Unfortunately, as a side effect of the importance given by
GoM and donors to first addressing the sector's major institutional and financial problems in the past two
years, rural electrification has not been given prominence.

Part C:

The first major step in reforming the power sector took place in 1999, with the passage of a new electricity
law (drafted with legal assistance funded under the Credit) that inter alia, abolished JIRAMA's monopoly
and created a regulatory body, ORE. This opened the door to private investment in generation (for sale to
JIRAMA), as well as to the creation of new generation and distribution enterprises outside JIRAMA's
current operating areas. These legal and institutional reforms were a necessary precondition for any real
sectoral reforms and the outcome is satisfactory, although it was delayed by several years compared to the
timetable envisaged in the SAR, (which was unduly optimistic). The four-year extension of the closing
date was largely attributable to the slow progress in sector reforms, the pursuit of which was felt to require
a funding vehicle to cover the cost of advisory services and studies to underpin reforms.

Even though the electricity law was passed in 1999, the regulator is still a fledgling institution as it has
been operational only since 2004. The detailed administrative decrees laying out its responsibilities,
functions, organizational structure, procedures etc. took an inordinately long time to be drafted and
approved by GoM. Initial start up costs and staff training etc. were funded by the project. ORE is financed
by means of an annual fee paid by all licenced operators in the sector. As stated in the GoM contribution
to this ICR (Section 9), ORE has already demonstrated its worth in helping to steer through major tariff
increases in 2005-2006. It played a useful role as an `honest broker' between the government, the utility
and consumers in the process that brought JIRAMA's tariffs into line with its cost structure by approving
three substantial tariff hikes in the past 18 months. It is also responsible for supervising the performance
of the JIRAMA management contractor on behalf of GoM. However, it will still need external support in
regulatory capacity building in the coming years.

JIRAMA's restructuring and internal organization were studied during the initial years of the project and
steps were taken to separate water from electricity operations and accounts. Thereafter (2000-2001) a
privatization strategy was formulated with help from consultants, but GoM was reluctant to proceed. No
action was taken on this issue during the 2002 political turmoil in Madagascar. In late 2002, the new
government agreed to carry out an independent management audit of JIRAMA and to seek a management
contractor for JIRAMA. Subsequently in 2004 GoM announced that it would not sell off JIRAMA's
assets. It took over 18 months to put in place the current, 2-year international management contract
(effective April 1, 2005), which is likely to be replaced in late 2007 by an `affermage' (O & M) contract
that will be put out to tender with assistance from IFC. After the loss of several years in infructuous
discussions between the Bank and GoM regarding JIRAMA's privatization, the management contract can
be viewed as a satisfactory interim outcome that is addressing JIRAMA's internal efficiency and
performance, pending the adoption of a longer-term solution under the recently approved Power/Water
Sector Recovery and Restructuring Project. The progress on sector reform also contributed to a renewed
interest from the donor community to assist, which was manifested during the January 2006 donor
conference by new commitments of US$120 million to the sector.

Part D:

A Master Plan was prepared for the provision of charcoal to the city of Mahajanga. It included a detailed
action plan for the sustainable exploitation of surrounding forest including coastal mangroves, the


                                                      - 6 -

necessary legal framework and the extension of the program to other areas. The implementation of the plan
(2000-2002), involved: (a) the creation of 20 local community associations to rationally exploit the forests
for charcoal production in a sustainable way; (b) training of charcoal workers in efficient production
techniques as well as in manufacture of more economical cooking stoves; (c) manufacture and distribution
of efficient charcoal stoves (exceeding 50% combustion efficiency as against 15% for the traditional
models). In addition a program to disseminate better stoves was undertaken in 16 towns in three southern
provinces, which resulted in 50,000 such stoves being sold to households. Training of artisans to make
such stoves locally was also carried out. The greater fuel efficiency of the improved woodstoves permits
households to reduce their monthly expenditures on wood by FMG 6000-17,000 (US$3 - US$8). The
outcome of this component is satisfactory as it had a positive effect on incomes both of stove producers and
consumers, as well as on the environment by reducing the rate of deforestation and cutting CO2 emissions.
However, more geographically widespread and lasting results could have been obtained if the woodfuels
component had been extended after the events of 2002.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic rate of return on JIRAMA's 1996-2001 investment program as estimated at the time of
appraisal was 22%, using average tariffs of USc11/kWh. JIRAMA was expected to invest about US$104
million over a six-year period to 2001 (or an average of US$17 million/year). Due to the delays in
implementation, and the cutbacks in funding, the outcome was far different: JIRAMA managed to invest
only US$88 million over the nine years from 1997-2005, or about US$10 million/year on average. The
ex-post economic analysis is based on these latter investments. Using the current average tariff of
USc13/kWh to value the benefits, the EIRR is estimated to be approximately 6.7%. The tariff represents a
minimum value of project benefits and was used in the analysis as there is no recent estimate of consumer
surplus or willingness to pay for electricity. The principal reason for the low EIRR is the high cost of
diesel fuel in recent years and the fact that about a third of all incremental demand served by JIRAMA had
to be generated using diesel, the cost of which is only partially met by the current average tariff. Details of
the calculations and the underlying assumptions are given in Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The SAR does not present an estimate of the FIRR for the project as whole, or for the individual project
components. However, the SAR contained financial analysis of JIRAMA, including forecasts up to 2001.
The analysis assumed that the operating profitability of the company would improve significantly over the
course of the project. The SAR describes the financial forecasts as "conservative". However, in reality,
the financial situation of JIRAMA deteriorated sharply over the course of the Project. According to the
SAR forecast, JIRAMA was supposed to achieve at the end of the project (expected at the time to be 2001)
a return on capital employed (ROCE) of 16.1% which can be considered as quite high for a
capital-intensive power utility. However, the actual financial results of JIRAMA for the year 2001 show a
ROCE of 4.3%. This level of return on assets is low, and clearly below the cost of capital of JIRAMA.
As a result of this prolonged situation of a rate of return on assets significantly below the costs of
financing, JIRAMA suffered from increasing losses over the course of the project. In 2001, the rate of
return on equity (ROE) was -17.5% against +19.6% forecasted in the SAR.

Delays in the financial restructuring process that was envisioned in the SAR played some part in this
deterioration of JIRAMA's finances. However low and declining operating profitability was the major
factor and can be attributed to significant increases in operating costs. Most of the assumptions that
supported the SAR financial forecasts are not clearly spelt out in the document, preventing a detailed
analysis of the differences between forecasts and actual results. However, it is clear that a discrepancy of



                                                       - 7 -

this magnitude cannot be explained only by the failure of the GOM to adjust tariffs as planned, especially
as up to 2001, the tariff indexation mechanisms were more or less respected. JIRAMA's operating
profitability before 2002 was already far below expectations and deteriorating.

The assumptions used for the SAR financial analysis were too optimistic regarding the ability of JIRAMA
to improve its operational performance, and to control its costs. Personnel costs increased significantly
over the course of the project as a share of total revenue instead of decreasing as forecasted. The SAR
forecasts also assumed that total electricity losses (technical and non technical) would be reduced
significantly over the course of the project. In fact, the previous trend of deterioration persisted and losses
reached 22.7% in 2001. Other operating expenses were also largely underestimated. The most significant
underestimation relates to fuel costs which represented more than 40% of total electricity revenues of
JIRAMA in 2001 instead of a forecast of 17.4% in the SAR. Personnel costs actually represented 17.7%
of revenues in 2001 instead of a forecast of 7.3% in the SAR. The situation obviously became much worse
after 2001 given the increase in oil prices. The serious underestimations in the SAR forecasts is the result
of several factors, notably: (i) the failure of donors other than the World Bank to finance much needed
rehabilitation and extension works in hydroelectric facilities; (ii) a stronger than expected increase in
demand for electricity; and (iii) an increase in oil prices from 2000 onwards, that could not be predicted at
the time of project preparation.
Public sector payment arrears to JIRAMA remained unacceptably high and deteriorated throughout the
project period. At the end of 2001, accounts receivables from the public sector represented 43 months of
revenue, against an already unsatisfactory 31 months four years earlier. On the other hand, revenue
collection from private accounts improved up to the year 2000, at the end of which accounts receivables
represented less than 2.5 months of revenues.

Initially JIRAMA was able to meet the IDA covenant relating to its 30% ICG contribution to the
investment program because the investments were both delayed and reduced in scale. However from 2001
onwards, it could not comply with this requirement. While the self-financing ratio is frequently used as a
covenant in Bank financed projects in the energy sector, the case in point illustrates its shortcomings: the
client can remain in compliance by reducing and delaying investments with sometimes disastrous
consequences a few years later. In the case of Madagascar, when the covenant regarding self-financing
was eventually breached by JIRAMA in 2001, the problems created by past under-investments had become
extremely difficult to address given: (i) the long lead times for most investments in additional generation or
transmission; (ii) the deterioration of JIRAMA's finances made worse by the extra costs incurred to
procure power in an emergency.

With hindsight, a financial covenant which would have directly targeted an indicator of operating
profitability, would have been more relevant and might have prompted an earlier reaction to the decline in
JIRAMA's profitability.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

While the improvements in the sector's legal and institutional framework achieved under the project are
significant, he project had only a modest overall ID impact for the following reasons: (i) the passage of the
new electricity law is a necessary but not sufficient condition for the operation of a liberalized electricity
market with an independent regulator and a transparent tariff setting mechanism; (ii) the newly created
sector institutions, ORE and ADER, are still in the early stages of operation and have yet to acquire all the
necessary expertise to play their roles effectively; and (iii) although the JIRAMA management contract now
offers the highest potential to reform the internal workings of the company after numerous failed attempts
during the past, there is some uncertainty as to the prospects that a long-term private operator will take



                                                       - 8 -

over and run JIRAMA under an `affermage' contract.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

This project began life in 1996 and ended in December 2005, four years later than envisaged in the SAR.
The Credit was extended four times in order to pursue institutional reforms after the change of government
in 2002. A number of factors had a negative impact on the project and caused delays and changes to the
initial design.

(i) Poor donor coordination and major delays in finalization of cofinancing: There were four financiers
(WB, EIB, AFD, BADEA), for the project. No firm commitments had been made by the other financiers at
the time the IDA credit was signed. Nor did the cofinanciers agree on a common approach; both EIB and
AFD held up processing their assistance pending a GoM decision on restructuring of JIRAMA, while IDA
continued implementation. Funds from the other donors only began to flow in 2001, in what was to have
been the final year of the IDA implementation period. Worse, at a late stage when reallocations of
components between donors was no longer possible, AFD drastically reduced its overall assistance from
US$28 million to US$4 million, with serious consequences on the rest of the interlinked program.

(ii) Due to the political crisis in 2002, implementation came to a standstill during 6 months of strikes and
physical blockade of the capital.

(iii) The decision to opt for the creation of an entirely new rural electrification agency, ADER and new
funding approach to RE, (with full Bank support), considerably delayed and eventually led to a greatly
reduced Rural Electrification program.

(iv) The excessive Bank focus on the privatization of JIRAMA between 1997-2001, took attention away
from other aspects of the project and distracted attention from other priorities, such as the need to
restructure the project at the MTR to deal with the financing gap left by the other donors.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

(i) Reluctance to agree on a reform strategy for JIRAMA: This issue was dragged out for nearly four years
without a decision being taken by GoM. It led to considerable delays to the other parts of the program as
well as giving the AFD grounds to withdraw from its funding commitments, with adverse consequences on
other project components as well as on the overall power supply in Madagascar.

(ii) Tariff freeze: During a four period 2001-2005, GoM refused to allow tariff increases, despite high
inflation and a depreciating local currency. The consequences for JIRAMA's financial situation were
grave and it ran out of credit from banks and oil suppliers in mid-2005, with the result that it had to shut
down its generators due to lack of money to pay for fuel. The ensuing bailout of JIRAMA is likely to cost
GoM in excess of US$50 million in 2005-2006.

(iii) GoM was extremely slow to act upon the legislative decision taken in 1999 to create a sector regulator;

(iv) Rather than opting for competitive tendering, GoM entered into directly negotiated, unfavorable rental
contracts for diesel generators that aggravated JIRAMA's financial crisis.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:



                                                      - 9 -

(i) JIRAMA, which had responsibility for demand forecasting and power system expansion planning did
not take timely and appropriate action to address the generation capacity shortfall or alert the authorities of
the risk of outages.

(ii) Even though generation rehabilitation was severely delayed (due to donor reluctance to proceed),
JIRAMA continued its electrification programs and added 170,000 (beween 1998 and 2004) new
customers without having sufficient capacity and with generation costs that exceeded revenue earned on
sales (due to the tariff freeze). Every sold kWh worsened the company's finances. Ultimately outages
were unavoidable in 2005, with considerable damage to the economy as well as to the image of JIRAMA.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost is difficult to estimate with precision, due to the changes in components and the long
delays in implementation. It is estimated that at end-2005 the total cost was US$98 million taking account
of disbursements by other donors, GoM and JIRAMA, compared with the appraisal estimated of US$132
million. The initial IDA credit amount was SDR 31.8 million, of which SDR 29.7 million was finally
disbursed at the time of Credit closure. JIRAMA accounted for SDR 22.6 million of the IDA
disbursements. The unspent Credit balance of SDR 2.1 million was canceled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the grid investments carried out under the project is likely, given that JIRAMA has a
reasonable track record in maintenance. The fact that there is now a management contractor running the
utility also increases the prospects of sustainability. However, financial sustainability is uncertain.
Despite major tariff increases in 2005-2006 which have raised average tariffs by 92% to about
USc13/kWh, JIRAMA's financial situation remains precarious due to its poor generation mix and
vulnerability to unfavorable oil price changes. Maintenance was squeezed to the absolute minimum during
recent years and there is a backlog to be addressed under the recently approved follow-on PWSRR project
(Cr. 42230-MG). The effects are evident with 20 out of the 82 generator sets procured under the project
currently out of service due to lack of maintenance and spare parts.

The institutional reforms in the sector are showing good signs of taking root. After a consultative process
with a broad cross section of stakeholders GoM has opted to seek proposals for operating JIRAMA under a
long-term `affermage' (O & M) contract when the current Management contract ends in 2007. As
indicated by the recent massive tariff increases, the present Government's commitment to restoring
JIRAMA's financial solvency is promising. The progress could however be reversed in the absence of
continued government support to the sector for the years to come. The sustainability of long-term sector
viability is therefore uncertain.

The woodfuels component of the project is unlikely to be sustainable as there has been no follow-on
operation since it was finished in 2001. At that stage, results were encouraging, but needed broader
dissemination across the country and mechanisms for ensuring that the production and marketing of
improved stoves was not dependent upon state-led initiatives. The schemes for community management of
wood resources in the Mahajanga area are vulnerable to reversal in the absence of explicit public support
and the extension of such schemes to cover the majority of areas supplying wood to Mahajanga.




                                                       - 10 -

Overall sustainability of the project is therefore considered to be unlikely.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The subsequent IDA project (PWSRRP) approved in July 2006, is the vehicle for continuing Bank support
to the sector. It includes measures (with accompanying Credit covenants) for the introduction of a tariff
indexation formula and the recruitment of a private operator to take over JIRAMA from mid/late 2007.
IFC has been appointed as GOM's investment adviser and is leading the process of hiring a private partner
to manage JIRAMA. An IDA guarantee is also being considered as further support to help make
JIRAMA's O & M contract appealing to prospective operators by mitigating those critical sovereign and
political risks which have kept private operators and investors away from the power sector in Madagascar.

The project did not adequately address weak corporate governance in JIRAMA, including non-transparent
and non-competitive contracting, abuse of privileges by staff, lax management and poor customer service.
These problems have now been sufficiently exposed to public scrutiny and the transfer of JIRAMA to a
private operator will serve to keep a check on costs, improve revenue collection and inculcate higher
standards of service. Transparency and accountability are also expected to be enhanced.

Indicators of JIRAMA's overall performance, their baseline values and targets for the coming years were
agreed during negotiations of the PWSRR Project. These indicators are given in Annex 8.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The design and appraisal of the project were deficient, as discussed earlier in Section 3.5 (quality at entry).
For these reasons, Bank performance prior to Board presentation is rated as unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

It is unsurprising to find that there were four task managers during a project that had a life of 10 years, but
this did not help rectify the project's shortcomings, especially as three of the four TMs were involved only
after the mid-term review (April 1999). Although the project was supervised regularly with missions by
the TM every six to nine months, sufficient resources do not appear to have been devoted to supervision,
particularly in the earlier years of implementation. The project was highly supervision intensive and not
only was there no staff assigned in the local office to deal with energy, but the team at headquarters also
lacked the right skill mix at crucial moment. Supervision missions generally did not include experts in
finance, legal matters or wood energy.

The need for additional generation capacity was recognized early on (by the supervision mission of late
1997), but the Bank was unwilling to finance new generation and proposed assistance to attract IPPs
instead. This was consistent with the prevailing philosophy in the Bank at the time, and the Bank argued
that new generation projects (including the addition of a third unit in an existing power plant) should be left
to the private sector. Yet it did not make sense for the Bank to go on funding transmission reinforcements
and distribution system extensions in the face of a production bottleneck. The MTR was a missed
opportunity to restructure the project, in part due to neglect of the `big picture' ­ the supply/demand
balance, as the reform agenda (particularly the Bank's insistence that GoM take steps to privatize
JIRAMA), dominated the dialog with GoM/JIRAMA to the detriment of the country's power supply.



                                                     - 11 -

Although the supervision ratings were recorded as unsatisfactory immediately after the MTR, no warning
letter appears to have been sent to GoM spelling out the risk of a suspension of disbursements if action was
not taken to comply with covenants and improve implementation.

Nor did the Bank resort to available remedies when later GoM, faced with a generation crisis, opted for
non-transparent, high-cost negotiated leasing/rental arrangements for additional diesel generators. Bank
objections should have been raised on the grounds of the damage to JIRAMA's finances resulting from
these contracts. The Bank also tacitly went along with GoM's failure to raise tariffs during the four-years
from 2001-2005, which ultimately obliged GOM to step in and bail out JIRAMA when it was unable to
pay its fuel bills and had to resort to load shedding.

The quality of supervision improved greatly in the last three years of the project, but by that stage, the
physical investments had already been done and the remaining credit balance was insufficient to address
JIRAMA's generation gap. The decision to keep extending the credit can be criticized, but with hindsight it
appears to have paid off. The breakthroughs in terms of institutional issues achieved in 2003-2005 would
probably have been hard to arrive at in the absence of an ongoing project to provide the vehicle for policy
discussions with GoM. The readiness of other donors to re-engage in the sector demonstrates the credibility
of the current reform program and it is unlikely that Madagascar could have mobilized such a degree of
donor support if the Bank's supervision efforts had been less proactive and effective in consensus building.
It is somewhat arbitrary to assign a single rating to the quality of supervision stretching over a decade and
with four TMs. Supervision was unsatisfactory from 1997-2002 and satisfactory thereafter.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The project was too ambitious and complex, insufficiently prepared before implementation; supervision
was inadequate and remedial action was not taken early on. For these reasons, the Bank's overall
performance is rated unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The investment components were adequately prepared by JIRAMA, which was fully implicated in project
design and preparation. Other aspects, such as policy reforms that were directly in the hands of GoM
suffered from weak Borrower capacity and over-reliance on work of outsiders, with inevitable problems of
insufficient `ownership'. The lack of a clear GoM statement or `roadmap' for the institutional model it
wished to adopt for the sector at the time of project approval was a clear shortcoming as it left the door
open to lengthy debates between GoM and the donors stretching over the next several years. Borrower
performance in project preparation is therefore rated as unsatisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government's performance has both positive and negative aspects. On the one hand, it steered the
necessary sector legislation through parliament, set up ORE and ADER and successfully achieved a broad
consensus among stakeholders on a long-term solution for JIRAMA's management. On the other hand, it
was responsible for a four-year freeze in JIRAMA's tariffs, that brought the utility to the brink of
bankruptcy and necessitated a costly bailout that stretched the national budget in 2005-2006. The load
shedding in 2005 that was a direct consequence of the tariff freeze also damaged the prospects for
attracting foreign investment in industry and slowed GDP growth by 0.5%. The overall performance of
GoM is considered on balance to have been unsatisfactory.



                                                     - 12 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The quality of JIRAMA's physical implementation of the project is satisfactory. However, it can be
questioned whether JIRAMA should have continued to connect new customers, in the face of insufficient
generation and transmission capacity. JIRAMA was insufficiently proactive in giving early warnings of the
likelihood of load shedding and did not flag the severity of its financial situation that was largely the result
of the tariff freeze. Little was done during the pre-management contract period to improve its operational
and commercial performance, such as loss reduction, cost cutting and better customer service. The
physical implementation performance of JIRAMA is judged to be satisfactory, but the management
performance was unsatisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Ten years have passed since the project was approved. During that time, the performance of the sector first
declined and of late has started to improve, but is still far from satisfactory. Many factors and
organizations have contributed to the poor outcome, but unsatisfactory Borrower performance has its share
of the responsibility.

8. Lessons Learned


Many of the lessons from this project are just illustrations of well-known errors, but nevertheless they bear
restating:

Design and Project Preparations

·        Project designs should limit complexity to what is within the capability of the Borrower. The
project did not take account of MEM's weakness and its capability to implement the far-reaching sector
reforms attempted under the project.

·        Project preparation should be undertaken prior to appraisal. The implementation and financing
arrangements for project's RE component were undefined at the time the Credit was approved.

·        There are no synergies between electric utility rehabilitation/reform projects and woodfuel
efficiency projects. The implementing agencies differ and within the Bank the skills required to prepare and
supervise such projects are also different. There are no savings to be made in grouping them together. In a
budget-constrained environment, the woodfuel component is likely to suffer, as these are often fairly
resource intensive.

·        In projects with multiple cofinanciers, the financing plan for the bulk of the required resources
should be firmly in place prior to Board presentation. Two thirds of the necessary funding for the project
was tentative at the time of Credit approval.

·        Borrower ownership of sector reforms is essential and should be clearly demonstrated by the time
of Credit negotiations. GoM had never given an explicit undertaking to the Bank that it was ready to
unbundle and sell JIRAMA's assets.




                                                     - 13 -

Project Implementation

·        Complex sector reform projects are supervision intensive and require the Bank to staff teams with
the necessary range of skills to cover the gamut of institutional, financial, legal and technical issues. The
project was generally supervised by only one or two staff visiting from HQ, and they often lacked the right
skills to deal with the issues that confronted them.

·        Mid-term reviews should be used to address alldesign and implementation problems and there
should be greater openness on the part of staff to undertake major project restructuring if circumstances so
dictate. The MTR failed to diagnose and remedy the fundamental problems of the project.

·        Frequent changes of task managers is deleterious to successful project implementation. The
borrower's interests were not best served by the fact that between 1999 and 2003 there were three changes
of Bank task managers for the project.

·        The Bank should be more willing to exercise available legal remedies when faced with serious
non-compliance on financial covenants, particularly as regards tariff adjustments. The post-supervision
management letters sent to GoM appear to have never raised the prospect of a suspension of disbursements.

·        A condition for the sustainable expansion of electricity services is the financial viability of the
service provider. The operating profitability of the utility should be monitored closely during supervision,
and any problems addressed early: A rate of return covenant could be more useful than the covenant
requiring a minimum self-financing of investments, which in the case of the present project was not
breached until the problems of JIRAMA had become very serious.



Sector Reform

·        The Bank's insistence on privatization as the only remedy for poor electric utility performance was
counterproductive and ultimately proved to be erroneous. At least three years were lost in an attempt to
convince a reluctant borrower to proceed with JIRAMA's privatization. In the post-Enron/California
outages context, foreign private interest in acquiring assets in developing countries evaporated and GoM
would have failed to find any interested buyers for JIRAMA, had it taken the Bank's advice and tried to
sell JIRAMA.



Generation Expansion

·        In its policy dialogue with the client, the Bank should emphasize the need to follow a disciplined
approach towards investments based on least-cost expansion plan, rather than having to make ad hoc sub
optimal investments necessitated by the need to deal with the risk of load shedding.

·        Experience has repeatedly shown that donor financing of small diesel generators for electricity
production often proves unsustainable even with low oil prices, due to the high costs associated with
operation and maintenance of such plant. In the case of Madagascar, with a significant untapped
hydroelectric potential, the choice of diesel generators in remote locations with difficult access for fuel and
maintenance, seems particularly inappropriate.




                                                      - 14 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Borrower's Contribution to the ICR (in French)


                                     REPOBLIKAN'I MADAGASIKARA
                                   Tanindrazana - Fahafahana - Fandrosoana

                                       Ministere de l'Energie et des Mines

                    Projet de Developpement du Secteur Energie ---- PDSE - ENERGIE II

                                  Rapport d'achevement au 31 décembre 2005


                                                     Résumé


1.       Le PDSE regroupait des programmes d'investissements et d'expérimentations et des programmes à
caractère institutionnel. Les premiers ont été globalement bien réalisés, tandis que les seconds ont tardé à se
mettre en place et ont eu des résultats très mitigés.

-        Les investissements et projets expérimentaux prévus dans le PAD et dans l'Accord de crédit
(parties A, B et D), parfois modifiés en cours de réalisation d'un commun accord entre la Banque Mondiale
et le Gouvernement de Madagascar, ont été pour la plupart complètement réalisés. La partie financée par
IDA du programme d'investissements prioritaires de la JIRAMA (partie A) a été réalisée entièrement, dans
les délais initialement prévus, et sans retard de décaissement de la contrepartie JIRAMA. Le programme
d'électrification rurale (partie B) a été initié par le MEM avec deux années de retard sur le calendrier prévu.
La phase d'étude d'un schéma directeur d'électrification rurale a été pleinement achevée. Mais, la décision
en cours de PDSE de créer une Agence autonome d'électrification rurale, l'ADER, et un Fonds spécifique,
le FNE, a beaucoup retardé la réalisation des projets d'électrification rurale identifiés dans le schéma
directeur. L'Accord de crédit du PDSE prévoyait en effet qu'une Cellule d'électrification rurale serait créée
au sein de la DEN et qu'elle pourrait acquérir et mettre en oeuvre directement les équipements d'ER sur
financement IDA, dès qu'une Agence de régulation du secteur serait opérationnelle. Le retard dans la mise
en place de l'Organisme Régulateur du secteur de l'Electricité (ORE) a empêché les décaissements
programmés pour l'acquisition d'équipements d'électrification rurale jusqu'à la mi-2004. Par ailleurs,
l'ADER n'était pas autorisée à utiliser les fonds IDA pour subventionner les investissements d'ER réalisés
par des entreprises privées autorisées. Il aurait fallu un avenant à l'Accord de crédit, pour convenir de ce
changement de procédure, c'est à dire un passage à l'Assemblée Nationale pour approuver une requête, ce
qui, dans le contexte national, n'a pas été possible. Les programmes d'amélioration énergétique de la partie
D, à savoir le PPIM et le PNEBE, ont également atteint leurs objectifs physiques, sans dépassement de
durée ni de budget (au contraire). Mais ils ont souffert d'un important retard de lancement, de
respectivement 2 et 3 ans. Le lancement tardif des parties B et D par la Direction de l'Energie résulte de ce
que, au début du PDSE, les responsables malgaches comme ceux aussi de la Banque Mondiale attachaient
plus d'attention aux difficultés du secteur électrique de la JIRAMA qu'à celles du secteur bois énergie.

-        Quand aux réformes institutionnelles de la partie C, les objectifs de l'Accord de crédit n'ont pas été



                                                        - 15 -

atteints. Un projet à forte composante institutionnelle comme celui là a toujours des interactions avec la
politique de l'Etat. Pendant les neuf années du PDSE, la situation politique de Madagascar a profondément
changé, ce qui a eu des incidences importantes sur les choix d'options de restructuration de la JIRAMA. Le
Gouvernement a clairement annoncé au début 2003 que les actifs de la JIRAMA ne seraient pas privatisés.
Cette décision est intervenue alors que le Gouvernement et les bailleurs de fonds du PDSE constataient, sur
la scène internationale, l'échec de la stratégie de privatisation appliquée à des entreprises publique
d'électrification dans des pays africains. Les objectifs initiaux de cette activité ont donc été profondément
redéfinis en cours de réalisation du PDSE, en concertation avec la Banque Mondiale. Avec le retard de
mise en oeuvre du contrat de gestion, le PDSE s'achève sans que la JIRAMA n'ait été restructurée, et, en ce
sens, on peut dire que le PDSE n'a pas atteint ses objectifs institutionnels. D'autant que, pendant ce temps,
la situation générale et financière de l'entreprise s'est fortement dégradée, pour des raisons sur lesquelles
nous reviendrons ci-dessous.

2.       Les investissements prioritaires de la JIRAMA financés par IDA ont été achevés en conformité
avec les prévisions quantitatives et qualitatives, et pourtant, les effets escomptés du PDSE ne sont pas au
rendez vous. Trois raisons principales :

-        Dans sa conception, le PDSE a souffert d'une sous-évaluation de l'évolution des besoins d'énergie
électrique et de la nécessité d'accroître significativement la capacité de production. Lorsque le PAD a été
préparé en 1995, la capacité de production était très excédentaire : la puissance totale installée était de 216
MW dont 105 MW hydroélectriques alors que la pointe de demande ne dépassait pas les 110 MW. La
préoccupation du PAD s'est donc focalisée sur la remise en état des centrales existantes. Le bénéfice
attendu du PDSE était de "substituer l'électricité d'origine hydraulique à l'électricité thermique plus
coûteuse en allongeant la durée de vie des centrales hydroélectriques existantes et en raccordant des
centres, actuellement servis par de l'électricité thermique, aux réseaux excédentaires en énergie d'origine
hydraulique". De plus, l'analyse de la demande d'énergie était fondée sur le Projet d'expansion au moindre
coût étudié en 1989. La sous-évaluation des consommations d'électricité explique en partie qu'on ait
sous-estimé les besoins d'accroître la capacité de production nette. Cette erreur d'appréciation a été
identifiée dès la fin de 1997 : "La mission a pris connaissance de la nécessité urgente d'initier des actions
pour l'augmentation de la capacité de production dans le système interconnecté d'Antananarivo ainsi
que dans d'autres centres" (Aide mémoire de la mission Banque Mondiale de septembre 1997, points 5, 6
et 7). Le déficit de l'offre d'énergie a encore été clairement évalué dans l'étude du PEMC de
SOGREAH/EDF finalisée en 2001. Mais, dans la logique de privatisation du secteur, l'accroissement de la
capacité de production devait être le fait des IPP. La mission de septembre 1997 proposait donc
logiquement de financer "... une assistance technique au processus de préqualification et d'appel d'offres
pour la mise en oeuvre d'une première opération de production privée (IPP)...". Les mauvaises
conditions dans lesquelles les IPP ont été mobilisées ont amplifié le déficit de l'offre d'énergie électrique, et
la logique de production privée n'a pas été amendée dans la période de réalisation du PDSE. Pour limiter les
déficits, la JIRAMA a du recourir à la production et à l'achat d'énergie à des coûts exorbitants, ce qui a
conduit la JIRAMA à la crise financière qu'elle connaît actuelle. Il en résulte le déficit aigu de l'offre
d'énergie et les situations annoncées de délestage que connaissent en 2005 l'ensemble des réseaux de la
JIRAMA.

-        Dans sa mise en oeuvre, le programme a surtout souffert de la désunion des bailleurs de fonds ; dès
la phase de préparation du PDSE, les bailleurs n'étaient pas pleinement d'accord sur le modèle de
restructuration de la JIRAMA. Cette divergence de vues n'a jamais été complètement réglée. Ce qui a valu
une réduction de l'engagement financier de l'AFD de 85%, décidée quatre années après le lancement du
PDSE. Cela s'est aussi traduit par un échelonnement des engagements contractuels des bailleurs, de 1996 à
2000. La cohérence du PAD n'y a pas résisté. Devant décaisser les fonds IDA avant d'avoir les


                                                        - 16 -

financements de la BEI et de l'AFD, la JIRAMA a commencé par investir dans des programmes qui ont
augmenté les consommations... alors même que l'offre d'énergie s'avérait de plus en plus déficitaire.
Lorsque les financements de la BEI et de l'AFD ont été disponibles pour renforcer la production, le déficit
de l'offre d'énergie était tel qu'il était devenu difficile d'intervenir rapidement sur toutes les centrales car cela
aurait provoqué des interruptions de services et des délestages... Encore aujourd'hui, les travaux de
réhabilitation sur les groupes de la centrale d'Andekaleka ne sont pas réalisés pour cette raison, bien que
tous les équipements et pièces de rechange à cet effet, aient été déjà livrés sur site. Cette désunion des
bailleurs a eu aussi pour effet de prolonger de quatre années la mise en oeuvre du programme
d'investissements prioritaires de la JIRAMA. Pendant ces années, la JIRAMA a indéniablement manqué de
moyens pour financer les investissements supplémentaires ; elle n'avait plus de ressources IDA, plus de
ressources propres, et était dans l'incapacité d'emprunter. Il en résulte que les installations de la JIRAMA
ne sont pas encore dimensionnées et en état de supporter le développement économique du pays.

-        Sur un autre plan, il est indéniable que l'ajustement des tarifs de l'électricité n'a pas suivi la réalité
des coûts de production de la JIRAMA et que ces retards de réajustement ont eu un impact très
préjudiciable sur l'économie de l'entreprise, sa capacité d'investissement et de bonne gestion des
installations, rendant plus difficile sa restructuration. La création de l'ORE, avec une mission technique
d'évaluation et de recommandation au Gouvernement d'ajuster les tarifs, a rapidement montré son intérêt et
son efficacité en accompagnant deux ajustements des tarifs en 2005. Sa neutralité entre l'opérateur
intéressé, la JIRAMA, et le décideur ministériel politisé joue un rôle appréciable de référence pour le
Gouvernement et de tampon face à l'opinion publique.

3.       Le programme d'électrification rurale n'a certes pas atteint ses objectifs quantitatifs de
raccordement de nouveaux clients, mais il a largement dépassé ses objectifs organisationnels du
sous-secteur de l'ER en créant un cadre institutionnel et opérationnel durable, constitué d'une Agence et
d'un Fonds dédiés. Initiée avec retard, la phase d'étude d'un schéma directeur de l'ER a été parfaitement
réalisée. Mais, au moment de réaliser les premiers projets d'ER identifiés, la Banque Mondiale a proposé de
promouvoir à Madagascar une nouvelle organisation institutionnelle du sous-secteur de l'ER, adaptant un
concept issue des retours d'expériences internationales. La Cellule d'ER, initialement prévue au sein de la
Direction de l'énergie pour acquérir et mettre en place les équipements d'ER, a été remplacée par une
Agence de développement de l'électrification rurale, l'ADER et un Fonds d'électrification, le FNE (Revue à
mi-parcours d'avril 1999, point 23). La préparation et la promulgation des textes de loi et décrets
correspondants à ces institutions nouvelles, le recrutement du personnel de l'ADER et son lancement, puis
l'impossibilité pour l'ADER d'utiliser les ressources IDA en l'absence d'un avenant à l'Accord de crédit ont
retardé la mise en oeuvre des projets d'ER sur financement IDA.

4.       Le programme de réformes institutionnelles du PDSE était dominé par l'objectif de restructuration
de la JIRAMA. Formellement, cet objectif n'a pas été atteint. Cela ne doit pas masquer les avancées
institutionnelles importantes réalisées avec le soutien du PDSE. La refonte du cadre légal et réglementaire
régissant le sous-secteur de l'électricité a été achevée à la fin 2002 avec successivement : i) une nouvelle loi
promulguée en 1999 et ses derniers décrets et arrêtés d'application en septembre 2001. Cette loi prévoit la
libéralisation du secteur électrique, la création d'un organisme de régulation, et définit des modalités
particulières pour les opérateurs d'électrification rurale ; ii) le décret précisant l'organisation et le
fonctionnement de l'Organisme Régulateur du secteur de l'Electricité (ORE) est promulgué en septembre
2001, et l'ORE devient véritablement opérationnel à la fin 2004, iii) la loi portant création du FNE est
promulguée en octobre 2002, et iii) le décret portant création de l'ADER est promulgué en décembre 2002
et l'ADER devient opérationnelle au début 2004. Jusqu'en début 2003, la restructuration de la JIRAMA n'a
pas réellement progressé. Les évènements à Madagascar ont certes ralenti ces travaux, mais cela résulte
surtout du désaccord initial entre les bailleurs de fonds, et celui, résiduel, entre la Banque Mondiale et le


                                                         - 17 -

Gouvernement concernant l'option de restructuration la plus appropriée pour la JIRAMA. Depuis début
2003 et l'annonce par le Gouvernement que les actifs de la JIRAMA ne seraient pas privatisés, la
restructuration a réellement fait des progrès. Cela coïncide aussi avec l'évolution des analyses de la Banque
Mondiale, consécutive aux retours d'expériences négatives sur la scène internationales. Suivant les
recommandations d'un audit de la JIRAMA en 2003, un contrat de gestion globale de la JIRAMA pendant
deux années a été confié à un consultant en janvier 2005. Une Task Force a été constituée au plus haut
niveau pour étudier les options de restructuration et décider de celle qui sera mise en oeuvre à l'issue du
contrat de gestion, en début 2007. La restructuration de la JIRAMA n'a donc effectivement pas été
accomplie pendant le PDSE, mais les positions de tous se sont rapprochées et une procédure consensuelle
est en place pour parvenir à la restructuration en 2007.

5.       Deux des programmes d'amélioration du rendement énergétique, le Programme National
d'Economie de Bois Energie (PNEBE) et le Programme Pilote Intégré de Mahajanga (PPIM), ont été
réalisés suivant les prévisions de l'Accord de crédit. Le troisième, le Programme d'Utilisation Rationnelle de
l'Energie dans l'Industrie et Transport (PUREIT), a été abandonné d'un accord entre les parties, considérant
que les entreprises bénéficiaires étaient en phase de privatisation et que les études prévues sur les transports
allaient être réalisées sur d'autres financements par l'Université et les acteurs du secteur routier. Initiés
tardivement, le PNEBE et le PPIM ont atteint leurs objectifs quantitatifs, voire les ont dépassé. Pour
autant, les acquis de ces réalisations ne sont pas durablement consolidés. Le PNEBE a vraisemblablement
consacré trop de temps à des études locales des filières d'approvisionnement en bois énergie et des
consommations, et trop peu de temps à la diffusion de Fourneaux économes (FE). Les termes de référence
du PNEBE, peut être trop imprécis, n'ont pas focalisé l'intervention du Consultant sur la diffusion des FE
déjà expérimentés avec succès par l'UPED dans le cadre du programme Energie I. Le PNEBE aurait du
être exclusivement un programme d'extension des acquis de l'UPED à 16 autres villes, pour qu'en 32 mois
il parvienne : i) à impliquer durablement les filières de fabrication artisanale et de distribution dans la
substitution des FE aux fourneaux traditionnels, et ii) à diffuser un nombre suffisant de FE pour garantir le
non retour aux fourneaux traditionnels. Si les objectifs de diffusion de FE ont été dépassés par le PNEBE,
la masse critique n'est pas pour autant atteinte, et on peut craindre, dans certaines villes, un retour aux
fourneaux traditionnels. Le PPIM a également largement dépassé ses objectifs, tant quantitatifs que
qualitatifs. Il a permis de valider à Madagascar, à une échelle significative, et dans le plein respect des
réglementations du secteur forestier, un concept d'exploitation durable des ressources bois énergie qui a
déjà fait ses preuves dans d'autres pays. Le PPIM a aussi validé les outils et méthodes correspondantes.
Mais, ses effets ne seront effectifs et durables que si ce projet expérimental change d'échelle et passe à une
phase d'extension spatiale significative à Mahajanga, et est étendu à d'autres régions très déficitaires en
bois énergie comme celle de Tuléar, Morondava ou Fort Dauphin. Cette phase d'extension, prévue dans le
PAD "Energie et pauvreté" étudié par la Banque Mondiale en 2001 avant d'être abandonné, n'est
aujourd'hui pas assurée, alors que le PPIM est achevé depuis mai 2002. En fait, l'extension des acquis du
PPIM devrait être développée dans le cadre de la phase 3 du PAE (2003 ­ 2008). Ce transfert de la
thématique énergie domestique de la tutelle du Ministère de l'Energie à la tutelle du Ministère de
l'environnement marque un changement de stratégie de la Banque Mondiale, dont on peut se demander,
avec le recul, s'il n'est pas préjudiciable à la thématique. En effet, les impératifs environnementaux
prioritaires, comme les aires protégées, mobilisent jusqu'à présent toute l'énergie des responsables du PAE
au détriment d'une bonne prise en compte des résultats techniques et opérationnels du PPIM obtenus dans le
cadre du PDSE.




                                                       - 18 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

No comments received.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

No comments received.

10. Additional Information




                                             - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate


1. Improve the Prospects for economic      Businesses                                    Partially achieved: 600 new businesses and
growth, and improve living standards,                                                    24,000 households were connected per year
by ensuring electricity supply to:         Number of new businesses installed per        between 1998 and 2004 exceeding the SAR
                                           year.                                         target of 20,000.

                                           Kwh Consumed by those new businesses

                                           Number of connection requests from new
                                           businesses that could not be satisfied due to
                                           lack of materials or to insufficient system
                                           capacity.

                                           Households

                                           Number of new households connected per
                                           year.

                                           Kwh Consumed by those new households

                                           Number of connection requests from new
                                           households that could not be satisfied due to
                                           lack of materials or to insufficient system
                                           capacity.



2. Increase access of peri-Urban and Rural Number of New consumers connected per         Partially Achieved ­ 774 consumers were
populations to the Service.                Year in pre-designated target Areas.          connected per year during the 2 years of the
                                                                                         program exceeding the target of 750.
                                           Kwh consumed per Year by those new
                                           consumers.



3. Greater economic and Management         JIRAMA Performance Inidcators (see below)
efficiency in the Power Sector

4. Increased Energy Efficiency             In Charcoal Production
                                           Estimated increase in efficiency by region in
                                           the yearly production of charcoal energy.

                                           In charcoal consumption                       In charcoal consumption:
                                           Estimated increase in efficiency by urban     Achieved as the estimated savings from use
                                           center in the yearly consumption of charcoal  of Charcoal cookstoves amounts to 2.4
                                           for cooking due to market penetration of      compared to the target of 2.0.
                                           improved cookstoves.

                                           In industry                                   Industry:
                                           Number of businesses that have                Achieved with 7 industries implementing
                                           implemented energy efficiency measures.       Energy efficiency measures compared to the
                                           Total energy losses, as a percentage of net   target of 5.
                                           generation, in JIRAMA's networks.

                                           In the transport sector
                                           Estimated fuel savings per year.

5. Protection of the Environment           Estimated reduction, by region, in the yearly No Data Available
                                           wood offtake from natural forests for use as
                                           fuel, attributable to the project.




                                                               - 20 -

Performance Indicators JIRAMA

Restructured power sector:                 Non-supplied energy, by month and by year. Efficiency: Not Achieved, losses increased
                                                                                          to 22,1% and did not reach the target of 17%.
(a) Promote private sector participation;  Equivalent outage time, by month and year.
                                                                                          Specific Fuel Consumption: Not achieved,
(b) with correct pricing system; and       Efficiency                                     Consumption in the main production facilities
                                           Total losses, calculated as the difference of  increased from 0.295 liter/kWh to 0.336
(c) Strengthened, commercialized EEPCO.    net generation and sales, expressed as a       liters/kWh from the years 1997 to 2004.
                                           percentage of net generation.
                                                                                          Staffing: Achieved, Consumers per
                                           Specific fuel consumption for thermal plants, employee/MWh sold per employee ratio
                                           in litres per kWh.                             improved from 48/110 to 79/133 surpassing
                                                                                          the Target value of 68/140.
                                           Staffing
                                           Number of consumers per employee.              Utility's financial ratios: Not achieved as
                                           MWh sold per employee.                         JIRAMA's financial situation continued to
                                                                                          deteriorate during the last years of the
                                           Financial                                      project.
                                           Debt to equity ratio (it will not exceed 70/30
                                           after restructuring).

                                           Debt service coverage ratio.
                                           Self financing ratio.
                                           Number of days of receivables (60 days for
                                           private consumers, 90 days for public sector
                                           consumers).




Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
              Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                              - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                        US$ million  US$ million
1. JIRAMA Investment Program                             118.10         92.10             77
2. Electrification Program                                 7.80           1.50            19
3. Institutional reform of the Power Sector                3.20           6.00           187
4. Energy Efficiency                                       3.40           3.00            88

Total Baseline Cost                                      132.50        102.60
                         Total Project Costs             132.50        102.60
                   Total Financing Required              132.50        102.60




                                                - 22 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                21.60              0.00              8.90             58.20            88.70
                                          (21.60)            (0.00)            (8.80)            (0.00)           (30.40)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00             12.00             0.00             12.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (11.90)            (0.00)           (11.90)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.40             0.00              0.40
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.40)            (0.00)           (0.40)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              1.50             0.00              1.50
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.50)            (0.00)           (1.50)
      Total                                21.60              0.00             22.80             58.20            102.60
                                          (21.60)            (0.00)           (22.60)            (0.00)           (44.20)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. JIRAMA Investment          31.80        26.70        59.60       33.90         26.50     31.70       106.6     99.3     53.2
Program
2. Electrification Program     7.70         0.10                     1.40         0.10                  18.2     100.0
3. Institutional reform of     3.20                                  6.00                               187.5
the Power Sector
4. Energy Efficiency           3.30         0.10                     2.90         0.10                  87.9     100.0




                                                          - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits



MADAGASCAR - EIRR of ELECTRICITY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM TIME SLICE

 Year     Capital O & M Increm'l Total Total ann'l Increm Total            Net        crude    diesel gen
         Expend.           Fuel     Costssales           sales   Benefits Benefits oil price cost
         $m           $m   $m       $m    GWh            GWh     $m        $m         $/bbl    $/kWh
 1997            2                       2         485                            -2
 1998          5.2       2        1      7         524         39       5         -2      13.04       0.05
 1999        11.3        4        2    17          571         86      11         -6      18.07       0.07
 2000        11.1        6        7    24          616       131       17         -7      28.24       0.14
 2001        12.7        7        6    25          644       159       21         -5      24.35       0.09
 2002          9.4       5        3    17          585       100       13         -4      24.93       0.09
 2003        14.6        9        8    31          676       191       25         -7      28.90       0.11
 2004        14.9       12       16    43          754       269       35         -8      37.73       0.14
 2005          6.9      12       22    41          754       269       35         -6      53.39       0.2
 2006                   12       22    34                    269       35          1
 2007                   12       20    32                    269       35          3
 2008                   12       14    26                    269       35          9
 2009                   12       14    26                    269       35          9
 2010                   12       14    26                    269       35          9
 2011                   12       14    26                    269       35          9
 2012                   12       14    26                    269       35          9
 2013                   12       14    26                    269       35          9
 2014                   12       14    26                    269       35          9
 2015                   12       14    26                    269       35          9
 2016                   12       14    26                    269       35          9
 2017                   12       14    26                    269       35          9
EIRR         6.7%

Notes:
O & M = 4.5 UScents/kWh to cover G+T+D operating costs (per PAD for PWSRR project)
Fuel costs assumed to decline in 2007-08 due to substitution of HFO/hydro for diesel generation
Energy losses of 21% assumed unchanged throughout
Average 2006 tariff of USc13/kWh used to value benefits




                                                - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/04/1991                3    Team Leader (1)
                                             Energy Specialist (1)
                                             Power Engineer (1)
              03/12/1993                5    Team Leader (1)
                                             Economist (2)
                                             Financial Analyst (1)
                                             Power Engineer (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/01/1993              11     Team Leader (1)
                                             Economist (2)
                                             Financial Analyst (2)
                                             Energy Specialist (1)
                                             Reform Specialist,
                                             Consultant (1)
                                             HR Specialist, Consultant(1)
                                             Rural Electrification
                                             Specialists, Consultants (3)
              02/28/1994                3    Team Leader (1)
                                               Consultant (2)

 Supervision

              9/22/1996                 2     Team Leader (1)                     S               S
                                               Consultant, Institutional
                                             Reform (1)
              06/21/1997                2    Team Leader (1)                      S               S
                                             Consultant, Institutional Reform
                                             (1)

              9/26/1997                 3                                         S               S
                                             Team Leader (1)
                                             Financial Analyst (1)
                                             Power Engineer (1)



              06/04/1998                1    Team Leader (1)                      U               S



              09/26/1998                2    Team Leader (1)                      U               S
                                             Program Assistant (1)

              04/19/1999                3    Team Leader (1)                      U               S
                                             Energy Specialist (1)
                                             Program Assistant (1)




                                              - 25 -

      09/08/1999    3 Team Leader (1)                   S    S
                      Biomass Specialist (1)
                      Procurement Specialist (1)

      03/13/2000    3 Team Leader (1)                   S    S
                      Biomass Specialist (1)
                      Procurement Specialist (1)

      09/13/2000    4 Team Leader (1)                   U    U
                      Biomass Specialist (1)
                      Procurement Specialist (1)
                      Financial Management Specialist
                      (1)

      10/21/2001    2 Team Leader (1)                   S    S
                      Power Engineer (1)

      09/23/2002    2 Team Leader (1)                   U    S
                      Power Engineer (1)
      07/06/2003    3 Team Leader (1)                   S    S
                      Power Engineer (1)
                      Financial Analyst (1)
      06/28/2004    2 Team Leader (1)                   S    S
                      Power Engineer (1)
      11/12/2004    2 Team Leader (1)                   S    S
                      Power Engineer (1)
      25/01/2005    2 Team Leader (1)                   S    U
                      Power Engineer (1)
      07/07/2005    2 Team Leader (1)                   S    U
                      Procurement Specialist (1)

ICR
      05/02/2006    2 Team Leader (1)
                      Consultant (1)




                      - 26 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           249.7                          774.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                          174.6                          873.5
  ICR                                   12.4                           39.6
  Total                                436.7                       1,687.50




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents



  1. Aide Mémoires 1996 - 2005.

  2. Electricity Act, MEM, 1999.

  3. Electricity Tariff Study, ORE/Patou, 2003.

  4. Audit JIRAMA, Cabinet Masard, 2003.

  5. Request for Proposals, Management Contract for JIRAMA, MEM, August 2004.

  6. Public ­ Private Management options, SOFRECO, 2005 - 2006.

  7. Completion reports for the following components:
     (a)      Component A, JIRAMA, December 2005
     (b)      Component 2, Progelec, October 2000
     (c)      Component 4, PPIM-CIRAD, June 2002

  8. Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Madagascar of March 14, 1996.

  9. Projet de Développement du Secteur Energie - Rapport d'achèvement au 31 décembre 2005.

 10. Plan d'Expansion au Moindre Coût des Réseaux, Hydro Québec International , décembre 2005.




                                              - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Suggested JIRAMA Outcome Indicators (Annex 3 of PWSRRP)




                          Target Values ­ APL-1      Data Collection and Reporting

 Outcome indicators       Baseline  Mid-    End of Frequency    Data      Responsibility

                                    term    APL-1     and     collection    for data
                                                    reports  instruments   collection
  Results indicators
Improve generation
efficiency

- Number of HFO units       2        14      22    Every 6    Monthly      JIRAMA
                                                   months    monitoring
                                                               report
- % of diesel generation
over total generation     31%       24%     14%    Every 6    Monthly      JIRAMA
                                                   months    generation
                                                               report

- Specific consumption     247      242     240    Every 6     Specific    JIRAMA
of diesel units           g/kWh    g/kWh   g/kWh   months      report

Reduction of electricity
losses

Overall indicator:        76,3%    76,7%   77,6%   Every 6     Specific    JIRAMA
- Energy billed/energy                             months    report (from
produced                                                       2007)

Specific indicator:
- Length of 5 kV lines      0      30 km   59 km   Every 6    Monthly      JIRAMA
converted to 20 kV                                 months    monitoring
                                                               report
                                                                           JIRAMA
- Number of CFL lamps       0      300,00 660,000  Every 6    Monthly
installed                            0             months    monitoring
                                                               report




                                          - 31 -

Revenue management

Overall indicator:
- Revenue collected/
Energy billed:             77%    78,5%    82%    Every 6  Monthly     JIRAMA
 (i)    For industrials    92%    92,5%    93%    months  monitoring   JIRAMA
                                                            report
 (ii)   For households                            Every 6
                                                  months
Specific indicators:     4 months   3        3             Monthly     JIRAMA
- Accounts receivable in          month   months  Every 6 monitoring
months of billing          7,332    s             months    report

- Number of prepayment                    14,200  Every 6  Monthly     JIRAMA
meters installed                  10,132          months  monitoring
                                                            report

Financial outcomes

EBITDA margin              -50%   -10%     >0%    Annual   Annual      JIRAMA
(EBITDA/revenues)          (FY     (FY     (FY            accounts of
                           2006)  2007)    2008)          JIRAMA

Adequate technical,         No      In      In    Monthly JIRAMA       JIRAMA,
commercial and                    place,   place,         Manageme    with possible
financial reporting in            quarte monthly           nt report   input from
place                              rly                                regulator to
                                  basis                                define the
                                                                      format of the
                                                                       reporting.




                                         - 32 -

                                44°                                                  46°                                                  48°                                                                     50°



                                                M A D A G A S C A R
                               ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEMS
                                       AND FOREST COVER
        12°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12°


                                                                                                                                                                                            ANTSIRANANA
                                         FUTURE     EXISTING   TRANSMISSION LINES:

                                                                 138 kV, DOUBLE CIRCUIT

                                                                 63 kV

                                                                 35 or 20 kV
                                                                                                                                                                        AMBILOBE              IHARANA
                                                                                                                                    NOSY BE
                                                                                                                                                                          M
                                                                                                                                                                           ahavavy
                                                               MAJOR ELECTRICITY CENTERS                                                                                                                         VOHIMARINA


                                                               OTHER ELECTRICITY CENTERS                                                                  AMBANJA


                                                               HYDRO POWER STATIONS                                                                       A N T S I R A N A N A
         14°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14°
                                                               FORESTS

                                                               RIVERS                                                                                                                                                  SAMBAVA

                                                                                                                                                                  Bealanana
                                                               FARITANY BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                 ANALALAVA
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ANDAPA
                                                                                                                                            ANTSOHIHY


                                                                                                                              ANAHIDRANO                                                                                   ANTALAHA

                                                                                                                                                 BEFANDRIANA


                                                                                                                                                                                      Maroantsetra
                                                                                                                       PORT                   Sofia

                                                                                                  MAHAJANGA            BERGE

                                                                                                                                           AnjombonyMANDRITSARA

                                                                                                                                  Bemarivo
         16°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16°
                                                                                                       MAROVOAY                                                                                          MANANARA NORD
                                                                                                                        MAMPIKONY
                                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                          ahajamba
                                                                                                        AMBATO BOENI



            M o z a m b i q u e                                   M A H A J A N G A                                                                                                    SOANIERANA
                                                                                                                Boinakely       Tsaratanana                                            IVONGO
                                                                                             MAEVATANANA
                                                                                                                Betsiboka
                                                                                                                                                Andilamena                                                    SAINTE MARIE


              C h a n n e l                                                                                                                                       Maningory                  FENOARIVO EST
                                                                                                                            Andriamena
                                                   Manambaho                                                                                                 Imerimandrosa               VAVATENINA
                                                                                                                                                              Lake Alaotra
                                                                                                                                                                               Onibe
                                                Morafenobe                                                                              Vohidiala           AMBATONDRAZAKA
                                                                                                                                                                Ivondro
        18°                                                 Bemahatazana                                                                                                                                                                              18°

                            MAINTIRANO                      Beravina           ahavavy                                                    MANAKAMBAHINY
                                                                                                             ANKAZOBE                                            Volobe
                                                                              M                                                                                                              TOAMASINA
                                                                                                                         Anjozorobe                             Fanandrana
                                                                              Ambaravaranala
                                                                                 A N TA N A N A R I V O                                   T O A M A S I N A
                                                                              TSIROA/DIDY                                     Ankzondandy
                                                 Antsalova                                            Arivonimamo
                                                                                                         ANTANANARIVO
                                                                                                                                                        Andekaleka
                                                                                               Analavory                           Manjaklandriana                           Vohibinany
                                                                            Fanjakamanaroso                                                                Perinet
                                                                                         MIARINARIVO                                                               BRICKAVILLE
                                                                                                                                          Mandraka
                                                                                                                                              MORAMANGA
                                                   Manambolo                                                                Antelomitas
                                                                                                      SOAVINANDRIANA         Andramasin                                  VATOMANDRY
                                                                                               AMPEFY  Faratsiho                               ANOSIBE
                                                                MIANDRIVAZO                                              AMBATOLAMPY
                                                                                             Mandoto                                                               Canal
                               BELO/TSIRIBIHINA                                                    A/BARY SAMBAINA

                                                   Tsiribihina
                                                                                                                ANTANIFOTSY
                                                                                                   Betafo                                     Mangoro              MAHANORA
                                                                                                            ANTSIRABE
         20°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20°
                                                                                                Manandona
                                                                                                                                             MAROLAMBO
                               MORONDAVA                                                                                Fandriana

                                                       Mahabo
                                                 Morondava       Malaimbandy

                                                                              AMBATOFINANDRAHANA                     AMBOSITRA
                                                                                                                                                            Nosy Varika



                                                                                                                                   Vohilava

                                                                                                  Ambohimahasoa                                 Pangalanes
                                                                                                                     Namorona

                                        MANJA                                                  FIANARANTSOA                      IFANADIANA       MANANJARY                                      I N D I A N

                   MOROMBE                             Beroroha                                               RANOMAFANA                 Irondro



                                          Mangoky                                                                                                                                                 O C E A N
                                                                                        Ankarmena         AMBALAVAO

         22°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          22°

                                                                                                                                           MANAKARA
                                  T O L I A RY                                               F I A N A R A N T S O A
                                                                             IHOSY                     Ivohibe
                                                                                                                                     VOHIPENO



                                    SAKARAHA                                                            VONDROZO

                                                                                                                                   FARAFANGANA
                                                                                                              Mananara
                                                                                                                                                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                           BETROKA                                                                                                                 and any other information shown on
                                                                                                                                                                                                   this map do not imply, on the part of
                                    Fiherechana                                                                                                                                                    The World Bank Group, any judgment
                      TOLIARY
                                              BEZAHA                                                                           VANGAINDRANO                                                        on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                   any endorsement or acceptance of

                                                     Onilahy                                         MIDONGY SUD                                                                                   such boundaries.

                                           BETIOKY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50°

         24°                                                                                                                                                        24°
                                                             Bekily                                                                                                                      TANZANIA
                                                                         Berakete                                                                                                                                        45°                50°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COMOROS             Antsiranana
                                                                                                    Manantenina

                                                                                                                                                                                                     E                    Mayotte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (Fr)


                                           Amponihy                                Mandrave                                                                                        ALAM            U
                                                                                                                                                                                                 IQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mahajanga                       15°
                                                                                                                                                                                  IW           B
                                                                                                                                                                                              M
                                                                                                                                                                                            ZA
                                                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                              Amboasary-  TAOLAGNARO                                                                     M                    Channel
                                                                                              Sud                                                                                                                                  SCAR    Toamasina
                                                                                         Ambovombe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G   Antananarivo
                                                                                                                                                                                        20°              bique                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20°
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ozam                       A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D    Fianarantsoa

                                                                                                          0            50         100         150             200                                                             A
                                                                                                                                                                                                    M

                                                                                                                                                                                                                Toliary      M                           IBRD
MA                                                                                                                            KILOMETERS

  Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25661
   1994                                                                                                                                                                                 25°                                                           25°

                                 44°                                                 46°                                                  48°                                                      40°                   45°                50°

