Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2844 MAG
                    Development Credit Agreement
                 (Energy Sector Development Project)
                               between
                       REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                 and
                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated May 29, 1996
                                               CREDIT NUMBER 2844 MAG
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 29, 1996, between  REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has submitted to the Association a letter,
dated October 13, 1994, as supplemented by a further letter dated October
3, 1995, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed
to achieve an adjustment of the Borrower's energy sector (hereinafter
referred to as "the Program");
      (B)   the Borrower has declared its commitment to the execution of
the Program and, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from European Investment Bank
(EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount equivalent to European Currency
Units 20 million to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and EIB;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa (ABEDA) a loan (the ABEDA Loan) in an amount
equivalent to $7 million to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the ABEDA Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and ABEDA;
      (E)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower's
national electricity and water company, Jiro Sy Rano Malagasy (JIRAMA),
Page  2
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to JIRAMA a portion of the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement;
      (F)   JIRAMA intends to contract from Caisse Francaise de
Developpement (CFD) a loan (the CFD Loan) in an amount equivalent to
French Francs 170 million to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the CFD Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between JIRAMA and CFD; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of
even date herewith between the Association and JIRAMA;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MEM" means Ministere de l'Energie et des Mines of the
Borrower;
      (b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and JIRAMA, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;
      (c)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to two
letters of agreement signed by the Association and countersigned by the
Borrower, dated March 31, 1993 and September 21, 1994, respectively;
      (d)   "Special Account" means either or both of the accounts
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (e)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and JIRAMA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may open and maintain in dollars one special
deposit account (hereinafter referred to as JIRAMA Special Account) for
the purposes of Part A of the Project, and another special deposit account
(hereinafter referred to as MEM Special Account) for the purposes of
Parts B, C and D of the Project. Special accounts shall be held and
Page  3
maintained in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including appropriate protection against setoff, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, a Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30
immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be
set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate
set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the
currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies
as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15, commencing May 15,
2006, and ending November 15, 2035. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 15, 2015, shall be one percent (1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association
may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive
Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay
twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments,
the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned
repayment modification.
Page  4
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. JIRAMA is designated as representative of the Borrower
in respect of Part A of the Project for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and, to this end:
            (i)    shall carry out Parts B, C and D of the Project with
                   due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with
                   appropriate administrative, financial and environmental
                   practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
                   funds, facilities, services and other resources
                   required for such Parts of the Project; and
            (ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
                   obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
                   Borrower shall cause JIRAMA to perform all its
                   obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, shall
                   take or cause to be taken all action, including the
                   provision of funds, facilities, services and other
                   resources, necessary or appropriate to enable JIRAMA
                   to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
                   permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
                   interfere with such performance.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts B, C and D of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall relend the portion of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated to Part A of the Project to JIRAMA under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and JIRAMA, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association,
which shall include: (i) an adjustable interest rate equal to the London
Interbank Rate (LIBOR) plus nine-tenths of one percentage point per
annum, (ii) a repayment period of twenty five years, including a grace
period of five years, and (iii) a requirement that the foreign exchange
risk involved in the transaction shall be borne by JIRAMA.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
Parts B, C and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that
Page  5
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project shall be
carried out by JIRAMA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX
of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date, or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
for the future operation of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency, and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of Parts B, C and D of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                   (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
                   Account for each fiscal year, audited, in accordance
                   with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six (6) months after the end of
                   each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                   as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                   reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                   which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                   payment out of the Special Account was made, all
                   records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents, or customs certificates, as
                   appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
Page  6
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                   the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                   Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                   separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                   year, together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
                              ARTICLE V
                     Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
      (b)   JIRAMA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the  Project Agreement;
      (c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date of
the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that JIRAMA will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (d)   except in accordance with the requirements of the Program,
Ordinance No. 75-024 establishing JIRAMA or Arr\08t\02 No. 7800-92 regarding
tariff adjustments shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of JIRAMA to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (e)   except in accordance with the requirements of the Program, the
Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of JIRAMA or for the
suspension of its operations; and
      (f)   (i)    subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                         the terms thereof, or
                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
                         prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
                   the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                   Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
                   termination or prematuring is not caused by the
                   failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
                   obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
                   funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
                   from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
                   with the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower;
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur;
Page  7
      (c)   any event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f)
(ii) of that Section.
                             ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and JIRAMA;
      (b)   a request for proposals for the recruitment of consultants
required for purposes of the proposed restructuring of JIRAMA under
Part C.3 of the Project has been issued;
      (c)   the Borrower or JIRAMA, as the case may be, has appointed
all key personnel required for the implementation of the Project; and
      (d)   in respect of all contracts to be awarded during the first
year of implementation of the Project, the Borrower or JIRAMA, as the
case may be, has submitted to the Association the draft bidding
documents for review.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by JIRAMA, and is legally binding upon JIRAMA in accordance
with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and JIRAMA and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and JIRAMA in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                             ARTICLE VII
             Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Antananarivo
            Madagascar
            Cable address:                    Telex:
                   MINFIN                     22489
                   Antananarivo
      For the Association:
Page  8
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                    Telex:
                   INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                         By /s/ Pierrot Rajaonarivelo
                                          Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                            Regional Vice President
                                                             Africa
                             SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(1)   Goods:
      (a) electromechanical     12,700,000       100% of foreign
          equipment                              expenditures
      (b) general plant          3,800,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
Page  9
(2)   Consultancy                2,200,000       100%
      services and
      training
Parts B, C & D of the Project
(3)   Works                         650,000      100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(4)   Electrical                  3,450,000      100% of foreign
      equipment and                              expenditures and
      general plant                              90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(5)   Consultancy              5,300,000         100%
      services
(6)   Training                   300,000         100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
Other
(7)   Refunding of             1,100,000         Amounts due
      Project                                    pursuant to
      Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                    of this Agreement
(8)   Unallocated              2,300,000
      TOTAL                   31,800,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "general plant" means tools and other maintenance
equipment; specialized trucks for transmission and distribution work,
and other vehicles; data processing equipment, and other office equipment,
and equipment for JIRAMA's training center.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures, or goods
imported, as the case may be, prior to the date of this Agreement; or (b)
expenditures under Categories (3) or (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, unless the regulatory agency under Part C.1 of the Project
has been duly created.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts for goods, works and services not exceeding $50,000 equivalent,
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the Borrower's
Page  10
sustainable growth prospects by ensuring an adequate supply of
electricity in the medium term, both for businesses and households,
including an increased access of peri-urban and rural populations to the
service; (b) to create an institutional foundation for greater economic
and management efficiency in the power subsector, and (c) to promote
greater efficiency in the production and consumption of energy, thus
helping to mitigate the adverse environmental impact of woodfuel use.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     JIRAMA's Priority Investment Program for Electricity
1.    (a)   Rehabilitation of the hydroelectric power stations of
Antelomita I and II (8 MW in total), Mandraka (24 MW), Manandona (1.6 MW),
and Volobe (7 MW), including:
            (i)    in the case of Mandraka, replacement of turbine wheels,
                   and overhaul of generators and control systems;
            (ii)   in the case of Antelomita, rehabilitation of five
                   units, and replacement of two other units with a
                   single new 3-MW unit;
            (iii)  in the case of Manandona, rehabilitation of three
                   existing units and addition of one new 2.5 MW unit; and
            (iv)   rehabilitation of civil and hydraulic structures,
                   penstocks, auxiliaries and substation equipment for
                   all four stations.
      (b)   Improvement of electro-mechanical and control equipment of
other hydro plants.
2.    Provision of new diesel generating sets with unit capacities ranging
from 40 kW to 1 MW, as well as spare parts, auxiliary equipment and expert
assistance to undertake rehabilitation works in JIRAMA's diesel plants.
3.    Construction of a transmission extension to link the port cities of
Manakara and Mananjary to the Namorona hydroelectric power station.
4.    (a)   Reconstruction of the 30-kV line between Moramanga and Perinet,
and replacement of old structures in the 63-kV line between Antananarivo
and Antsirabe.
      (b)   Reconstruction of the 20-kV line linking Manandray hydro power
station to the city of Fianarantsoa, and replacement of old poles in the
20-kV line between the hydro power station of Namorona and the town of
Ifanadiana.
5.    Introduction of a new distribution network structure in Antananarivo,
involving construction of a new line and a new 138-kV, 40-MVA substation
to the north of the city, construction of 20-kV lines, and installation
of new distribution transformers, as well as rehabilitation and
reinforcement of existing substations, and rehabilitation of parts of the
existing 35-kV, 20-kV and 5-kV networks.
6.    Reinforcement of distribution substations, as well as rehabilitation
and extension of distribution networks in the large distribution centers
other than Antananarivo, namely, Antsirabe, Fianarantsoa, Toamasina,
Antsiranana, Nosy-Be, Mahajanga and Toliara.
7.    Provision of about 30,000 new service connections.
8.    (a)   Extension of the pilot electrification project to the west of
Antananarivo, designed to incorporate the thermal isolated systems of
Tsiroanomandidy, Miarinarivo and Soavinandriana, with a combined demand
of 0.5 MW, and to electrify 17 small villages along the way by means of
single phase branches.
      (b)   Electrification of the villages of Alakamisy-Ambohimaha,
Page  11
Amontana and Ankijana by extending the Fianarantsoa distribution network.
9.    Systematic investigation of energy losses, including preparation and
implementation of a loss reduction program.
10.   (a)   Preparation of a Master Plan for human resource management, in
accordance with the parameters for improvements in personnel management as
defined under Part C.4 of the Project, including updating of the Jobs
Manual, revision of job families and career streams, revision of salary
structure and rules for promotions, establishment of an incentive system
to attract qualified personnel to the regions, and a plan for the
evolution of JIRAMA's manpower, both in numbers and in level of
qualification, in accordance with JIRAMA's strategic plans.
      (b)   Development of a training program designed to improve
operational capacity and methods, including short courses for operation
and maintenance personnel on specialized technical subjects, and
provision of equipment and materials for the training center as well as
for operation and maintenance.
      (c)   Promotion of prevention and security services, through: (i)
evaluation of the general level of security within JIRAMA, (ii)
identification of the needs of JIRAMA, and preparation of a master plan
for the improvement of the security of personnel, and (iii) training of
personnel in matters of prevention and security.
11.   Provision of hardware, software, technical assistance and training,
designed to develop a company-wide management information system, in
accordance with the master plan for information technology as reviewed
under Part C.4 of the Project, integrating accounting, stock management,
commercial operations, personnel management and technical applications.
12.   Implementation of feasibility studies for two hydro projects,
Ambodiroka (13-MW) and Ramena (6-MW), designed to substitute for thermal
generation in the north of Madagascar.
Part B:   Electrification Program
      Development of a master plan for the extension of low cost
electricity services in the country, beginning with a country-wide survey
to identify areas with a high enough level of economic activity and other
infrastructure to make productive use of electricity; and, based on such
a master plan, implementation of an electrification program.
Part C:   Institutional Reform
1.    Revision of the legal and regulatory framework governing the
electricity sector, including the establishment of clear rules for the
future operations in the sector, and the creation of a regulatory agency
to be responsible, inter alia, for the determination of electricity
tariffs.
2.    Establishment of the regulatory agency, provision of data processing
equipment and software, other office equipment and vehicles, and
implementation of a tariffs' study to define regulated prices and
adjustment formulae.
3.    Preparation of a restructuring package for JIRAMA, in view of
adapting JIRAMA to the revised legal and regulatory environment and its
transformation into a commercially-oriented joint stock company, taking
into account the specific corporate objectives of JIRAMA and the need to
attract private sector participation in the equity capital of the
company, including:
      (a)   an assessment of the existing situation of JIRAMA;
      (b)   the redefinition of its corporate mission and strategy;
      (c)   details of a proposed financial restructuring package,
including revision of the asset base, revaluation of assets and
recapitalization; and
Page  12
      (d)   review of its statutes, organizational structure and manage-
ment systems.
4.    Definition of the parameters for improvements in personnel manage-
ment, and review of the master plan for information technology.
Part D:   Energy Efficiency Program
1.    Implementation of a national program to improve charcoal stoves and
to promote more efficient cooking practices in 16 cities, as well as a
national program to promote energy efficiency in industry and transport.
2.    Implementation of an integrated set of measures on an experimental
basis in the Mahajanga region, including development of a master plan for
the supply of woodfuels to the city of Mahajanga, establishment of
organizational and other mechanisms for improved forest management in the
region, training of wood cutters, charcoal makers and stove manufacturers
in more efficient techniques, identification of alternative fuels for
cooking, and promotion of improved charcoal stoves.
3.    Development of a training program designed to improve capacity and
methods, including short courses on specialized subjects for personnel
responsible for project monitoring.
                                * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines),
and in accordance with the following additional procedures:
      (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by
the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation, obtain
necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding
documents or the request for extension shall provide for appropriate
adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs
for the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in the
bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Association's prior review
in accordance with the provisions of Part C of this Section, the
Association's prior approval will be required for: (i) a first extension
of the bid validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60)
days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
      (b)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to
in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when the contract
is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful
bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two
predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be
applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local
currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
      (c)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A,
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
Page  13
shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.    Goods procured in accordance with the procedures described in
paragraph 1 (a) above shall be exempted from pre-shipment price
inspection by third parties.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Madagascar may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Works, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $840,000, and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    General plant estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be
procured through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the
other information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts B, C and D
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
Page  14
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the
terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment ofindividual 
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent
or above.
                             SCHEDULE 4
                       Implementation Program
1.    (a)   The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than December
31, 1997 and, thereafter, not later than December 31 of each subsequent
year, undertake, in conjunction with JIRAMA, a joint annual review of the
Project (or, as the case may be, not later than December 31, 1998, a
midterm review), during which they shall exchange views generally on all
matters relating to the progress of the Project and the Program, and the
performance by the Borrower and JIRAMA of their respective obligations
under this Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; including, but not limited to:
            (i)    progress achieved in the implementation of the Project,
                   having regard to the performance indicators agreed to
                   this effect upon between the Borrower and the
                   Association;
            (ii)   a review of the proposed investment program of JIRAMA,
                   including any proposed changes thereto;
            (iii)  a review of the level of tariffs applicable to
                   electricity, and the adequacy thereof, having regard to
                   all relevant factors; and
            (iv)   progress achieved in the implementation of the action
                   plan referred to in paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule.
      (b)   Not later than one month prior to each such review, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress
and status of the Project, and on the specific matters to be addressed at
such review.
      (c)   Following each such review, the Borrower shall act promptly
and diligently, in order to take, or assist JIRAMA in taking, any
corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the
implementation of the Project, or to implement, or assist JIRAMA in
implementing, such other measures as may have been agreed upon between
the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
2.    The Borrower shall, not later than May 31, 1996, (a) settle all
arrears due to JIRAMA in respect of outstanding electricity bills, and
(b) in collaboration with JIRAMA, establish and implement a simplified
procedure to ensure the prompt payment of electricity bills by the
Borrower and all its constitutive departments and agencies within three
(3) months of the receipt of the bills.
3.    The Borrower shall, in conjunction with the Association, conduct an
annual review of its proposed investment program in the electricity
subsector, and, except with the agreement of the Association, shall not
engage in any capital investment in the electricity subsector, involving
an amount in excess of $2 million.
4.    (a)   The Borrower shall proceed to implement, or cause JIRAMA to
implement, a short term action plan agreed with the Association and
designed to enable JIRAMA to attain a debt to equity ratio of not more
than 70/30 by December 31, 1996.
Page  15
      (b)   For the purposes of paragraph (a) above the term "debt to
equity ratio" means the respective proportions, with a reference to a
basis of 100 points, of JIRAMA's long term debt (i.e. all indebtedness
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred), including the current portion of it, and equity as
sources of funds in the capital structure of JIRAMA.
5.    For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall, not
later than May 31, 1996;
      (a)   create a specialized unit to coordinate and supervise the
implementation of the electrification program; and
      (b)   submit to the Association for review an action plan, giving
details of its proposed strategy and institutional framework for the
implementation of the program; and, subject to the approval of the
Association, shall proceed thereafter to implement such action plan.
6.    For the purposes of Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall take
appropriate steps to ensure that:
      (a)   the regulatory agency shall have been established, not later
than September 30, 1996; and
      (b)   the electricity tariffs' study shall have been launched, not
later than March 31, 1997.
7.    Pending the establishment of the regulatory agency provided for under
Part C.1 of the Project, and implementation of the tariffs' study under
Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall continue to apply the tariff
adjustment principles and indexation formulae set forth in Arrete No.
7800-92 of December 31, 1992.
8.    For purposes of Part C.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   carry out a revaluation of the fixed assets of the electricity
section of JIRAMA and incorporate the revised values in the books of
accounts of the electricity section not later than January 1, 1997;
      (b)   not later than December 1, 1996, and in conjunction with
JIRAMA, complete a review of the adequacy of the currently used methods of
allocating expenses common to the electricity and water sections of
JIRAMA, and communicate the findings and recommendations thereof to the
Association; and thereafter proceed to implement such findings and
recommendations not later than January 1, 1997;
      (c)   not later than December 1, 1996, complete a study designed
to assess the financial implications of past installation of plant in
areas where expected electricity demand did not materialize, or of past
decisions to provide electricity services to areas of low demand, and
communicate the findings and recommendations thereof to the Association;
and thereafter proceed to implement such findings and recommendations in
accordance with a time table and other modalities agreed upon with the
Association; and
      (d)    not later than January 30, 1997 submit to the Association
its proposals for the reorganization, recapitalization and transformation
of JIRAMA into a joint stock company, and subject to the approval of the
Association, proceed thereafter to implement such proposals.
9.    The Borrower shall have quarterly reports prepared by JIRAMA and
MEM, and submitted to the Association, on the progress of the project,
showing details of any revised cost estimates in respect of individual
contracts and under the Project, changes, if any, in the timing of
procurement actions, and the extent of compliance with agreed methods
of procurement and with the ceilings agreed for each such procurement
method.
10.   The Borrower shall take appropriate steps to expedite  procurement
actions under the Project and, to this end, shall ensure that, not later
than two months after the latest date for submission of bids: (a) MEM
Page  16
shall have reviewed all bids, and submitted a bid evaluation report,
along with a recommendation, to the Procurement Committee; and (b)
based on the findings and recommendation thereof, a final determination
shall have been made by the Procurement Committee and communicated to MEM.
11.   For purposes of works undertaken under the Project, the Borrower
shall take adequate steps to ensure that such works shall be conducted
with due regard to the need for adequate safeguards for the protection of
the environment, and that adequate provisions to that effect are included
in the relevant works contracts.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means:
            (i)    in the case of the JIRAMA Special Account, Categories
                   (1) and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
                   Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
            (ii)   in the case of the MEM Special Account, Categories
                   (3), (4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in
                   paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount indicated
below to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule:
            (i)    in the case of the JIRAMA Special Account, an amount
                   of $600,000, provided, however, that, unless the
                   Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
                   Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent
                   to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
                   from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
                   outstanding special commitments entered by the
                   Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
                   Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent
                   of $600,000; and
            (ii)   in the case of the MEM Special Account, an amount of
                   $350,000, provided, however, that, unless the Association
                   shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall
                   be limited to an amount equivalent to $175,000 until the
                   aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account
                   plus the total amount of all outstanding special
                   commitments entered by the Association pursuant to
                   Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal
                   to or exceed the equivalent of $350,000.
2.    Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
Page  17
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                   shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
                   into the Special Account at such intervals as the
                   Association shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
                   and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                   this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
                   which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
                   into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                   by said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                   out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special
Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of
the records and accounts for a Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
Page  18
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
