Page  1
                                                 CONFORMED
COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2844 MAG
                          Project Agreement
                 (Energy Sector Development Project)
                               between
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                 and
                        JIRO SY RANO MALAGASY
                         Dated May 29, 1996
\0c                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2844 MAG
                          PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 29, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and JIRO SY RANO MALAGASY
(JIRAMA).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Madagascar (the Borrower) and the Association, the Associati
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equival
thirty one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,800,000
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
condition that JIRAMA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrow
and JIRAMA, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Devel
Credit Agreement will be relent to JIRAMA on the terms and conditions set forth
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS JIRAMA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
Page  2
                             Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms def
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) h
the respective meanings therein set forth.
                             ARTICLE II
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) JIRAMA declares its commitment to the objectives of the
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end
carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency, and in confor
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices;
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser
other resources required for Part A of the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Sect
and except as the Association and JIRAMA shall otherwise agree, JIRAMA shall car
out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set fort
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions o
1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. JIRAMA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and la
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the
      Section 2.04. JIRAMA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subs
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JIRAMA shall no
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, ass
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) JIRAMA shall, at the request of the Association, exchang
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the p
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   JIRAMA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project,
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by JIRAMA of it
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      (c)   Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, JIRAMA shall
participate fully in the annual review referred to in Schedule 4 of the Developm
Agreement and, to this end, shall: (i) furnish to the Borrower and the Associati
reports as may be required for that purpose, and in such detail as the Borrower
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project;
following each such review, act promptly and diligently, in order to take, or as
Borrower in taking, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortco
noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement, or assist the Borro
implementing, such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the parti
furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
                             ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of JIRAMA
      Section 3.01. JIRAMA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under th
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. JIRAMA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, ma
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make al
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering
and technical practices.
Page  3
      Section 3.03. JIRAMA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) JIRAMA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to r
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condi
      (b)   JIRAMA shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance
                   sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
                   statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any c
                   not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year
                   (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such yea
                   so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
                   such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
                   reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
                   said records, accounts and financial statements as well as th
                   audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Cred
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, JIRAMA shall:
            (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflectin
                   such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has rec
                   the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdr
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, re
                   and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                   records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the ann
                   audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that t
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said audi
                   as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
                   such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                   support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JIRAMA
not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures
JIRAMA shows that the estimated net revenues of JIRAMA for each fiscal year duri
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated de
requirements of JIRAMA in such year on all debt of JIRAMA including the debt to
incurred.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of JIRAMA maturing
                   by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
                   originally incurred.
            (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contrac
                   or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or f
                   the modification of its terms of payment on the date of such
Page  4
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
                   agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
                   guarantee has been entered into.
            (iii)  The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                         operations and net non-operating income; and
                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to operations including
                         administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                         payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for
                         depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and
                         interest and other charges on debt.
            (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
                   between:
                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those related to
                         operations; and
                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes
                         incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
            (v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                   amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any
                   of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
            (vi)   The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by
                   JIRAMA not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence
                   of the debt in question, which both the Association and
                   JIRAMA accept as reasonable and as to which the Association
                   has notified JIRAMA of its acceptability, provided that no ev
                   has occurred since such notification which has, or may
                   reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adve
                   effect on the financial condition or future operating results
                   JIRAMA.
            (vii)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessa
                   to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt paya
                   in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basi
                   of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
                   currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for th
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such r
                   on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Associat
      Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JIRAMA
take all such measures as shall be required to produce funds from internal cash
equivalent to not less than thirty percent (30%) of the annual average of JIRAMA
capital expenditures incurred or expected to be incurred during the previous, cu
following fiscal year.
      (b)   For the purposes of this paragraph:
            (i)    the term "funds from internal sources" means the difference
                   between:
                   (A)   the sum of gross revenues from all sources related to
                         JIRAMA's operations, contributions in aid of
                         construction, net non-operating income and any
                         reduction in non-cash working capital; and
                   (B)   the sum of all expenses of the JIRAMA's operations,
                         including maintenance and administration (excluding
                         depreciation and other non-cash operating charges),
                         interest and other charges on debt excluding interest
                         financed under a loan contract), repayment of loans
                         (including sinking fund payments, if any), all taxes or
                         payments in lieu of taxes, all cash dividends and other
                         cash distributions of surplus, increase in non-cash
                         working capital and any other cash outflows other than
                         cash expenditures related to the operations of JIRAMA;
Page  5
            (ii)   the term "capital expenditures" means all  expenditures incur
                   on account of capital assets, including interest during
                   construction, related to the operations of JIRAMA;
            (iii)  "gross revenue" means the revenue earned and received for the
                   services provided by JIRAMA;
            (iv)   "expenses" means the sum of all operating expenses, taxes on
                   income and profits, depreciation and interest charged on all
                   debentures, bonds and loans;
            (v)    "operating expenses" means the cost of operation and
                   maintenance, service management and administrative expenses,
                   and all taxes accruing during the financial year, other than
                   on income and profits of JIRAMA;
             (vi)  "taxes on income and profits" consists of income taxes and
                   other levies accrued by JIRAMA according to the provisions of
                   any legislation or regulation applicable in this respect;
            (vii)  "depreciation" means the applicable provision derived pursuan
                   to the requirements stipulated  in the appropriate electricit
                   legislation;
            (viii) "interest charged on all debentures, bonds and loans" means a
                   interest, excluding interest during construction, accrued by
                   JIRAMA during the financial year and all other charges on
                   debt.
      Section 4.04. JIRAMA shall take all actions required to ensure, starting w
fiscal year beginning on January 1, 1996, that accounts receivable in respect of
sales shall not exceed, at any time, an average of the equivalent of sixty days'
sales, in the case of private sector clients, and ninety days' worth of sales, i
the public sector and local governments.
      Section 4.05. Pending the establishment of the regulatory agency provided
under Part C.1 of the Project, and implementation of the tariffs study under Par
the Project, JIRAMA shall continue to adjust its electricity tariffs periodicall
accordance with the tariff adjustment principles and indexation formulae set for
Arr\08t\02 No. 7800-92 of December 31, 1992.
      Section 4.06. JIRAMA shall, with effect from May 31, 1996, take appropriat
measures with a view:
      (a)   to open separate bank accounts and to separate cash management in
respect of its electricity and water sections, respectively;
      (b)   to ensure that all receipts and payments arising out of the activiti
respective sections of JIRAMA shall be credited, or charged, as the case may be,
appropriate account; and
      (c)   to maintain its debt service to the Borrower on a current basis.
      Section 4.07. JIRAMA shall, as soon as possible and in any event not later
May 31, 1996, deposit into the bank account for its water section an amount of F
billion as liquid working capital, and shall, for this purpose, make an appropri
allowance for the corresponding amount in the accounts of JIRAMA.
      Section 4.08. JIRAMA shall, as soon as possible and in any event not later
May 31, 1996, ensure that any funds generated by, or accruing to, its electricit
shall not be used for any purpose not directly related to the activities of the
section (including payment of dividends), unless the financial requirements for
operations of the electricity section, debt service, additional working capital
investments have been fully met.
      Section 4.09. For purposes of Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of this Article, all
to JIRAMA and to the operations of JIRAMA shall be construed as references to th
electricity section of JIRAMA and to its electricity operations, respectively.
                              ARTICLE V
Page  6
                    Effective Date; Termination;
                     Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association an
JIRAMA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)    the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
                   terminate in accordance with its terms; or
            (ii)   the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with it
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Assoc
promptly notify JIRAMA of this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditio
                             ARTICLE VI
                      Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or m
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have be
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, te
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party sha
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:            Telex:
                   INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)\0c      For JIRAMA:
            149, Rue Rainandriamampandry
            Antananarivo
            B.P. 200
            Madagascar
            Cable address:            Telex:
                   JI.RA.MA                 222-28
                                            JIRADG MG
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any docume
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of JIRAMA,
JIRAMA on behalf of JIRAMA under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken
or executed by the Director General, or such other person or persons as the Dire
General shall designate in writing, and JIRAMA shall furnish to the Association
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authoriz
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective nam
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first abo
Page  7
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                            Regional Vice President
                                                             Africa
                         JIRO SY RANO MALAGASY
                         By /s/ Pierrot Rajaonarivelo
                                          Authorized Representative\0c
                           (Section 2.02)
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods shall be procured under contrac
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Section
II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" publishe
the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following addi
procedures:
      (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity peri
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisio
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to comp
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or t
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price
changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Suc
increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
to each contract made subject to the Association's prior review in accordance wi
provisions of Part C of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be r
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension exce
days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
      (b)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in para
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when the contract is delayed beyond t
bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for eac
delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Association, one
applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency c
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid ev
      (c)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, JIRAMA
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for t
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by
Bank, JIRAMA shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recogniz
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.    Goods procured in accordance with the procedures described in paragraph 1
above shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by third parties.
Part B:Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Madagascar may be granted a margin of preferen
Page  8
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 o
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Fuel oil processing equipment and other such specialized equipment, estima
to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amou
equivalent to $700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
competitive bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
from a list acceptable to the Association of qualified suppliers eligible under
Guidelines, and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.    Measuring instruments and data processing equipment required under Part A.
the Project, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured u
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from a
three suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the Guideli
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Contracts for the purchase of proprietary spare parts for hydro and therma
estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or less per contract, up to an aggr
amount equivalent to $2,100,000, may, for purposes of ensuring compatibility wit
existing equipment, be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in acco
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equiva
of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of t
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two confor
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to s
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragrap
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines s
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Accoun
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the cont
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidenc
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appen
1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist JIRAMA in carrying out Part A of the Project, JIRAMA sh
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be s
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the Wo
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisi
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budg
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation report
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimat
less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of indiv
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contr
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical natur
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent
above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultan
Page  9
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.\0c
                         (Section 2.01 (b))
                       Implementation Program
1.    JIRAMA shall, in conjunction with the Borrower and the Association, conduc
annual review of its proposed investment program in the electricity subsector; a
with the approval of the Borrower and the Association, and on the basis of satis
evidence of economic and technical viability, shall not engage in any capital in
in the electricity subsector, involving an amount in excess of $2 million.
2.    JIRAMA shall, not later than December 31, 1996, and in consultation with t
Borrower and municipalities concerned, establish a mechanism designed to ensure
recovery of the costs incurred by JIRAMA to provide public lighting and use of e
in public buildings within the confines of such municipalities; taking into acco
be, the statutory powers of the municipalities concerned to impose a surcharge o
electricity bills or, where appropriate, to vary such surcharge.
3.    JIRAMA shall take appropriate steps to expedite procurement actions under
Project and, to this end, shall ensure that, not later than two months after the
for submission of bids, (a) all bids shall have been reviewed, and a bid evaluat
prepared, and (b) based on the findings thereof, a final determination shall hav
made by JIRAMA, and communicated forthwith to MEM for information.
4.    For purposes of works undertaken under the Project, JIRAMA shall take adeq
steps to ensure that such works shall be conducted with due regard to the need f
adequate safeguards for the protection of the environment, and that adequate pro
to that effect are included in the relevant works contracts.\1a
