CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 196 RW
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 17, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 196 RW
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 17, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1970, between the REPUBLIC OF
RWANDA      (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions.)
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agieement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million three hundred thousand
dollars ($9,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement, as such
allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿4
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project and to be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i)        the. equivalent of eighty-five per cent (85%) of such amounts
as shall have been paid (or, if the Association shal so agree,
shall be required to meet payments to be made) for goods or
services included in Category I of the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(ii)       such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association
shall so agr.e, shall be required to meet payments to be made)
for the CIF (Kigali) price of goods produced outside the
territories of the Borrower and included in Category II of said
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(iii)      such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, shall be required to meet payments to be made)
for goods or services included in Category III of said allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the estimate of such
payments for goods or services included in Category I, the Association may by
notice to the Borrower adjust the stated percentage applicable to such Category
as required in order that withdrawals of the amount of the Credit then allocated
to such Category and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with the payments
remaining to be made for goods or services included in such Category.
Section 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made:
(i)        under Category III of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement on account of
payments in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the
Borrower; or
(ii)       on account of payments for taxes imposed by the Borrower or
any of its political subdivisions on, or in connection with, the
importation or supply of goods or services included in Categories
II and III of said allocation of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.05. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿*                                 5
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from   time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each January I
and July 1 commencing July 1, 1980 and ending January 1, 2020, each
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 1990 to be
one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of the Credit in
accordance with the provisions of this Development Credit Agreement to
expenditures on the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the goods
and services (other than consultant's services) to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be procured on the bas's of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with such
other procedures supplementary thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement or as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, and
(ii) contracts for the procurement of such goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit (including consultant's services) shall be subject to
the approval of the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, engineering, financial


﻿6
and highway maintenance practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall, in the carrying out of the Project, employ or cause
to be employed competent and experienced consultants acceptable to the
Association, to an extent and upon such terms and conditions as shah have been
agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association,
to an extent and upon terms and conditions as shall have been agreed between
the Borrower and the Association, to carry out Part A of the Project.
(d)   The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the reports, plans, specifications, contract
documents, and work schedules for the Project and any material modifications
subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(e)   Unless the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the
general design standards to be used for the roads included in the Project shall
be as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause a study for improvement of the road
maintenance to be carried out by consultants and, upon its completion, shall
exchange views with the Association with respect to the evaluation and
implementation of the recommendations and other conclusions therein contained,
and shall implement an effective road maintenance program, to be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices, the administration, operations, expenditures
and availability of funds in respect of the Project of any department or agency
of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof;
shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the operations and administration with respect to the Project


﻿7
of the agency or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall promptly acquire such rights-of-way as shall
be necessary for the construction of the road incl.Ided in the Project, and shall
promptly furnish to the Association such evidence as the Association shall
reasonably request regarding the acquisition of such rights-of-way.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall allocate the equipment to be purchased
out of the proceeds of the Credit to a mechanized maintenance unit under the
supervision of qualified experts acceptable to the Borrower and the Association,
and shall have said unit adequately staffed, supplied and serviced.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other arrangements acceptable to the Association for, insurance
of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against marine,
transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take all measures reasonably required to
ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using its national highway
network shall not exceed limits consistent with the design standards of such roads.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall collect and record in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and procedures such data as are required to assess
the technical, economic and financial aspects of the Borrower's road network for
proper planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions of said road network.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall adequtely maintain or cause to be
adequately maintained its national highway netwo.k, in accordance with sound
engineering and financial practices.
Section 4.10. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each
of them shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territory of the Borrower and the international balance of
payments position of the Borrower.


﻿8
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time exchange
views through their representatives with regard to matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, the Project, and the
operations, administration, expenditures and availability of fuds in respect of the
Project, of any department or agency of the Borrower responsible for the carrying
out of the Project or any part thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations inder the Development Credit Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territory of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
Section 4.11. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territory.
Section 4.12. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed inder the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in
its territory on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then, at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal, together with such charges, shall become
due and payable immediately, anything in this Development Credit Agreement to
the contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of


﻿*                                             9
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the consultants referred
to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Development Credit Agreement shall have been
employed.
Section 6.02. The date of September 15, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. (a) The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.05 of
this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate on the date on which this
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 8 years after the date
of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
(b)   The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 through 4.04,
and 4.06 through 4.09 of this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate on
the date on which this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 20 years after the date of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1974, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. The Minister of Public Works of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Travaux Publics
Kigali, Rwanda
Alternative address for cables:
Minitrablics
Kigali


﻿10
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indev.s
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
By /s / Fiddle Nkundabagenzi
Authorized Representatihe
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE I
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                                         Dollar Equivalent
I.    Construction and one year's
maintenance of the Kigali-Gatuna
Road                                                 6,620,000
II.   Road maintenance equipment                             130,000
III.  Consulting services for preparation
of bidding documents and supervision
of the construction of the Kigali-
Gatuna Road                                            590,000
IV.   Unallocated                                          1,960,000
TOTAL              9,300,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1.   If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to III shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to, and no
longer required for, such Category will be reallocated by the Association
to Category IV.
2.    If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to III shall increase, an amount equal to the portion, if any, of such increase
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (or, in the case of Category
I, an amount equal to 85% of such increase) will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from Category
IV, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined
by the Association, in respect of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:    the construction of a bituminous paved road between Kigali and the
Uganda border at Gatuna including one year's maintenance of the road
after completion;
Part B:    the purchase of road maintenance equipment;
Part C:    the preparation of bidding documents for Parts A and B and supervision
of construction.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1974.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
The following procurement procedures will be applied for the selection of
firms and for the award of contracts for goods and services (other than consultant's
services) included in the allocation of proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement:
1.    Before inviting bids, information concerning the advertising coverage,
prequalification procedures, as well as invitations to bid, specifications, proposed
terms and conditions of contracts, and all other tender documents, shall be
submitted to the Association for approval. Before awarding any contract, the
Borrower shall send to the Association for approval the consultant's evaluation
of bids received and the Borrower's proposal concerning such contract and award.
Upon execution of each contract, the Borrower shall promptly send two conformed
copies thereof to the Association.
2.    With respect to goods and services included in Category I as set out
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
(a)   The list of contractors to be invited to bid will be determined through
prequalification after broad call to international competition.
(b)   The invitation for prequalification shall be published in newspapers
in Rwanda and in technical and professional magazines of large
circulation, and shall be sent to the diplomatic or consular
representatives of Bank member countries and Switzerland in Rwanda,
and, whenever possible, shall be published in newspapers in neighboring
countries.
(c)   The time interval between the invitation to submit application for
prequalification and the closing date for receiving such application will
not be less than forty-five (45) days.
(d)   Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall submit to the Association for
approval the list of firms from whom prequalification applications were
received, the consultant's evaluation thereof with the Borrower's
proposal concerning the list of firms prequalified for the bidding.
(e)   The time interval between the invitation to bid and the opening of
the bids shall not be less than sixty (60) days. During this period


﻿14
an opportunity shall be afforded to the contractors to visit the site
and to meet and discuss with the Borrower any question related to
the proposed works or contracts.
(f)   Bidding documents shall state that bidders will be authorized to import
duty free the equipment necessary for the project, under temporary
admission.
(g)   The successful contractor shall furnish a performance bond in an
amount equal to the contract price or a bank guarantee equal to not
less than 10% of such price. In addition, the contract will provide
(i) for the retention of 10% of the amounts paid under each monthly
invoice until an aggregate amount equal to 5% of the contract price
will have been retained, or (ii) for a bank guarantee equal to 5% of
the contract price. Any amount thus retained or guaranteed will remain
in effect as a guarantee against defective work until final reception
of the work after the maintenance period.
3.    With respect to goods in Category II as set out in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, the following procedures will be followed:
(a)   Bidding documents shall be prepared with the assistance of the
Consultants employed by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01 (b)
of this Agreement and shall be submitted to the Association for
approval.
(b)   Bid invitations shall be advertized in Rwanda and, whenever possible,
in neighboring countries.
4.    Whenever a contract under the Project is awarded to a firm not
registered in the territories of the Borrower, the Borrower will facilitate the
accomplishment by such firm of all formalities which may be required to enable
it to carry out such contract.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards
In Rolling Terrain      In Mountainous Terrain
Design Speed                     60 km/h                   45 km/h
Maximum Grade
Normal                           6%                        7%
Exceptional                    7.5%                        8%
Minimum Curve Radius
Normal                        150 m                      75 m
Exceptional                   75 m                       70 m
Width of Pavement                    6 m                       6 m
Width of Shoulder                    I n                    0.50 m


