Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9235
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2063-AR)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Before June 14, 1985 - Peso ($a)
Since  June 14, 1985 - Austral (A)   $a 1,000
Market Rates
End of 1980      US$1  -   $a  1,996
End of 1982      US$1  =   $a   4.85 new pesos (1 new   10,000 old)
End of 1984      US$1  =   $a 178.24
(May)  1985     US$1  =   $a 593.85
(June) 1985     US$1  =   A 0.80005 Australes
End of 1986      US$1  =   A 1.257         "
End of 1987      US$1  =   A 3.750         "
End of 1988      US$1  =   A 13.370        "
(Nov.) 1989     US$1  =  A 652.500
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Austral   -   Argentine unit of currency since June 14, 1985
BANADE    -   Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (National Development Bank)
DFC       -   Development Finance Company
ERR       -   Economic Rate of Return
INTI      -   National Institute for Industrial Technology
LIBOR     -   London Interbank Offering Rate
PCR       -   Project Completion Report
QR        -   Quantitative Restrictions
TA        -   Technical Assistance
GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMFCL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washinqton. D C. 20433
USA
oMice os o.ecUv-.GeLw.a.
Operatl & valu*tHif 
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Argentina
Second Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2063-AR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Argentina - Second Industril Credit Project (Loan
2063-AR)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restncted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official dutes Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without Worf Bank authonhzon



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2063-AR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
'REFACE .           .............................................................                             i
'VALUATION  SUMMARY  ..................................................                                    iii
PART  I.   PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  THE  BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE  ....                        ..........        1
A.   Project  Identity  ....................................                                 1
B.   Background  ..........................................                                  I
C.   Project  Objectives  and  Description  ..................                               2
D.   Project  Design  and  Organization  .....................                               4
E.   Project  Implementation  ..............................                                 6
F.   Project  Results  .....................................                                 8
G.   Project  Sustainability  ..............................                                 9
H.   Bank  Performance  ...........            .........................                    10
I.   Borrower  Performance  ................................                               11
J.   Project  Relationship  ................................                               13
K.   Project  Documentation  and  Data  ....4                       .................       13
PART  II.   PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM THE  BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE  ....                         ......       15
Project  Development  and  Implementation  ..................                              15
Lessons  Learned  .........................................                                21
Effectiveness of Relations Between the World Bank
and  BANADE  ............................................                               22
PART  III.   STATISTICAL  INFORMATION  .................................                                   23
1.   Related  Bank Loans  ..................................                               23
2.   Project  Timetable  ...................................                               24
1.   Loan Disbursements  ..................................                                24
4.   Use  of  Bank Resoulrces  ..... ..........................                            25
5.   Status  of Covenants  .................................                               26
ANNEXES
1.   BANADE:   Subproject  Profile  and  Distribution  of  Subprojects  .....                                27
2. BANADE: Outstanding Arrears Under Loan 2063-AR .29
3. BANADE: Subprojects Financed Under Loan 2063-AR .31
4.   BANADE:   Comparative  Balance  Sheets,  December  31,  1981-
July 31, 1989                       ............  34
5. BANADE: Income Statements, 1981-89 .35
6. BANADE: Financial Ratios, 1981-89 .36
7. BANADE: Personnel Employed in .978-89 .37
This document hds a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofthcial duties Its contents mda not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2063-AR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Industrial Credit Project in Argentina, for which Loan 2063-AR in the amount
of US$100 million equivalent was approved on December 1, 1981.  The project
was implemented during a tumultuous period in Argentine history, marked by
recession and financial crises, changes of administration, emergence of the
Latin American debt crisis, and the South Atlantic war between Argentina and
the United Kingdom. The loan was closed on June 28, 1989, about two and one-
half years behind schedule.   A total of US$15.7 million from the loan was
cancelled, mostly reflecting cancellation of subloan commitments by sub-
borrowers. The final disbursement was made on July 20, 1989.
The PCR was prepared by the Trade, Finance, and Industry Division,
Country Department IV, of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final super-
vision of the project in September 1989.  It is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Guarantee Agreements; supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank
memoranda; and the PCR for the Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1463-AR) which
was issued by the Trade, Finance and Industry Division, Country Department IV
of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office in June 1989.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department.   The
draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments, but none were received.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2063-AR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.       Objectives of the US$100 million loan to the National Development
Bank  (BANADE) were to:   (i)  increase  industrial sectoral efficiency;
(ii) improve industrial energy efficiency; (iii) promote regional develop-
ment; (iv) provide BANADE with technical assistance to improve its manpower
planning and management control and information systems; (v) improve the
capacity of BANADE and the National Institute for Industrial Technology
(INTI) to promote energy conservation; (vi) carry out a study of industrial
effective protection; and (vii) help mobilize complementary foreign commer-
cial funding (para. 1.05).
Implementation and Results
2.       Credit Components.   The most critical shortcoming of the loan may
have been its failure to improve substantially industrial efficiency in
Argentina.   Since about 80% of commitments were made between 1985 and 1987
when quantitative restrictions (QRs) covered more than 70 percent of domestic
manufacturing production, policy distortions may have led to inefficient use
of loan proceeds, especially since ERR calculations appear to have been made
for only 17 out of 137 subprojects. Other important shortfalls in implemen-
tation were:  (i) the slower than expected use of loan funds; (ii) the lack
of demand for subloans for energy conservation and working capital; and (iii)
the lack of demand for cofinanced projects or subloans originated by provin-
cial banks  (paras.  1.19-1.23).   In addition, INTI's contemplated role in
promoting energy conservation did not materialize because of budgetary cut-
backs.  Slow use of the credit components occurred for two reasons.  First,
by the time the loan became effective in 1983, successive currency devalua-
tions and soaring domestic interest rates had weakened the finances of domes-
tically and externally-indebted firms and their banks.  This experience may
have made potential subborrowers wary about borrowing in foreign currency.
At the same time, the imposition of QRs in response to this financial crisis
discouraged new investments to increase industrial efficiency and expand
exports by the very export-competitive firms that would have been candidates
for foreign-currency borrowing.   Second,  the high fixed interest rates
charged initially on project sub'oans were only reduced in line with market
rates nearly three years after effectiveness.  The relatively high interest
rates and complex procedural requirements under the working capital com-
ponent,  _.h was included in the loan in 1985, made such borrowing unattrac-
tive.   Ac loan closing, US$14.6 million was cancelled from the credit
component (para. 1.19).



- iv -
3.       BANADE used US$84.0 million in loan funds to finance 137 subprojects
with a cost exceeding US$260.9 million.   Some 46% of the disbursed credit
amount went to small and medium enterprises. About 47% of the credit amount
went for plant modernization, in line with expectations.   Since after 1985
onlending interest rates were in line with LIBOR, credit subsidies did not
account f^r loan demand.
4.       As of January 1990, 30 of the 136 original subloans remaining in
BANADE's portfolio were having payments problems; however, collections under
this loan are better than for BANADE's entire portfolio (para. 1.26).
5.       Technical Assistance.   The TA component had mixed results.   The
proposed effective protection study, which had little Government support in a
period in which trade liberalization measures were being reversed and for
whic-. necessary data were found to be unavailable, was substituted by a stud-
to identify industrial subsectors with good export potential. This study was
completed in May 1988, too late to affect the project materially.   In any
event, the study did not address the issues of industrial competitiveness and
the anti-export bias of policy.   BANADE's manpower development plan led to
the establishment of its Training Institute which helped establish successful
completion of technical training as a more important criterion for advance-
ment in BANADE, bu- had little effect in reducing BANADE's overstaffing.
More positively, co.aputerized accounting systems were installed by BANADE as
foreseen at appraisal.   These systems eventually helped reveal the grave
financial problems faced by the institution (para. 1.36-1.37). However, the
Bank did not reimburse 1ocal expenditures for acquisition and installation of
these systems because at the time of the reimbursement request, which had
been delayed, their dollar equivalent value had declined to only a fraction
of the original expenditures, and the Bank declined to reimburse them at the
historic exchange rate  (para.  1.23).   As a result, US$1.1 million was
cancelled at loan closing from the allocation for technical assistance.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.       The operation had several design problems.   First,  institutional
improvements focussed too narrowly on the installation of improved management
information systems and the preparation of a manpower plan, instead of upon a
more comprehensive Action Plan with a set of monitorable targets aimed at
improving the efficiency of BANADE's assets, liabilities and operations
management,  including better management of risks.   Second, different loan
components were targeted to specific end-uses that did not materialize, such
as the inclusion of an energy conservation component which received little
promotional support locally. Third, given the turbulent context and limited
implementation capacity of the executing entities, the loan was probably
overloaded with too diverse a set of broadly-defined objectives to be imple-
mented successfully.   Fourth,  no apparent  consideration was given to
including commercial banks through an "Apex" system, which might have
promoted greater competition in term lending in Argentina (paras. 1.16 and
1.17).



7.       Overall project supervision was inadequate; better supervision would
have revealed and maybe helped to avoid the marked institutional and finan-
cial decline of BANADE which occurred over the project's life.   The major
weakness was the poor attention paid to BANADE's overall institutional
development and financial situation, beyond review of compliance with the
debt/equity covenant.   This may be partly explained by the fact that the
Bank's focus was already shifting by early 1986 to the preparation of a
follow-on operation (Small and Medium Industries Credit Project, Loan
2793-AR).   Close monitoring of important institutional aspects,  like
portfolio quality and liquidity, only began in early 1988. At appraisal in
1981 BANADE was held to have sound financial policies, a positive net worth,
a satisfactory debt/equity ratio, and ample income.   Over the life of the
loan,  large losses resulted from a portfolio highly concentrated in non-
performing loans subject to weak collection efforts.  In 1988, arrears were
21 percent of BANADE's total loan portfolio and over 50 percent of the loan
portfolio was affected by arrears. The largest 50 loans amounted to some 75
percent of total loans, three fourths of which were considered problem loans.
In 1989, a Bank review concluded that: (i) the institution was overbranched
and overstaffed with poorly-paid, relatively low-skilled employees, and loan
approval and follow-up procedures remained weak; (ii) its profitability was
negative; and (iii) its net worth had eroded by some 82 percent to a very low
US$34.7 million.  While the exact extent of erosion in financial indicators
was difficult to measure owing to distortions created by hyperinflation and
weaknesses in accounting standards, the conclusion that BANADE was in need of
recapitalization and restructuring was decisive (paras. 1.35-1.37).
8.       This project demonstrates:   (i) the difficulty of implementing
credit operations in an unstable economy; (ii) the difficulty of maintaining
a public bank as an effective financial intermediary, owing to the risk that
political intervention will undermine its portfolio quality, despite the
formal safeguards of Charters and Policy Statements which purport to
guarantee decision-making autonomy; (iii) the futility of trying to direct
credit demaaLd for diverse end-uses; (iv) the need to implement technical
assistance activities rapidly, since the relevance of studies and the
interest, both by the Bank and counterpart authorities, is subject to fast
erosion; and (v) the need to maintain market-based terms and conditions on
subloans at all times, in order to maintain subborrowers' participation
(paras. 1.39-1.43).
9.       The legal agreements generally provided the parties with adequate
rights, protections and clarifications during project implementation.
Proiect sustainability
10.      The new Bank loan (Loan 2793-AR) that became effective in April
1988, five months before closing of this loan, allowed BANADE to continue
lending despite the drastic reduction in funcing through Central Bank redis-
counts.   The financial crises and bouts of hyperinflation that affected
Argentina since the second quarter of 1989 seriously affected BANADE, its
clients and other participating financial intermediaries. BANADE's financial
and administrative deterioration, and its non-compliance with the loan's
debt/equity covenants, disrupted the operation of the new loan.   Early in



- vi -
1990, the Government named an interventor for BANADE and later issued a
Decree ordering BANADE's restructuring with ths objective of restricting it
to second-tier operations. The inability of BANADE to function as an effec-
tive financial intermediary with proper financial discipline ani independence
from political influence, after three Bank loane, is an indication that the
objectives of this as well as those of the new loan are not being sustained
(para. 1.30).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2063-AR)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
1.01  Project Name     Second Industrial Credit Project
Loan Number      2063-AR
Loan Amount      US$100.0 million equivalent
Cofinancing      US$200 million in commercial bank financing was sought
concurrently with negotiations for the loan
RVP Unit         Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country          Argentina
Sector           Industry
B. Background
1.02     At appraisal in March 1981, the Government faced the task of
reducing a large balance of payments deficit, easing the financial distress
of a debt-ridden private sector, controlling inflation and revitalizing the
economy.  Central to this program was the development of a more efficient,
internationally competitive industrial sector.   This was to be fostered by
policies aimed at:   (i) liberalizing trade to encourage competition;  and
(ii) improving the mobilization and allocation of financial resources by
developing a more competitive banking system.
1.03     Under the loan, the Government provided the Bank with a policy
statement affirming its continued efforts to promote increased industrial
efficiency and exports, and to liberalize foreign trade. However, the policy
context at appraisal may best be described as one of tenuous liberalization.
1.04      Following tariff and exchange rate reforms in 1976 and 1979, the
economy became more open, with the overall industrial input-output ratio
rising from under 12% in 1971 to about 24% in 1979.   There were moves to
liberalize interest rates, lower barriers to entry to the banking system,
establish deposit insurance for local time deposits, and introduce a system
of fractional reserve bankirg. However, the opening of the economy did not
generate the expected structural changes in industry.   The initial tariff
reforms between 1976 and early 1979 had only a mild effect on industrial
producers.  Due to redundancy in the tariff system, firms made only limited
adjustment efforts.   The second phase of trade liberalization in 1979



- 2 -
produced greater adjustment.   However,  during  1979 and 1980,  currency
aDpreciation and sharply rising interest rates dampened firms'  investment
lans, thus slowing the process of structural reform.   Moreover, as local
interest rates soared and foreign loans became available at lower interest
rates, intermediate goods producers--less affected by the recession-- turned
increasingly to external financing.  A banking crisis erupted in 1980 owing
to the excessively rapid expansion of bank activities.   The Peso was
massively devalued in 1981.   In 1982, the financial crisis deepened as a
result of the combined effect of the devaluations of the previous 15 months,
high interest rates, and the virtual cessation of new foreign loans as the
Latin American debt crisis unfolded.   The period of trade liberalization
ended with the introduction of foreign exchange rationir.g in 1982.   In
December 1983, the new Government replaced foreign exchange rationing with
quantitative import restrictions (QRs).   These came to cover more than 70
percent of domestic manufacturing production and remained in force until
1987, when they began to be reduced with the support of a Bank Trade Policy
and Export Diversification Loan (Loan No.2815-AR). In a further effort to
manage financial distress in the private sector, in 1984 the Government
introduced an enhanced program of Central Bank rediscounts which public
banks, an_ to a lesser extent private commercial banks, were able to use for
term lending.   While this program helped alleviate the immediate financial
problems of some firms, the high reserve requirements required to sustain it
ultimately reduced the lending capacity of commercial banks.
C. Project Obiectives and Description
1.05     The project was a US$100 milJion loan to BANADE with the guarantee
of the Government.  Its objectives were to:  (i) increase the efficiency of
the industrial and mining sectors by .inancing plant modernization, equipment
replacement, and new capacity in economically-efficient firms; (ii) improve
industrial energy efficiency by financing energy conservation investments;
(iii) promote regional development by funding industrial projects through
provincial banks; (iv) provide BANADE with technical assistance to improve
its manpower planning and its management control and information systems;
(v) improve the institutional capacity of BANADE and the National Institute
for Industrial Technology (INTI) to promote energy constrvation; and
(vi) carry out a study of effective protection in the Argentine industrial
sector. At appraisal, the term credit needs of industry were not expected to
be fully met from domestic sources.   Since only the largest firms were
expected to hav( access to external financing, the Bank loan was expected to
help fill the financing gap for small and medium sized firms, which were
expected to borrow mostly for equipment modernization. It was expected that
the Bank loan would act as a catalyst for mobilization of complementary
foreign commercial funding through parallel cofinancing arrangements.
1.06     The loan included components for:
(a) a credit line of US$89.5 million for onlending by BANADE
directly to subborrowers or to provincial banks to finance the
foreign exchange costs of industrial and mining subprojects;



- 3 -
(b)  a credit line of US$10.0 million for onlending through BANADE
to finance the foreign exchange costs of energy conservation
subprojects;
(c) a technical assistance component of US$0.5 million to finance
preparation of a manpower development plan and the design and
installation of a management control and information system for
BANADE.
The energy conservation program in INTI and the effective protection study
for industry were to be funded by the Government from its own resources.
1.07     Concurrent with the Bank loan, BANADE was negotiating for about
US$200 million in foreign commercial bank loans; with this in mind, a
standard cross-default claus- was included in the Loan Agreement.
1.08     The Bank loan bore a fixed 11.6% annual interest rate plus a 3/4%
commitment fee on undisbursed loan balances, and was repayable over a maximum
of 15 years. Loan proceeds were to be onlent in dollars or in pooled curren-
cies, at the option of the subborrowers.  At appraisal it was contemplated
that BANADE would assume both the dollar and cross-currency foreign exchange
risks on the Bank loan. BANADE would relend loan proceeds directly to sub-
borrowers at an interest rate equal to the Bank rate plus 5% p.a. (i.e.
16.6%) for dollar-denominated subloans and 2.5% (i.e. 14.1%) for pooled
currencies.   Subsidiary loans by BANADE to provincial banks would bear an
interest rate of at least 11.6% (the Bank loan's rate) in the case of pooled
currencies and at least 14.1% in the case of dollar-denominated loans.
Provincial banks would accept the credit risk of lending to their clients and
would onlend subsidiary loans at interest rates at least equal to those
charged by BANADE to its direct subborrowers.
1.09     Subloans would be for up to 15 years with a maximum 3 year grace
period; the maximum loan amount was fixed at US$7 million in cases where no
other external financing would be included in the subproject. This maximum
could rise to US$12 million in those cases where any amount above US$7 mil-
lion from Bank funds was matched by equal or greater amounts of external
financing. The "free limit" below which the Bank would not review BANADE's
appraisals was set at US$2.5 million, except that: (i.) BANADE would seek the
Bank's approval for the first two energy conaervation projects and the first
two subprojects from any provincial bank; and (ii) the free limit would be
reduced to US$500,000 for subprojects for products for which the rate of
effective protection had changed substantially since loan signing.   BANADE
agreed to advise the Bank when submitting subprojects of any policy changes
which would have increased materially the rate of effective protection for
the products involved. Economic Rate of Return (ERR) analyses were required
for: (i) all subloans of US$500,000 and above for new or expansion projects;
(ii) all subloans of US$2 mil5ion and above for modernization or re-equipment
projects; (iii) all subloans of any size where there had been a significant
increase in effective protec:ion for the goods to be produced by the project.
1.10     In November 1985 the loan was amended inter alia to:  (i) include
US$50.0 million to finance working capital (imported inputs) for industrial



firms, and reduce correspondingly the allocation for investment lending;
(ii) refine the bases for computing the covenanted debt/equity ratio for
BANADE to separate the impact of the Government guaranteed portfolio from the
rest of BANADE's operations (para. 1.32); (iii) specify that subloans would
be made exclusively in US dollars; (iv) provide the option of charging
interest rates on subloans at either a fixed rate of 14.1% or a floating rate
of LIBOR + 2.5%, with a floor of 12.1%; (vii) transfer the cross-currency
exchange risk of the pooled currencies against the dollar to the Government;
(viii) include a Special Account under the loan; and (ix) amend the under-
taking to carry out an effective protection study to one requiring the design
of a program to expand industrial exports. These amendments had been agreed
initially in principle by BANADE and the Bank in July 1983, but had received
little attention from the Central Bank and Government on account of the
latter's preoccupation with forthcoming elections.
1.11     In February 1986, the Bank agreed to finance a greater share of the
costs of eligible goods and services. In May 1986 the loan was again amended
to reduce the loan allocation for working capital to US$5.0 million and
delete the allocation for energy conservation; the allocation for investment
lending was correspondingly increased.   In April 1987 the loan was reallo-
cated yet again, inter alia to: (i) delete the allocation for working
capital; (ii) increase by about US$0.8 million the allocation for technical
assistance and training; and (iii) authorize the use of local procedures
satisfactory to the Bank for the acquisition of equipment and software
related to the te.hnical assistance components.
D. Prolect Design and Organization
1.12     The project was a traditional repeater DFC operation using BANADE, a
public development bank, as a channel for lending to private enterprises. It
was a follow-on loan to the Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1463-AR), which
was almost fully committed.   The loan included two innovative features:
(i) an allocation for investments in industrial energy conservation in the
context of a promotional program involving BANADE and INTI; and (ii)
provision for funds to be channelled through provincial banks, in an attempt
to decentralize industrial lending geographically. Despite its financial and
organizational weaknesses, BANADE was selected as the borrower because the
Bank had built a relationship with it under the previous project. Moreover,
given the (then) state of Bank thinking about the organization of credit
projects, BANADE was felt to be the most appropriate conduit in Argentina to
channel Bank medium-term credits to the industrial sector.
1.13      At appraisal, BANADE's main institutional weaknesses were iden-
tified as:  (i) its ossified personnel structure, characterized by a large
number of older professionals and young trainees, with a paucity of mid-
career professionals; (ii) the prevalence of second jobs among many of
BANADE's technical staff; and (iii) inadequate systems for data processing or
management  information and control.   Accordingly,  the project included
components intended to address these issues (para. 1.06).
1.14     Regarding BANADE'S  financial operations,  it was recognized at
appraisal that BANADE's debt/equity ratio had eroded to 5.5:1 at end-1980 and



would reach 7:1 in early 1981, up from 1.6:1 at end-1976 following its
recapitalization that year.   However, since the 1980 and 1981 ratios fell
below BANADE's statutory 10:1 limit, they were judged adequate.   Under the
loan, a covenant was included committing the Government to require BANADE to
take all necessary measures to maintain its equity in real terms.  While it
was recognized that the debt/equity ratio had increased due to continued
growth in liabilities and some real equity erosion, it was felt that BANADE
had progressed in its capacity to protect itself against domestic inflation
and in preserving its equity base by its practices of: (i) relending foreign
borrowings for loans repayable in similar currencies, thereby transferring
the foreign exchange risks to borrowers; and (ii) since March 1981, indexing
interest rates on medium and long term peso-denominated loans to the cost of
funds.
1.15     At appraisal, based on an analysis of BANADE's pipeline of loan
applications, it was estimated that total foreign currency loan commitment
demands on BANADE would amount to US$700 million through the two year loan
commitment period.   Thus, ample demand for loan funds and for associated
foreign cofinancing was forecast. The scope and scale of the project seemed
appropriate in the face of the implicit (but naive) assumptions by the
appraisal mission about:   (i) the ability of the loan to support the
Government's liberalization program by helping revitalize the industrial
sector; and (ii) the subborrowers' interest in making investments for energy
conservation. However, the negative impact which the fixed Bank lending rate
of 11.6% would have on the demand for credit by subborrowers facing an
adjustment program could not be foreseen, since the Bank interest rate at
appraisal was only 9.6%--some two points below the rate which ultimately
prevailed at loan approval.
1.16     Retrospectively, however, the operation had several design problems.
First, apart from the salutary installation of improved management control
and information systems, institutional improvements focussed too narrowly on
the   preparation of a manpower development plan, instead of upon a more
comprehensive Action Plan with a set of monitorable targets aimed at
improving the efficiency of BANADE's assets, liabilities and operations
management, including the better management of risks. Second, the success of
the energy conservation component was dependent on the promotional efforts of
INTI, which were in turn, dependent on continurd budgetary support from the
Government.  Moreover, the feasibility of the component seemed untested, an
important point given the existence of subsidized energy prices in Argentina.
Third, given the turbulent context and limited implementation capacity of the
executing entities, the loan was probably overloaded with too diverse a set
of broadly-defined objectives to be implemented successfully.
1.17     Moreover, measured against current Bank thinking regarding the
design of credit projects--which has changed considerably since the time of
project appraisal--other important design problems existed.  First, the loan
was made in an environment with a history of macro-instability and policy
shifts between trade liberalization and protection.   Provision of a credit
line in such an environment may in fact have hindered the adoption of
necessary financial and industrial sector reforms by alloiwing them to be
postponed.    Second,  no  apparent  consideration was  given  to other



organizational arrangements (e.g. APEX lending) which might have promoted
greater competition in delivery of loan funds. Third, there was no focus on
improving accounting standards within BANADE; this undermined the credibility
of its financial statements. Specifically, BANADE did not adequately assess
portfolio risk and its accounts were kept on an accrual basis with an
inadequate provisioning policy.  Fourth, insufficient attention was paid to
BANADE's long-term financial viability, independent of Central Bank
rediscounts and external financing. Fifth, the adoption initially of fixed
interest rates on foreign currency-denominated subloans made the loan
insensitive to interest rate shifts on competing international credit lines;
this became particularly important since it turned out that international
interest rates were at their peak when the loan was approved. However, the
Bank loan also bore a fixed interest rate--which was the Bank's standard
practice until 1981.
E. Proiect Implementation
1.18     The Credit Component.  The most critical shortcoming of the loan may
have been its failure to improve substantially industrial efficiency in
Argentir.a.   Since about 80% of commitments were made between 1985 and 1987
when quantitative restrictions (QRs) covered more than 70 percent of domestic
manufacturing production, policy distortions may have led to inefficient use
of loan proceeds, especially since ERR calculations appear to have been made
for only  17 out  of  137 subprojects.   Other  important  shortfalls  in
implementation were:   (i) the slower than expected use of loan funds;
(ii) the lack of demand for subloans for energy conservation and working
capital; (iii) the lack of demand for cofinanced projects or subloans
originated by provincial banks; and (iv) the failure of INTI's contemplated
role in promoting energy conservation to materialize owing to budgetary
cutbacks.
1.19     The loan was approved on December 1, 1981, signed on November 30,
1982 and became effective on February 16, 1983, almost fourteen months from
the Board date because of delays in processing the required paperwork within
the Government.  The first subprojects were submitted for Bank approval only
in April 1985 and the first disbursement was made in November 1985.   At
appraisal, it was forecast that the loan would be fully disbursed by end-June
1985. A July 1983 Bank mission attributed low demand for investment funds to
the industrial recession and the relatively high fixed onlending interest
rates under the loan.   The mission also identified an unmet demand for
working capital to finance imported inputs for firms to increase capacity
utilization. Accordingly, in an effort to expedite its utilization, the loan
was modified (para. 1.10) to denominate all subloans in US dollars and offer
two options:   (i) a (lower) 14.1% fixed interest rate; or (ii) a variable
rate equal to LIBOR + 2.5%, with a floor of 12.1%.   A US$50.0 million
component for working capital was also included.   Following these changes,
which realigned onlending interest rates with foreign market rates, demand
for investment funds picked up, but no demand for working capital or energy
conservation subloans materialized.   The loan was therefore eventually
modified to delete allocations for these purposes (para. 1.11). To complete
the project, the Bank extended the final commitment date from December 31,
1985 to September 30, 1987.  The Closing Date was formally extended twice,



from December 31, 1986 to December 31, 1987 and again to September 30, 1988.
The loan's final disbursement was made on July 20, 1989, well beyond the
lapse of the six month "grace period" normally allowed for final
disbursements. Even so, US$15.7 million was cancelled at loan closing (paras
1.20 and 1.23).
1.20     Slow use of the credit components occurred for two reasons.  First,
by  the  time  the  loan  became effective  in  1983, successive  currency
devaluations and soaring domestic interest rates had weakened the finances of
domestically and externally-indebted firms and their banks. This experience
may have made potential subborrowers wary about borrowing in foreign
currency.   At the same time, the imposition of QRs in response to this
financial crisis discouraged new investments to increase industrial
efficiency and expand exports by the very export-competitive firms that would
have been candidates for foreign-currency borrowing. Second, the high fixed
interest rates charged initially on project subloans were only reduced in
line with market rates  nearly  three  years after effectiveness.   The
relatively high interest rates and complex procedural requirements under the
working capital component, which was included in the loan in 1985, made such
borrowing unattractive. At loan closing US$14.6 million was cancelled from
the credit component, mostly due to cancellation of commi-tments by
subborrowers.
1.21     The Role  of Provincial Banks.   No operations  originated  by
provincial banks appear to have been made.
1.22     The Role of Cofinancing.   No cofinancing  arrangements directly
linked to the Bank loan were concluded.  However, about the time of loan
negotiations, BANADE arranged US$200 million in commercial financing to fund
its operations.   Some of these funds were used to finance BANADE's local
currency commitments during the life of the project.
1.23     The Technical Assistance Component.  The Government submitted draft
TORs for the effective protection study before the original June 30, 1982
deadline, but they were considered inadequate and rejected by the Bank. This
occurred  against a background of general Government disenchantment with
measures to reduce protection, owing to the prevailing industrial recession;
however, data problems had also become evident.  In August 1982, the Bank
agreed to a modified study of effective protection to be completed by
December 1984.  However, in 1983 BANADE requested that the study be again
refocussed, this time to identify industrial subsectors with good export
potentir.l. This study was contracted to UNDP and delivered to BANADE in May
1988.  BANADE's manpower development elan led to the establishment of its
Training Institute which helped establish successful completion of technical
training as a more important criterion for advancement in BANADE, but had
little  effect in  reducing  BANADE's overstaffing.   More positively,
computerized accounting systems were installed by BANADE as foreseen at
appraisal.   These systems eventually helped  reveal the grave financial
problems faced by the institution (paras 1.35 and 1.36).  However, the Bank
did not reimburse local expenditures for acquisition and installation of
these systems because at the time of the reimbursement request, which had
been delayed, their dollar equivalent value had declined to only a fraction



- 8 -
of the original expenditures. Moreover, the Bank, on account of the delayed
submission of the reimbursement requests-- BANADE had presented a
reimbursement request covering over a year of expenditures--declined to
reimburse them at the historic exchange rate under its special provision for
countries undergoing rapid currency devaluations, which requires, among other
conditions, that reimbursement requests be presented within 90 days of
expenditure. As a result, US$1.1 million was cancelled at loan closing from
the allocation for technical assistance.
1.24     Use of Special Account.   The Special Account was never made
operational because:  (i)   BANADE and the Central Bank shared differences
about the terms of its establishment -- specifically, the Central Bank
objected to paying an above-market interest rate of 11.6% on the Bank funds;
and (ii) given the difficult external credit conditions for Argentina and the
fact that most disbursements were for equipment purchase, it was easier to
use the Bank's Special Commitment disbursement procedure to support letters
of credit.
F. Proiect Results
1.25     The Credit Component.  Statistics on subloans are shown in Annex 3.
Under the loan, BANADE financed 137 subprojects; 5 subloans exceeded the
"normal" US$2.5 million free limit; a further 33 exceeded the US$0.5 million
free limit. Under the original loan design, these cases would have required
monitoring of changes in effective protection, but this was not possible
because the requisite effective protection study was not carried out. The
total use of loan funds was US$84.0 million, and the total cost of
subprojects, as reported by subborrowers, exceeded US$260.9 million.   Some
46% of the disbursed credit amount went to small and medium enterprises (this
percentage rises to 58% if the effect of one US$18.0 million subloan made to
a large enterprise on an exceptional basis is excluded).   Some 47% of the
credit amount was used for 105 modernization subprojects;   46% went for 25
new projects, and 7% was used for 7 expansion projects. The high demand for
funds for equipment modernization was in line with expectations at appraisal.
Commitments accelerated markedly after 1985, when onlending interest rates
were reduced from their original levels. Since these rates were in line with
LIBOR it does not appear that credit subsidies accounted for this increased
demand; however it must be noted that the access of Argentine producers to
international credit markets may have become more constrained at the time,
therefore diverting demand to the Bank credit line.
1.26     Annex 3 lists all subprojects financed under Loan 2063-AR.  As of
Januai  1990, 136 of the original subloans remained in BANADE's portfolio.
Thirty of tbh-se were having payments problems. The four largest subborrowers
in arrears a. ount, respectively, for 29% and 52% of the total principal and
interest overdue.   As part of a recent effort to increase collections,
prompted by the Central Bank decision to stop new rediscounts to public
banks, BANADE has initiated legal action against, and/or is negotiating new
repayment arrangements with several subborrowers.   While the overdue loans
represent about 22% in number of the 136 subloans still in BANADE's
portfolio, the overdue amount represents 6.4% of the outstanding portfolio
under Loan 2063-AR.   The collection record under this loan is better than



- 9 -
that of BANADE's entire loan portfolio (para.1.36), probably as a result of
more rigorous preparation and evaluation procedures and less political
influence on Bank-financed loans as compared to loans funded with Government
rediscounts and/or with guarantees from the Treasury. The arrears situation
of the whole portfolio, in view of the Government decision to reduce
rediscounts, would have been worse had it not been for BANADE's efforts to
increase loan collections.
1.27     Regarding  support  for energy conservation,  the project  failed
completely. Similarly, it is not evident that any lending took place through
the provincial banks.   Clearly in both instances the appraisal mission was
unable 'o judge subloan demand accurately.
1.28     The impact of cofinancing is impossible to assess for lack of
information on the types of investments financed by the local currency loans
funded with externally- provided funds.
1.29     Regarding  the technical assistance  component, the installation of
computerized accounting systems represented the greatest success.   These
systems generated data to make transparent the grave financial problems faced
by BANADE and helped provide the basis for developing a control system to
manage them.   The manpower development Plan led to the establishment of
BANADE's Training Institute, which still operates, and helped establish
successful completion of technical training as a more important criterion for
advancement in BANADE.   However, the recommendations of a manpower study
carried out by a consultant under the previous Bank loan (Loan 1463-AR) were
not implemented because of BANADE's limited discretion as a public bank to
hire and fire staff and to determine salary levels based on performance.
Overstaffing still therefore continued to plague BANADE.   The export
promotion study had little impact during the execution of the project.   In
any event, the study did not address the issues of industrial competitiveness
and the anti-export bias of policies.
G. Proiect Sustainabilitv
1.30     The new Bank loan (Loan 2793-AR) that became effective in April
1988, five months before closing of this loan, allowed BANADE to continue
lending despite the drastic reduction in funding through Central Bank
rediscounts. The financial crises and bouts of hyperinflation that affected
Argentina since the second quarter of 1989 seriously affected BANADE, its
clients and other participating financial intermediaries. BANADE's financial
and administrative deterioration, and its non-compliance with the loan's
debt/equity covenants, disrupted the operation of the new loan.   Early in
1990, the Government named an Interventor for BANADE and later issued a
Decree ordering BANADE's restructuring with the objective of restricting it
to second-tier operations.   The inability of BANADE to function as &n
effective financial intermediary with proper financial discipline and
independence from political influence, after three Bank loans, is an
indication that the objectives of this as well as those of the new loan are
not being sustained.



- 10 -
H. Bank Performance
1.31     The appraisal mission was too optimistic regarding the capacity of
BANADE's Charter and Statement of Policy to safeguard its financial soundness
(para.  1.33).   The mission also assumed naively that monitoring BANADE's
debt/equity ratio, implementing a manpower development plan, and upgrading
its management information systems would constitute adequate Bank influence
to stimulate and see BANADE discharge a sufficient institutional development
effort. The magnitude of BANADE's portfolio problems and the resulting loss
of equity and decline in liquidity, which were only recognized in about 1988,
may have become evident sooner if BANADE's institutional development had been
monitored by a wider set of indicators than the debt/equity ratio.
Similarly, the assumption that energy conservation investments could be
stimulated by providing credit and technical assistance for energy audits
proved simplistic.   There is no evidence, for example, that an analysis of
the private incentives to invest in conservation had ever been made; this
would have been particularly important given the subsidized energy prices in
Argentina at that time.
1.32     During implementation, the Bank demonstrated salutary flexibility by
trying to restructure the project to match perceived shifts in the sources of
subloan demand. However, some of these amendments were required in the first
place by the Bank's decision initially to allocate the loan between invest-
ment and energy conservation.   Efforts to overcome weak loan demand by
reallocating funds to new end-uses (working capital) proved ineffective
because they did not account for the high transaction costs--in terms of
interest rates and information--which using Bank funds implied.   The Bank
failed to take action to ensure that the objectives of the loans of con-
tributing to greater industrial efficiency were being met after 1983, where
protection to local industries increased.   One possible action could have
been to reduce BANADE's free limit.  More generally, however, Bank super-
vision of the project was inadequate.   The major weakness was insufficient
Bank concern regarding improvement of BANADE's overall institutional situa-
tion.   The eight supervision missions were mostly one person, one week
missions which focussed on the status of loan utilization. Moreover, by early
1986 the Bank's attention began to shift to the preparation of a follow-on
operation (Small and Medium Industrial Credit Project, Loan 2793-AR).
Supervision effectiveness was further diluted by poor continuity of Bank
staff--and their counterparts--owing to the protracted implementation period.
The extent to which staff monitored the adequacy of the economic analysis
being applied in subproject appraisals--which Government trade policy shifts
during implementation would have warranted--is not clear.   Neither is it
evident that the cofinancing and regional development objectives of the
project were ever pursued.
1.33     Supervision missions also generally paid little attention to
BANADE's financial situation, beyond review of compliance with the
debt/equity covenant. The Bank, moreover, enforced the debt/equity covenant
leniently, and amended it fundamentally in 1985 (para. 1.11). At that time,
the original covenant, which referred to the maintenance of a 10:1 ratio of
all debt (guaranteed and non-guaranteed with a maturity greater than one
year) to equity was substituted by a covenant which established different



- 11 -
targets for three debt/equity ratios respectively for:  long-term unsecured
debt, unsecured debt,  and long-term debt.   The target for the latter
ratio--which was most similar in concept to the 10:1 debt/equity ratio as
originally defined--was set to decline from 28:1 to 20:1 in the period
1985-88. This liberalization weakened the covenant fundamentally, and with
it the discipline of the Bank's monitoring of BANADE's finances.   Only in
1988 under the follow-on loan (No. 2793-AR) did Bank staff focus on BANADE's
wider problems of asset quality, resource mobilization and liquidity.  The
Bank also failed to push for adequate reporting:  there is no evidence that
periodic progress reports were ever requested or provided during implementa-
tion.   Additionally,  while external audit reports were only received
sporadically by the Bank (for 1981, 1986, 1987 and 1988), the record shows
little protest by the Bank.
I. Borrower Performance
1.34     Prior to 1976, BANADE's low interest loans frequently became a
channel for subsidies to industry and particularly to deficit-ridden state
enterprises. After having lent at negative interest rates during a period of
very high inflation, by 1976 BANADE's equity was almost completely eroded and
its operations at a virtual standstill. The Government which took office in
1983, wanting to restore the role of BANADE as a term-lending financial
institution, recapitalized it through new contributions and capitalization of
BANADE's Central Bank liabilities. The Board and management appointed by the
Government adopted a new organizational structure. Under Bank loan 1463-AR,
BANADE had adopted a new Charter and Policy Statement. These were intended
to safeguard BANADE's operational autonomy, and maintain sound credit
evaluation standards and its financial viability.   The Statement of Policy
established several operational principles and limits to protect BANADE from
unreasonable financial risks.
1.35     Notwithstanding these safeguards,  the most striking aspect of
borrower performance was BANADE's institutional decline over the project's
life.   At appraisal BANADE was judged to be deficient in its personnel
practices and information and control systems. It was, however, held to have
sound financial policies, a positive net worth, a satisfactory debt/equity
ratio, and ample income.   In contrast, a 1989 review of BANADE concluded
that: (i) the institution was overbranched and overstaffed with poorly-paid,
relatively low-skilled employees, and loan approval and follow-up procedures
remained weak; (ii) its profitability was negative; and (iii) its net worth
was a very low US$34.7 million.   While the exact extent of erosion in
financial indicators was difficult to measure owing to distortions created by
hyperinflation and weaknesses in accounting standards, the conclusion that
BANADE was in need of recapitalization and restructuring was decisive.
1.36     Comparative balance sheets and income statements for BANADE in US
dollar equivalents for 1981-89 are presented in Annexes 4 and 5. The balance
sheets reveal an 82% deterioration in net equity from US$188.4 million in
1981 to US$34.7 million in 1989.   This was after substantial Government
capitalization of BANADE through grants and the liquidation of its debt to
the Central Bank between 1981 and 1983, representing an increase of more than
150% of BANADE's capital.   Following a period of positive but variable



- 12 -
results from 1981-86, BANADE's results began a downward trend. By the first
quarter of 1988 BANADE's profitability, liquidity and capital structure were
all seriously deteriorating.   Moreover, BANADE's actual position was worse
than indicated because its provisioning policy systematically underestimated
losses on loans made to state enterprises or with Government guarantees.
1.37     The c,uses of declining profitability were threefold.  First, large
losses resulted from a portfolio highly concentrated in non-performing loans
subject to weak collection efforts. In 1988 the largest 50 loans represented
some 75 percent of BANADE's total outstanding portfolio; moreover, three
fourths of them were problem loans.   Total arrears in BANADE's total loan
portfolio increased substantially after 1984, and ranged between about 16 and
21 percent in the period up to 1988 (Annex 6); in 1988 over 50 percent of the
loan portfolio was affected. Second, lags between various inflation indices
used to adjust assets and liabilities eroded operating margins as inflation
rose. Third, lcsses grew on BANADE's foreign currency denominated loans, as
they were converted--following Central Bank regulations--to lower-margin
local currency operations, and as the Government ceased honoring guarantees
extended in favor of various private and public sector debtors. This income
decline, combined with the use of lending instruments which implicitly
refinanced the inflationary component of interest rates, led to a negative
internally-generated cash flow and poor liquidity.  As a result, BANADE was
driven to depend on Central Bank rediscounts to fund fresh term lending, and
costly short-term ("call money") local borro '.ng to meet its wages, reserve
requirements, and other short-term liabilities. The eroded profitability and
reliance on short-term, high cost borrowed resources to sustain operations
eroded BANADE's equity, weakened its capital structure, and constrained its
capacity to develop new business.  In short, BANADE fell victim to a number
of internal and external forces which weakened its capacity to manage effec-
tively. Chief among these were: (i) inflation, which created distortions in
incentives and accounting information; (ii) politicized lending decisions,
with associated poor portfolio quality and weak collection efforts; (iii) an
incapacity to mobilize stable, lower cost, resources and a resulting reliance
on politically-driven Central Bank rediscounts and high cost, short term
borrowings for survival; and (iv) unstable management--during project imple-
mentation, BANADE's President and the manager in charge of the project both
changed a number of times. Meanwhile, BANADE's still-inadequate accounting,
information and control systems limited its capacity, and perhans perceived
need, to manage more effectively.
1.38     This project demonstrates  important  lessons for the design and
supervision during a financial crisis of credit projects in which Bank
lending is intermediated by a public bank. Several of these lessons have by
now been discussed widely within the Bank (see the Report of the Financial
Sector Operations Task Force issued in August 1989), but they will be
repeated here.
1.39     First,  the project shows the difficulty of implementing credit
operations  in an unstable economy with high inflation.   Only very tight
monitoring of subproject selection, the financial impact of shifting relative
prices, and the condition of financial intermediaries could ensure the
economic validity of the projects being financed and the viability of



- 13 -
enterprises and financial institutions.   In this project, where ERRs were
computed for only 12% of subprojects accounting for 48% of lending, and where
overall monitorinf' of BANADE was lax, this was not the case.
1.40     Second,  the project demonstrates the difficulty of maintaining a
public bank as an effective financial intermediary, owing to the risk that
political  intervention will undermine  its portfolio quality.   BANADE's
Charter and Policy Statement failed to shield its Board from political
influences.  Even if these influences did not directly play a role in Bank-
financed subloans, they contributed to the deterioration of BANADE's wider
portfolio and its resultant institutional decline.   This decline remained
unremedied partly as a result of the weak system of prudential regulation and
supervision by the Central Bank.   In these circumstances,  the Bank should
have required the establishment and maintenance of a far-reaching Action
Plan, monitoring agreed targets--in a consistent and credible manner--inter
alia for:   (i) portfolio recovery (based on a thorough portfolio audit);
(ii) resource mobilization other than through Government rediscounts;
(iii) strengthening of management and auditing and of lending practices and
procedures; and (iv) the adoption of adequate accounting standards to reflect
properly the loan portfolio value and interest accrued.   Moreover, besides
the debt/equity ratio, the Bank should have monitored other indications such
as solvency and liquidity ratios, level of arrears, operating costs and the
match between the maturity, interest rate and currency configurations of
BANADE's assets and liabilities.
1.41     Third, the project demonstrates the futility of trying to forecast
demand for credit for diverse end-uses in a turbulent environment. What was
needed was a global line of credit for productive purposes, rather than one
allocated between industrial investment, energy conservation, and/or working
capital.
1.42     Fourth,  the project demonstrates the need to prepare technical
assistance activities carefully in advance and to implement them rapidly,
since the relevance of studies and the interest, both by the Bank and
counterpart authorities, is subject to fast erosion.
1.43     Finally, the project reveals the need to maintain market-based terms
and conditions on subloans at all times, in order to maintain subborrowers'
participation.
J. Project Relationship
1.44     Relationships between BANADE and the Bank were generally cordial.
However, friction arose periodically between the Bank and the Government over
the need to carry out the study of effective protection and over the Bank's
refusal to reimburse the costs of the computerization program (para. 1.23).
Because of the long implementation period and political changes in Argentina,
there was a lack of continuity in personnel associated with the project.
K. Proiect Documentation and Data
1.45     The legal agreements,  including the various amendments, generally
provided the parties with adequate rights, protections and clarifications



- 14 -
during project  implementation.   The deficiencies  in Bank and borrower
performance noted above arose from the manner in which they were followed.
1.46     Basic data for the preparation of this PCR were generally readily
available from BANADE and Project Files.  The main deficiencies were in the
contents of various supervision reports which, as noted above, neglected to
treat certain aspects of the project.



- 15 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Prepared by BANADE)
Project Development and Implementation
2.01     BANADE's objective in initiating the request for a new loar in 1980
was to give it the same uses as the First Industrial Project (Loan 1463-AR),
which supported the modernization and expansion of the industrial sector,
recognizing that the latter, implemented at the end of 1977, had been diffi-
cult to commit as a result of the general downturn of the economy; while, at
the same time, understanding the need to provide continuity for long-term
financing to encourage new investment in industry.
2.02     The first World Bank mission, in November 1980, included an energy
conservation expert from the University of Pittsburgh who carried out a study
to include in the operation an energy conservation program, with the assis-
tance of the National Institute of Industrial Technology (INTI).
2.03     To this was added the participation of the Provincial banks and the
carrying out of a study of the impact of changes in the industrial incentive
system, as well as a Development Program for BANADE's staff and a Management
Information System.
2.04     The project was approved by the World Bank on December 1, 1981, and
by BANADE on January 22, 1982, with the Government's guarantee, obtained
through an Executive Power Decree on November 19, 1982.   The Project and
Guarantee Agreements were signed on November 30, 1982, with effectiveness
taking place February 16, 1983.
2.05     Without describing all t1  steps that had to be complied with by
February 16, 1983, it is enough to say that it took countless hours of work
and great effort to overcome obstacles, oft6n outside the sphere of BANADE,
and sometimes the result of the change of authorities, insurmountable con-
tracting systems, etc.  Notwithstanding the efforts, project implementation
was not possible: conditions within the country had changed substantially;
we went through the Falkland Islands war; Argentina was in arrears on its
financial foreign debt; investment decreased markedly, and demand was
paralyzed.
2.06     In view of the above,  and analyzing th-- situation In the lor'l
market, there was an attempt to change the purpose of the loan, through a
letter sent to the World Bank in April 1983, which indicated that the -rost
immediate use of the loan would be for prefinanci-g or fiaancing exports and
financing imports of inputs for exporting industries.   There wab a]so an
effort to introduce a component to finance the conversion to gas of indus-
tries using hydrocarbons.
2.07     In the meantime, the cost of money in the international market had
decreased and the 11.6% annual interest rate of the Bank loans plus 5 points
(1.5 for risk derived from the basket of currencies and 2.5 as spread in
favor of BANADE), made it non-competitive. The World Bank, which in the face
of the volatility of the currencies, was beginning to apply variable rates to
new loans, maintained a policy of no change in the face of the current rates.



- 16 -
2.08     In July  1983,  the World Bank presented a proposal to introduce
changes in the Loan Agreement, subject to compliance with new requirements,
such as Government's commitment of new capital contributions in order to
maintain the debt/equity ratio; establishment of a counterpart hedging fund
and the opening of the Special Account in the Central Bank with a view toward
speeding up the disbursements of the new component of working capital and to
accumulate amortizations until such resources were once again lent, bearing
interests in favor of BANADE at the annual rate of 11.6%, etc.
2.09     BANADE tried to comply with these objectives  through notes and
contacts wich the Central Bank and the Ministry of Economy, but these efforts
were useless in view of the decision of the Military Government to call for
general elections that year.
2.10     On the other hand, in November 1983, the World Bank informed BANADE
that it was suspending consideration of changes to the contract for some
time, in view of the lack of agreement between Argentina and the inter-
national community and because of the lack of approval by the World Bank of
the plans of the Government of Argentina.
2.11     In January 1984, once the change of government had taken place, the
World Bank resumed negotiations.   BANADE obtained a commitment from the
Treasury that it would assume the currency pool risk, and the criteria for
evaluating the debt/equity ratio was changed, excluding from the liabilities
the operations guaranteed by the Treasury.  It became obvious that INTi did
not have counterpart funds to carry on the energy conservation program and
negotiations continued.
2.12     In the meantime and until the contract was changed, BANADE requested
authorization to use funds to give investment subloans at an annual interest
rate of 14.1% (which, in any case, was outside the market rate and was not
accepted by potential users).
2.13     In July 1984, the World Bank sent its proposal for amending the
contract, stating that, in order to incorporate the financing of working
capital, it would first be necessary to approve the review of BANADE's
policies and operating procedures as well as new agreements with the Central
Bank for maintenance of the accounts.
2.14     Negotiations cintinued; the Central Bank refused to recognize the
11.6% rate on the balances of the accounts that would have been opened and
the correspondent banks recognized an annual interest rate of 9-1/8% at most.
2.15     The World Bank was then informed that the disbursement process,
through credit letters, with reimbursement guarantees, would be used, and on
February 15, 1985, the World Bank confirmed that the credit line for the
granting of investment subloans could continue to be used because the amend-
ment did not prevent it.
2.16     In the meantime, the study of effective protection was substituted
by one linked to the encouragement of exports to be carried out under the
Project.



- 17 -
2.17     High interest rates continued to bz a problem for the placement of
funds and, because of this, the World Bank accepted that in the subloans a
provision would be made to utilize the rate negotiated, which, as a minimum,
was 12.1% per annum, but only until May 1985, the date on which the Amendment
became effective.
2.18     In March 1985, a legal counsel from the World Bank travelled to
Buenos Aires to discuss the Amendment to the project prepared by the World
Bank in February.   It was agreed that the changes to be introduced to the
Technical Assistance component and to the study to be financed would be
agreed on a separate letter and reflected in the entire agreement, but not in
the Amendment, and in April 1985, the World Bank sent the draft Amendment to
the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, and BANADE granted intervention by the
Ministry of Economy.
2.19     With regard to the amendments to be agreed separately, in June 1985
a letter was sent to the World Bank, the text of which was prepared by the
World Bank, signed by the President of BANADE, and by the M4inister of
Economy, indicating their agreement to the amendments. Such letter was to be
signed by the World Bank and returned to BANADE; its compliance was
reiterated by telex dated June 17, 1985, without receiving a reply.
2.20     In view of the demand for investment projects,  it was requested
that, in the meantime, the agreed period be complied with in order to
continue sending operations for approval by the World Bank.
2.21     In August 1985, BANADE approved the Amendment and on September 30,
1985, the Executive Power approved the text of the same. Both documents were
signed in Washington on November 27, 1985.
2.22     The World Bank included in the Amendment the changes agreed to in
the letter signed by the President of BANADE and the Minister of Economy.
This resulted in the text of the Amendment approved by the executive Power
Decree not coinciding with the one signed in Washington, which producee
corresponding delays in obtaining the legal opinions in Argentina to overcome
such problems.
2.23     In the meantime,  the World Bank delayed the approval of subloans
submitted, as well as the utilization of the funds for the approved projects,
subjecting disbursements to the effectiveness of the Amendment. At that time
there were 17 approved projects that could not be implemented.
2.24     On January 21, 1986, the legal opinion of the Treasury Attorney,
accepting the changes introduced in the Contract Amendment, was sent to the
World Bank and on January 23, 1986, the World Bank declared its effec-
tiveness.
2.25     On March 12, 1986, BANADE requested (in face of the possibility that
utilization of resources would be exclusively centered on investment
projects) a change of categories, increasing to US$99.5 million the amount
for the same and keeping US$500,000 for technical assistance.  At the same
time it was also necessary to return to the flexible amortization system,
given that in the Amendment a fixedi reimbursement plan had been agreed.



- 18 -
2.26     In May 1986, the World Bank accepted the change in categories, but
maintained US$500,000 for working capital (a line that could not be placed
because of its cost and the complex information required by the World Bank,
whereas in the market these short-term businesses were processed fast and
require minimum information to be supplied by the companies).   It also
accepted the change in the amortization plan.
2.27     In December 1986, 102 operations, amounting to US$63.6 million, had
been sent to the World Bank for approval.   There were projects under
consideration that exceeded the available resources, which required an exten-
sion of 120 days in the implementation period, which was to expire on
December 12, 1986.
2.28     That same month the World Bank requested additional informatior.,
including a proposed disbursement 3chedule.  The World Bank also indicated
that it should take into account the changes that could be expected in the
categories, taking into consideration what had been discussed during the
appraisal mission for the Small and Medium Industrial Credit Project (SMI,
Loan 2793-AR) with regard to financing with resources from the new loan--an
amount of around US$1 million for computer equipment for the new project.
This situation was reflected in the working document of the mission that
analyzed 4 he SMI project.
2.29     In February 1987, the proposed disbursement schedule requested was
sent tc T=he World Bank, along with a request for a change of categories:
US$98.8 rxLalion for Investment Subprojects and US$1.1 million for Technical
Assistance, clarifying that in this Tay the US$1.1 million could be assigned
to the E.:quisition of computers needed to implement the SMI Project
(US$1 millP:t.n for computer equipment and US$100,000 for studies to be carried
out under s_ch project).
2.30     Ct i,ril 6, 1987, the application forms for the purchases to be made
with resour' es from Loan 2063-AR for the SMI project were sent to the World
Bank, clarifying that in the technical assistance item the US$220,000 to
finish paying for the study carried out by the United Nations had been
omitted; thus, the loan categories should have been as follows:
US$98.6 million fcr investment subprojects and US$1.3 million for Technical
Assistance; information on the computer equipment to be purchased or leased
was to be sent later.
2.31     It was also necessary to request a new extension to present projects
for World Bank approval.
2.32     Through a letter dated April 27, 1987, the World Bank accepted the
requested reassignment of categories, and extended the closing date to
September 30, 1987.  This letter, signed by the President of BANADE, indi-
cated agreement and was delivered to the World Bank official in charge of
Loan 2063-AR, who was in Buenos Aires at that time.
2.33     Although the amount assigned for Technical Assistance included the
funds required for the SMI Project, this was not specified in the letter sent
by the World Bank, and no one realized it because the request for such
reassignment indicated its purpose.



- 19 -
2.34     Finally, and in view of the delay in the preparation and formaliza-
tion of the projects, a new extension was requested until December 29, 1987,
to present subprojects for approval, which was accepted by the World Bank.
2.35     Since progress had been made in the SMI Project, in September 1988 a
request was sent for reimbursement of expenses incurred and details were
given of the expenses to be incurred from the US$1 million in Technical
Assistance.
2.36     In October 1988, the e..tension, until June 29, 1989, was approved
for disbursements of the approved projects and, on November 2, 1988,
US$9 million was cancelled from the loan funds because some of the companies
abandoned the approved projects; a reply on the expenses incurred under the
Technical Assistance component was also requested.
2.37     On November 21, 1988, BANADE received a telex asking BANADE to send
the application for reimbursement of computer equipment expenses, but on
December 13, 1988, the World Bank advised BANADE that there was no evidence
that the transfer of technical assistance funds from Loan 2063-AR to Loan
2793-AR tn the amount of US$1.1 million had been agreed on.
2.38     From then on there was differing information related to this
subject, with BANADE trying to have the World Bank recognize the expenses
incurred, and in June 1989, a 90-day extension was requested to process the
reimbursement of technical assistance expenditures.
2.39     In August 1989, BANADE was informed that the telex requesting the
extension was received and that the World Bank would reimburse the funds in
local currency, using the historic exchange rate, without adjustment for
inflation. Any exception, in view of the loss of value of the Austral, had
to be considered at the highest levels within the World Bank.
2.40     Finally, and after different alternatives, the World Bank decided in
September 1989 not to make the disbursement for expenses incurred by BANADE
under the technical assistance component.
2.41     Based on the utilization of Loan 2063-AR,  it originated of 137
projects, amounting to US$84.0 million disbursed, of which 25 operations were
new projects (18.24%), 15 of which were located in the San Luis Province, 1
in San Juan, 2 in Santiago del Estero, and 1 in Cordoba, 2 in Mendoza (among
them the most important one, Petroquimica de Cuyo), 3 in the Great Buenos
Aires area, and 1 in Buenos Aires. The 137 projects created 4,209 new jobs.
2.42     The first disbursement of the Loan took place in 1985 and its utili-
zation was slow, with disbursements being made through the opening of import
letter of credit with reimbursement guarantees from the World Bank.
2.43     Because of the devaluation of the US dollar in relation to other
currencies, there were problems with the World Bank reimbursement guarantees
because they were issued exclusively in US dollars and did not cover the
amounts of the letters of credit at the time of their negotiation--having to
negotiate their increase on a case by case basis, until it was decided to
give the credits with a 10% and a 20% surplus to avoid this situation.



- 20 -
2.44     These problems  could have been avoided  if xne reimbursement
mechanism of advances on account had been used, but after the Amendment the
World Bank established that BANADE should receive an interest rate of 11.6%
(financing cost) for the balances not utilized and that rate was too high and
off the market, which made the opening of accounts provided for in the
Amendment unfeasible.
2.45     The loan was almost completely committed to projects approved by the
World Bank, but several companies gave up in formalizing the subprojects
approved and this, in the end, reduced the total amount used, with advance
cancellation of US$9.0 million from the loan and later the balance of
US$6.7 million, which resulted in the total disbursed amount for investment
subloans reaching US$84.0 million and US$256,826 under the technical assis-
tance component.
2.46     With respect  to the Technical Assistance  component,  at the
beginning, the US$500,000 assigned for this purpose was to be used to finance
the study on effective protection of the industrial sector, a program to
promote energy conservation, a staff development program for BANADE, and the
establishment of an information anid management control system.
2.47     in practice, the study on effective protection, which was to be
carried out by the Ministry of Economy under the coordination of BANADE, in
the end was substituted with a program to plan the necessary policies for the
expansion of industrial exports, contracted under the United Nations Program,
which was completed and delivered to BANADE, satisfactorily complying with
the terms of reference.
2.48     In this regard, the Economic Research Management of BANADE prepared
a Working Document which highlighted the fundamental aspect of the study
applicable to the work of BANADE and the actions to be developed to promote
the development of the exporting sector, thus giving a practical sense to the
conclusions of the study carried out.
2.49     The program to promote energy conservation was abandoned because
INTI did not have the funds to cover its cost, with a change in the govern-
ment taking place in the meantime, etc. The World Bank was to finance 45% of
the cost of the program.
2.50     The staff development plan for BANADE created the Training Institute
of BANADE, which has been functioning continuously, carrying out different
internal training courses, as well as arranging BANADE's participation in
external courses and seminars, both inside and outside the country.
2.51     The Staff Development Plan, in turn, brought about the contracting
of a consultant whose cost was financed with funds from Loan 1463-AR, which,
in practice, was not very useful to BANADE which in some aspects such as
salaries, has limited room of maneuver.
2.52     Lastly, and with respect to the information and management control
system, the set goals were completely achieved, with progress made in the
development of new programs, financed completely by BANADE because it did not
obtain assistance from the World Bank, in spite of efforts in this regard.



- 21 -
Lessons Learned
2.53     From the analysis of the development and execution of the project
the following conclusions can be derived:
(a) The time required to prepare a line of credit makes its effec-
tive use uncertain in the face of the changing and generally
altered global economic situation in Argentina.
(b) The reduction of the negotiation period and effectiveness of
the credit facilities should be an objective that cannot be
delayed, although in practice this is not easy because the
previous requirements that have to be met by the borrowers that
sometimes are out of their control, demand considerable efforts
that are not always successful.
(c) It is understandable that the World Bank seeks to strengthen
the entities that end up as borrowers of its credits; sometimes
such requirement helps attain objectives that usually the
borrower cannot obtain directly.   But, experience indicates
that the time that it takes makes the credit very costly and
sometimes not very efficient, because of the changes taking
place in the meantime that alter the markets and the investment
decisions of the potential users.
(d) The change of government, policies, inflation, and the general
instability of the economy have been a constant throughout the
life of the loan and although these are external factors to the
World Bank and BASADE, they cannot be dismissed because of
their influence on the concretion and development of the loan.
(e)   It is commendable that the World Bank wishes to introduce in
its loans new destinations for its financing and experts from
foreign universities can detect suitable fields for this, as
has been the case in this project of incorporating a program
for energy conservation.   However,  experience indicates the
need to examine this type of measure thoroughly in the future,
since even after enormous efforts with the entity that had to
intervene in the program, it was not feasible to carry out its
development and execution and its participation was necessary
in order to generate a non-existent demand.
(f)   It is difficult to place resources in the long term with inter-
est rates that do not reflect the market situation.   It is
possible that this was one of the last loans granted by the
World Bank at a fixed rate, since the Bank reviewed its policy
to come closer to the reality of the international capital
market.  However, it refused to change the rates of the loans
already approved and this reduced the possibility of utilizing
the credit facilities.



- 22 -
(g)   We are left with the experience of the impossibility to respond
to changing needs of the economic situation through this type
of financing, since agreeing on changes takes as much or more
time than preparing a new loan and by the time these has been
achieved the reason for the request has already disappeared,
presenting at the same time difficulties in operating the
facilities under the original conditions. This is specifically
related to the working capital component.
(h)   At the end, the funds were placed through the traditional
demand for the financing of imports of capital goods.   This
demand began to materialize in 1985, when an agreement was
reached to set a minimum annual iaLterest rate of 12.1%.
Because of this, it was necessary to request successive exten-
sions of the final date to send projects for World Bank
approval, a situation that was always agreed to by the Bank.
(i)   Another lesson learned is the need to follow-up each and every
agreement reached with World Bank missions in order to
corroborate its complete and proper instrumentation. Not doing
this follow-up resulted in BANADE's not being able to use funds
from the Technical Assistance component of this loan to buy
computers for the SMI Project (Loan 2793-AR), although the
World Bank had agreed to increase this component for that
purpose.
Effectiveness of relations between the World Bank and BANADE
2.54        Relations between the World Bank and BANADE were always cordial
and proper.  It should be mentioned, however, that during the execution of
this project we had four changes of World Bank staff in charge of the project
and this undoubtedly affected somewhat the relationship as there was no con-
tinuity. Each new project officer had to start by learning about the project
and the borrower institution, sometimes having differences of opinions in
judging similar situations.
2.55     This situation of repeated changes also took place in BANADE, mainly
because of retirement from BANADE of the two staff members that, at some
point, were in charge of the project.  Because of this, it was necessary to
carry out the global analysis of its development based on the documentation
in BANADE's files.
2.56     We have noted, because of its frequency, that some of the communica-
tions by telex addressed to Bank staff by name do not always reach them.
Also, we have received telexes reminding us of messages that we had not
received. This, we assume, must have had to do with communications problems
within the World Bank.
2.57     We also tended to have probler' with the receipt of the Disbursement
Notices, which did not arrive witi. the necessary timeliness to keep our
records up to date, since there has been, on average, a delay of one month
between the date of the Notice and its receipt in BANADE. This has brought
about frequent observations from the external auditor, especially at the
close of each fiscal year.



- 23 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title            Purpose           Approval    Status           Comments
Industrial            To support           1977      Closed      It took nearly
Credit Project        modernization                              five years to
Loan 1463-AR          and expansion                              commit the loan.
of manufacturing                           Final closing was
enterprises                                10/25/85, almost
through a                                  four years later
US$100 million                             than 12/31/81 as
credit line.                               initially
contemplated.
Small and Medium      To finance SMIs      1987      In          About US$30
Industries Project   projects through                progress   million committed
Loan 2793-AR          a US$125 million                           to date.  The
APEX operation                             financial
using BANADE as a                          situation of
second-tier bank                          BANADE and other
and commercial                             participating
banks and BANADE as                        banks is under
first-tier lenders.                       review to assess
the impact of
current financial
crisis.



- 24 -
2. Project Timetable
Date             Date               Date
Item                 Planned           Revised            Actual
Identification                                                9/25/78
(Executive Project
Summary)
Preparation                                                   11/10/80
Appraisal Mission                                              2/16/81
Loan/Credit
Negotiations             6/15/81                           9/30/81
Board Approval                 8/81                           12/01/81
Loan/Credit
Signature                                                  11/30/82
Loan/Credit
Effectiveness             2/16/83                           2/16/83
Loan/Credit Closing        12/31/86          12/31/87
9/30/88         9/30/88
Loan/Credit Completion   12/31/85             9/30/87
3.  Loan/Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ '000)
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Appraisal Estimate        15    35    60    100   100   100   100   100
Actual                     0      0      0       0    9.5    40.8   69.8   84.3|a
Actual as X of Estimate    -      -      -      -     9.5   40.8   69.8   84.3
Date of First Disbursement        11/15/85
Initial Loan Closing Date         12/31/86
First Extension Loan Closing Date    12/31/87
Second Extension Loan Closing Date    9/30/88
Date of Last Disbursement          7/20/89
/a A total of US$15.73 millioi. was cancelled from the undisbursed portion
of the loan. The final disbursement was US$11,824.68 on 7/20/89.



- 25 -
4. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                                         Period                Staff Weeks
(FY)
Through Appraisal                                              80                     6.0  /b
Appraisal through Board Approval                               82                    15.2
Board Approval Through Effectiveness /c
Supervision                                                    82-89                 77.4
TOTAL                                                              96.6
B. Missions
Honth/   Number of   No. Of   Staff   Dates of   Overall Project   Types of
Activity            Year       Persons    Weeks    Weeks   Report        Status Rating       Problems
Identification                4/79                  1.4                5/15/79
Preparation
11/80       2         3         6       12/05/80
Appraisal                     2/81        2.5       4       10         11/5/81
Revision of L/A               8/82        2         2        4          9/7/82
Revision of L/A               3/83        4         2        8          7/1/83          3    m,f,p
Subtotal                                                  28
Supervision                   4/83        2         2.2      4.4       7/01/83          3    m,f,p
Supervision                   2/84        1         1        1         2/29/84          n/a  n/a
Supervision                   2/85        1         1        1          3/4/85          3    f,p
Supervision                   6/85        1         1        1        10/21/85          3
Supervision                   3/86        1         1        1         3/20/86          2
Supervision                  10/ 6        1         1        1        10/30/86          2
Supervision                   2/88        2         1        2          5/2/88          2
Supervision                   9/88        1.3      3         4        10/26/88          2
Subtotal                                                  15.4
lb  Staff weeks include only those weeks spent in the field for the Preparation
Mission of 11/11/80 - 11/26/80, with two staff participating. Data for other
portions of the cycle was taken from the MIS.
/c  Information was not available from the MIS.
/d  f-financial;  m-mangerial;  t-technical;  p-political;  o-other
/e  Combined with SPN of Loan 1463-AR.
/f  Combined with 7/01/83 report for Loan 1463-AR.  About 90% of staff tine was
dedicated to the supervision of Loan 2063-AR and 10 to Loan 1463-AR.
L&  Combined with 7/01/83 report for Loan 1463-AR.



- 26 -
5. Status of Covenants
Covenant                 Description of Condition             Status              Comments
LnlCr       Appraisal
Agreement   Report
2.02        3.14       (a) establishes maximum loan           Yes
amount of US$5.0 million
equivalent; and (b) establishes
free limit loans of
US$2.5 million equivalent.
2.02       N/A         In 11127185 amendment establishes    Partial    No loans were made ,or energy
(iii)(b)               allocation of loan proceeds:                       conservation or working
Energy Conservation subloans:                      capital; these funds; were
US$10.0 million; other subloans:                   reallocated to be used for
US$39.5 million; Technical                         equipment purchase and
Assistance:  US$0.5 million and                    technical assistance.
Working Capital loans: US$50.0
million.
2.04       3.12        Closing Date to be Dec. 31, 1986.    No            Closing Date was extended twice
to: 12/31187 and 12129/88.
The 6-month grace period for
disbursement ended 6130189.
2.09       NIA         In 11127/85 amendment.  The            No          The Special Account was not
Borrower to open and maintain a                    opened because loans were mostly
US$5.0 million equivalent Special                  for equipment purchase, and given
Account.                                           the difficult external credit
conditions for Argentina, it was
easier to open letters of credit
under the Special Commitment
procedure.
4.02       2.52        The Borrower to have its accounts    Partial    External audit reports were only
and financial statements for each                  received sporadically by the Bank
fiscal year audited by an external                 (for 1981, 1986, 1987, and 1988)
auditor and to furnish to the Bank,
no later than six months after the
end of the year, copy of these
audited statements.
4.02       N/A         In 11127186 Amendment.  The            No          No reports on the equity ratios
(iii)(b)               Borrower to furnish to the Bank                    were provided quarterly; they
no later than 30 days after each                  were provided as part of the
calendar quarter, a report with                    annual audit.
the calculations of the various
debt-to-equity ratios.
4.05       N/A         In 11/27/85 Amendment.  The            Partial    By December 1988, BANADE would have
Borrower to maintain at all                        not been in compliance with the
times a ratio of consolidated                      debt/equity ratios if Central Bank
long-term  unsecured debt to                      norms about provisioning had been
consolidated capital and                           applied. This loan is closed, but
surplus of not more than 10                        the Bank is pursuing this issue
to 1; a ratio of consolidated                      under Loan 2793-AR which has the
unsecured debt to consolidated                     same covenant.
capital and surplus of 15 to 1;
and a ratio of consolidated
long-term debt to consolidated
capital and surplus of no more
than 28 to 1 juring the year
1985, 26 to 1 during the year
1986, 23 to 1 during the year
1987, and 20 to 1 during the
year 1988 and each year
thereafter.
Lh Paragraph reference.



- 27 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2063-AR)
BANADE - SUBPROJECT PROFILE
(as of 11/27/89)
No.      X        Amount        X
(US$'000)
By Size of Subloan
Up to US$100,000                       25      18.24      1,695        2.01
US$100,On1-US$250,000                  48      32.65    22,303        8.72
US$250,001-US$500,000                  37      25.17    89,906       35.15
US$500,001-US$1,000,000                20      14.59    13,519        16.09
US$1,000,001-US$5,000,000              17      12.40    33,144       39.44
More than US$5,000,000                   1      0.77    17,998        21.45
Total                              137    100.00    84.016       100.00
By Size of Subprojects
Up to US$250,000                       50      36.49       6,833         2.61
US$250,001-US$1,000,000                47      34.30     21,101          8.08
US$1,000,C01-US$5,000,000              37      27.00     88,424         33.88
More than US$5,000,000                  3       2.21    144,604         55.43
Total                              137    100.00    260.964        100.00
By Size of Enterpzrise
Small                                  58      42.33      17,437       20.75
Medium                                 48      35.03      21,353        25.41
Large                                  31      22.64      45.224       53.84
Total                              137    100.00      84,016       100.00
By Maturity
Less than 1 year                        0       0.0            0         0.0
1 to 3 years                            0       0.0            0        0.0
3 to 5 years                           30      21.89      5,336         6.35
More than 5 years                     107      78.11      78,680        93.65
Total                              137    100.00      84.016       100.00
Source: BANADE



- 28 -                    ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
BANADE - DISTRIBUTION OF SUBPROJECTS
No.      Z        Amount          Z
(US$'000)
By Region
Capital Federal                         23      16.78      6,231       7.41
Gran Buenos Aires                       38      27.73     15,704      18.69
Provincia de Buenos Aires               12       8.75      4,474       5.32
Provincia de Catamarca                   2       1.45      3,563       4.24
Provincia de Cordoba                     3       2.18      1,045       1.24
Provincia de Chubut                      2       1.45        322        .38
Provincia de Entre Rios                  1        .72         138       .16
La Rioja                                 3       2.18        697        .83
Mendoza                                  7       5.10     19,669      23.41
Neuquen                                  2       1.45      2,455       2.92
San Juan                                 3       2.18      2,368       2.81
San Luis                                21      15.32     14,426      17.17
Santa Fe                                 8       5.83      6,574       7.82
Santiago del Estero                      2       1.45      3,128       3.72
Tucuman                                  4       2.91      1,159       1.38
Tierra del Fuego, Antartida e Is         6       4.52      2,055       2.50
Total                                137    100.00      84.016    100.00
By Sector
Foodstuffs (except Beverages)            5       3.64      2,290       2.72
Beverages                                3       2.18        424        .50
Textiles                                44      32.11     21,679      25.80
Shoes and Clothing                       7       5.10      3,249       3.86
Wood & Cork (except Furniture)           1        .72          73       .08
Paper & Paper Products                   9       6.56      4,714       5.61
Printing                                13       9.48      3,058       3.64
Leather & Leather and Skin Products    1          .72          49       .05
Rubber Products                          2       1.45      1,053       1.25
Chemical Substances and Products         7       5.10     19,658      23.39
Mineral Products (non-metallic)          5       3.64      4.466       5.31
Metal industries (basic)                 4       2.91      1.267       1.58
Metal Products (except Machinery)       11       8.02      6.387       7.60
Machinery (except Electric)              2       1.45        487        .57
Electric Machinery                       4       2.91      5,422       6.47
Transport                                2       1.45        420        .50
Various Manufacturing                   12       8.75      6,968       8.29
Construction                             3       2.18      2.121       2.52
Public Utilities                         2       1.63        203        .34
Total                                137    100.00      84.016    100.00
By Financing Purpose
New projects                            25      18.24     38,340      45.63
Expansion                                7       5.10      5,925       7.05
Modernization                          105      76.66     39,750      47.32
Total                               137    100.00      84,016    100.00



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2063-AR)
BANADE - OUTSTANDING ARREARS UNDER LOAN 2063-AR AS OF 1/24/90
(USS' 000)
No. of       No. of Payments                 Overdue Amounts
Subloans           Overdue           Total    Principal    Interest
Less than one year                                51             3,271
More than one year                                20               847
Total Arrears                30                 71             4,181         2,551        1.631
Portfolio Total
Total subloans granted    137
Total Subloans
Outstanding              136
Total amount of the
Outstanding
Portfolio              65,641
Arrears as Z of the
balance of the
Portfolio                  6.36



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
SUBPROJECTS IN ARREARS UNDER LOAN 2063-AR
(At  Sources of Firnancing as of 1/24/90 in USS'000)
Amount       Overdue           Overdue             Total              Total
Company                               Outstanding  Principal   (%)   Interest   (%)   Overdue    (X)   Exposure    (X)
(1)          (2)               (3)            (4)=(2+3)           (5)=(1+4)
1.  Fadeal                              3,188           0       0.0       287    17.6      287       6.9      3,476    22.4
2.  Surarco SA                            229          23       0.9        48      3.0      71       1.7        300      1.9
3.  Textil Villa Maipu                     87          17       0.7         6      0.4      24       0.6        111      0.7
4.  Guipure La Rioja SA y Guipure         107          22       0.9        16      1.0      39       0.9        146      0.9
S.  Pasadena SA                         1,333         273      10.7       186    11.4      458      11.0      1,792    11.5
6.  Supercemento SA                       914         102       4.0       184    11.3      286       6.8      1,200      7.7
7.  Fara SCA                              241          60       2.4        46      2.8      106      2.5        347      2.2
8.  Reinforced Plastic                    396          50       1.9        27      1.7       76      1.8        473      3.0
9.  Grafexsa                              367          68       2.6        44      2.7      112      2.7        479      3.1
10.  Ricardo Mario Bravo                    45          45       1.8        14      0.8      59       1.4        104      0.7
11.  J. Cartellone Const C.                490          61       2.4        33      2.0      95       2.3        585      3.8
12.  San Sebastian SA                       67          50       2.0        18      1.1      68       1.6        135      0.9
13.  Kiwisa y Etviro Cuadrado              522           0       0.0        55     3.4       55       1.3        577      3.7
14.  PapeLera San Vicente                   91         182       7.2        57     3.5      239       5.7        330      2.1
15.  Vanar SA                              108         324      12.7        59     3.6      382       9.1        490      3.2
16.  Fluidmec Saic                         115          29       1.1         9     0.5       37       0.9        152      1.0
17.  Marviplast SA                           0          80       3.1        18      1.1      98       2.3         98      0.6
18.  Las 4 Barras Saic                     119          89       3.5        38      2.3     127       3.0        246      1.6
19.  Tejedurias Homero La Rioja             78         104       4.1        24      1.5     128       3.1        206      1.3
20.  Aldo Oscar Martinez                   107          81       3.2        29      1.8      110      2.6        217      1.4
21.  Ceramica Sassuolo SA               1,269          363      14.2       186    11.4      549      13.1      1,818    11.7
22.  Jose Cartellone                       247          70       2.8        17      1.0      87       2.1        334      2.2
23.  Textit Monterrey                        0          95       3.7        31      1.9      126      3.0        126      0.8
24.  Saia Pascual                          136          45       1.8        21      1.3      66       1.6        201      1.3
25.  TextiL el Mirador Fu                  274         164       6.4        70      4.3     234       5.6        507      3.3
26.  Colorama Laboratorio                   69          28       1.1        11      0.7       39      0.9        108      0.7
27.  Ameyca SA                             378          54       2.1        49      3.0      103      2.5        480      3.1
28.  Caele SA                              308          44       1.7        40      2.4      84       2.0        391      2.5
29.  Fototipia Linfoseter                    19          10      0.4         4      0.2       14      0.3         33      0.2
30.  Taboada SRL                             28          18      0.7         5      0.3       23      0.6         51      0.3
Total                          11.333       2.551    100.0    1.631   100.0   4.181    100.0    15.514   100.0



Annex 3
Page 1 of 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2063-AR
Subproject       Company                              Sector                   Investment      FRR (%)   ERR (%)          IBRD     Status
No.                                                                           Purposes                             Financing
(US$000)
2A-01       Petroquimica Cuyo SA          Chemical Substances and Products  new                    17       21         17,999       normal
2A-02       Fialsa SA                     Textiles                            new                  28       26          1,815       normal
2A-04       Pecom Nec SA                  Electric Machinery                  new                 137       22          4,349       normal
2A-05       Alfodonera del Valle          Textiles                            modernization        50       i8          3,447       normal
2A-06       Fadeal                        Metal Products                      modernization         0        0          3,188       normal
2B-01       Serpina SA                    Textiles                            modernization         0        0            162       normal
2B-02       Hilvansa SA                   Textiles                            new                  56       41            994       normal
2B-03       Mecca Castelar                Metal Industries (basic)            modernization         0        0            136       normal
2B-04       Fialsa SA                     Textiles                            new                  28       26          1,314       normal
2B-05       Industrias Plasticas          Various Manufacturing               modernization       124        0            132       normal
2B-06       Fundiciones Norte SA          Metal Industries (basic)            modernization        26        0            315      arrears
2B-08       Coafi SA                      Textiles                            modernization         0        0            485       normal
2B-09       Clio SA                       Various Manufacturing               modernization         0        0            119       normal
2B-10       Rewetex SA                    Textiles                            modernization         0        0            187       normal
2B-100      Bandex SA                     Chemical Substances and Products  expansion              46        0            785       normal
2B-101      J.Y.C. Romano Hnos SA         Shoes and Clothing                  modernization         0        0            243       normal
2B-102      Suc FCO Sanguinetti           Shoes and Clothing                  modernization         0        0            105       normal
2B-103      Surarco SA                    Textiles                            modernization         0        0            298 fully repaid
2B-105      Textil Villa Maipu            Tertlles                            modernization         0        0            174      arrears
2B-106      Cayro Otavares                Various Manufacturing               modernization        28        0             87       normal
2B-107      Textile San Remo SA           Textiles                            expansion             0        0            255       normal
2B-109      Longvie SA                    Metal Products (except Machincery)modernization           0        0            224       normal
2B-11       Interprint SA                 Printing                            modernization         0        0            115       normal
2B-110      Artes Graf Guaita             Printing                            modernization         0        0            385       normal
2B-113      Bolsapel SA                   Paper & Paper Products              modernization         0        0            263       normal
2B-114      Descartables Arg SA           Paper & Paper Products              new                  37       18            955       normal
2B-115      Guipure La Rioja SA y Gui    Textiles                             new                   0        0            179      arrears
2B-116      Esteban Fabra Fons            Shoes and Clothing                  expansion             0        0             97       normal
2B-117      Bodega Navarro Correas SA    Beverages                            modernization         0        0             61       normal
2B-119      Mariano Mas                   Printing                            modernization         0        0             63       normal
2B-12       Sancor Cooperativas           Foodstuffs                          modernization        24        0          1,386       normal
2B-120      Papelera Mitre                Paper & Paper Products              modernization         0        0            288       normal
2B-121      Roneu SA                      Textiles                            new                   0        0            361       normal
2B-122      Pasadena SA                   Various Manufacturing               modernization        17        0          1,600      arrears
2B-124      Supercemento SA               Construction                        modernization        26        0          1,016      arrears
2B-125      Fara SCA                      Mineral Products (non-metalic)    modernization           0        0            301      arrears



P,>, 2 ,f 3
Subproject        Company                              Sector                    Investment      FRR (t)   ERR (7)           IBRD     Status
No.                                                                             Purposes                              Financing
(USSOOO)
2B-126      Reinforced Plastic             Various Manufacturing                modernization         0         0            495      arrears
2B-129      Grafexsa                       Chemical Substances and Products  modernization            0         0            472      arrears
2B-13       Veresit SA                     Chemical Substances and Products  modernization            0         0             57       normal
2B-132      Fotocromos Columbia            Printing                             modernization         0         0            165       normal.
2B-133      Sicom                          Electric Machinery                   modernization         0         0            1I6       normal
2B-134      Talleres Graficos Morales    Printing                               modernization         0         0            51        normal
2B-135      Indema SA                      Metal Industries (basic)             new                   0         0            37/       normal
2B-137      Clamet SA                      Metal Industries (basic)             new                   0         0            441       normal
2B-139      FCA ARC Bozalitos              Metal Products (except machinery) modernization            0         0            1.'       n,rna'
2B-14       Casa Piro SA                   Various Manufacturing                new                  50         0              7       no rmal
2B-140      Bersa SA                       Metal Products (except machinery) modernization            0         0            10!       normal
2B-141      Ricardo Mario Bravo            Foodstuffs                           modernization         0         0             90      arrears
2B-142      Plastirama San Luis            Chemical Substances and Products  new                     47         0            159       norm;l
2B-144      Felix a Medoro Saymedoros    Paper & Paper Products                 new                  80        94            692       normal
2B-145      Talleres Graficos Mundial    Printing                               modernization        26         0              9       normal
2B-146      Agapol SA                      Textiles                             modernization        29         0          1,200       normal
2B-147      J. Cartellone Const C.         Construction                         modernization        20         0            613      arrears
2B-148      Nortextil SA                   Textiles                             modernization        50         0            353       normal
2B-149      Top Toys Juguetes S            Various Manufacturing                new                  75         0          1,097       normal
2B-150      San Sebastian SA               Foodstuffs                           modernization         0         0            133      arrears
2B-151      Ital Papelera San Luis         Paper & Paper Products               new                  13        28            717       normal
2B-153      Kiwisa y Elviro Cuadrado       Textiles                             new                   0         0            522      arrears
2B-156      Brahms SA                      Textiles                             modernization        25        29          1,215       normal
2B-157      Nicieza y Taverna              Machitner' (except Electric)         modernization         0         0            201       normal
2B-16       Industrias H-inca SA           Rubber PI  ducts                     new                  51        28            535       normal
2B-17       Industrias Pampa SA            Rubber Products                      new                  39        21            518       normal
2B-18       BGH SA                         Electric Machinery                   modernization         0         0            330       normal
2B-19       Ind Del Plasticoacozzuol       Various Manufacturing                modernization         0         0            213       normal
2B-20       Papelera San Vicente           Paper & Paper Products               modernization         0         0            365   G.Judicial
2B-22       Vanar SA                       Textiles                             new                  69         0            863      arrears
2B-23       Raselli Saifi                  Metal Products (except Machinery) new                      0         0             60       normal
2B-24       Fluidmec SAIC                  Machinery (except Electric)          modernization         0         0            286      arrears
2B-25       Marviplast SA                  Chemical Substances and Products  modernization            0         0             96   G.judicial
2B-27       Sevel Argentina SA             Transport                            modernization         0         0            364       normal
2B-28       Boldt SA                        Printing                            modernization         0         0            507       normal
2B-29       Las 4 Barras SAIC              Textiles                             expansion             0         0            268      arrears
2B-30       Tejedurias Homero La Rioj    Textiles                               modernization         0         0            209   G.Judicial
2B-31       Fabrisur SA                    Textiles                             modernization         0         0            539       normal
2B-32       Balder SA                      Textiles                             modernization         0         0             49       normal
2B-33       Vito-Glass SAIYC               Mineral Products (non-metallic)   modernization            0         0            105       normal
2B-34       Malelu SA y Telimp             Various Manufacturing                modernization        50         0            262       normal
2B-35       Olega SA CIIA                  Foodstuffs                           new                   7        83            608       normal
2B-36       Propulsora Patagonica          Shoes and Clothing                   modernization         0         0            218       normal
2B-37       Aldo Oscar Martinez             Printing                            modernization         0         0            269      arrears
2B-38       Technograf Sacif                Printing                            modernization        25         0            755       normal
2B-39       Gabor SAIC                     Textiles                             modernization         0         0            263       normal
2B-40       Carolani Fueguina              Textiles                             modernization         0         0            102       normal
2B-41       Suaveandar SA                  Textiles                             expansion             0         0            109       normal
2B-42       Guida SA                       Paper & Paper Products               modernization         0         0             50       normal
2B-43       Surjet SA                      Textiles                             modernization         0         0            104       normal



Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
Subproject        Company                               Sector                    Investment      FRR (2)   ERR (%)            IBRD     Status
No.                                                                              Purposes                               Financing
(USSOOO)
2B-53        Textil Monterrey               Textiles                             modernization         36         0            351      arrears
2B-54        Dos Mu Ecoc Sacif              Shoes and Clothing                   modernization          0         0            127       normal
2B-55        Viscosud SA                    Textiles                             modernization          0        0             386       normal
2B-56        SAIA Pascual                   Beverages                            modernization          0        0             226       normal
2B-57        Corbella y Cia                 Textiles                             modernization         23        14            418       normal
2B-58        Serpina SA                     Textiles                             modernization          0         0            176       normal
2B-59        Textil el Mirador Fu           Textiles                             modernization         16         0            547   G.judicial
2B-60        Celpan SA                      Paper & Paper Products               modernization          0         0            726      arrears
2B-61        Celpak SA                      Paper & Paper Products               modernization          0         0            658      arrears
2B-62        Textil Lules SA                Textiles                             modernization          0         0             66       normal
2B-63        BGH SA                         Electric Machinery                   modernization          0         0            588       normal
2B-64        General Textiles SA            Textiles                             modernization          0         0             84       normal
2B-65        Luis y Raul Zecnin S           Metal Products (except Machinery) modernization             0         0            199       normal
2B-66        Pugliese Hnos SRL              Transport                            modernization          0         0             57       normal
2B-67        Colorama Laboratorio           Public Utilities                     modernization          0         0            139       normal
2B-68        Coteca SA                      Textiles                             modernization          0         0            117       normal
2B-69       Autumn SA                       Textiles                             modernization          0         0            100       normal
2B-70        Crispan SAICA                  Mineral Products (non-metallic)   modernization             0         0             54       normal
2B-72        Ricardo Almar e Hijos          Shoes and Clothing                   expansion             48        18         2,218        normal
2B-74       Multifils SAIC                  Textiles                             modernization          0         0             89       normal
2B-75        Talleres Tandil SCA            Metal Products (except Machinery) modernization            19         9            123       normal         w
2B-76        Lyn SACI                       Shoes and Clothing                   modernization          0         0            242       normal
2B-77        Hisilan SAIC                   Textiles                             modernization          0         0            178       normal
2B-78        Fadete SAICI                   Textiles                             modernization         18        20         2,412        normal
2B-79        E Daneri IPSA                  Metal Products (except Machinery) modernization            91         0          1,313       normal
2B-80        Molinos Marimbo SAIC           Foodstuffs                           modernization          0         0             73       normal
2B-81        Chiarito San Luis SA           Textiles                             modernization         44         0             87       normal
2B-82       Akito Textil SA                 Textiles                             modernization          0         0            221       normal
2B-83        0 Danilo Bolognami             Public Utilities                     modernization          0         0             65       normal
28-84        Chiozzi SA                     Printing                             modernization         20         0            238      arrears
2B-85        Tecnoimpressa                  Printing                             modernization          0         0            171        normal
2B-86        Cilsa Cia Lamera SAF           Textiles                             modernization          0         0            338        normal
2B-87        Veresit SA                     Chemical Substances and Products  modernization             0         0             91        normal
2B-88        Mineragua SA                   Beverages                            new                    0         0            138      arrears
2B-89        Lauda Textil SA                Textiles                             modernization          0         0            132        normal
2B-90        Industrias Plastico y Met    Various Manufacturing                  modernization          0         0            402        normal
2B-91        JC SRL                         Textiles                             modernization          0         0            161        normal
2B-93       Ameyca SA                       Metal Products (except Machinery) new                      28         0            539      arrears
2B-94        Caele SA                       Me_al Products (except Machinery) new                      23         0            439      arrears
2B-95        Rotografica Argentina SA       Printing                             modernization          0         0             77        normal
2B-96        Fototipia Linfoseter           Printing                             modernization          0         0             52       arrears
2B-97        Taboada SRL                    Wood & Cork (except Furniture)    modernization             0         0             74        arears
2B-98        Clave Plast SA                 Various Manufacturing                modernization         23         0          1,568        normal
2B-99        Ind Gummi SA                   Metal Products (except Machinery) modernization             0         0             60        normal
Total      137 Subprojects                                                                                               84,021



- 34 -
ANNEX 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2063-AR)
BANADE - COMPARATIVE BALANCE SHEETS, DECEMBER 31. 1981-JULY 31. 1989 /a
(in USS million)
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
ASSETS
Cash and due from Banks              235.3   219.1   114.1   103.7    61.4    89.8    69.8    58.5    71.8
Government Securities                 52.1    90.1    71.0    45.4    37.1    26.4    12.4    11.8    18.0
Loans                               2965.4  2833.3  2913.8  3026.7  3167.2  2846.8  3140.0  3111.8  2183.7
Other Receivables for
Financial Intermediation            311.3   820.6  1570.3  1507.3  1568.5  1942.7  1557.9  1464.4  1386.4
Equity in other companies             24.2    27.2    32.6    49.9    48.8    25.6    14.5    15.5    26.4
Sundry Receivables                    14.5      4.6      3.5     5.5      7.7      9.8      8.5      -       1.0
Property, Plan and Equipment          13.4    13.3    13.4    19.6    24.9    24.9    23.7    34.6    23.7
Miscellaneous Assets                   0.7      1.2      1.3      1.7     6.5      7.4      6.8      6.4     8.3
Unappropriated items                  55.4    24.7    54.9    44.6    59.0    47.7    47.7    50.2           1.4
Total Assets          3672.7  4034.5  4715.3  4804.7  4981.5  5021.4  4881.8  4753.1  3720.9
LIABILITIES
Deposits                             762.3   337.9   241.8   243.4   174.3   2217.0   261.8   245.2    75.3
Other Obligations
(for financial intermediation)  2628.4  3486.4  4281.6  4336.0  4514.2  4457.5  4300.6  4249.6  3593.8
Sundry Liabilities                    15.0      7.3    13.5      9.4    18.5    16.0    17.7    10.7    15.3
Reserves and Allowances               14.8    10.2       9.6     7.4      8.7    18.1       7.5     6.1       .8
Items Pending Allocation              63.5    37.9    37.6    46.1    51.0    54.2    44.3    48.7           1.0
Total Liabilities   3484.2  3879.9  4584.3  4642.4  4766.9  4773.0  4632.1  4560.2  3686.2
Capital Stock                         61.3    15.0    19.3    12.8    28.9    98.4    54.5    74.5   217.1
Non capitalized Contributions
Monetary Adjustments                 23.6    17.9    17.8   123.5   121.8    77.6   135.1   149.0           -
Aggregate Capital Adjustment
Profit Reserve                       63.4    29.2      9.9    11.3    12.9    28.1    45.3          -       -
Retained Earnings                     40.0   101.3    36.5    14.4    50.7    44.0    14.6   (30.6)   50.4
Adjustments of Accrued
Earnings                                                                                                 (232.8)
Total Equity                       188.4   154.5   130.9   162.3   214.5   248.3   249.7   192.9    34.7
Total Liabilities and
Net Worth                         3672.7  4034.5  4715.3  4804.7  4981.5  5021.4  4881.8  4753.1  3720.9
Contingent Liabilities              2325.1  2151.6  1973.2  1877.9  2022.5  2134.3  2148.7   n/a           n/a
Note: Minor discrepancies in decimals due to rounding.
/a Figures for 1988 and 1989 were computed by Price Waterhouse (report submitted
November 17, 1989). Figures for 1988 are computed as of June 30, 1988 and figures
for 1989 are as of July 31, 1989.



- 35 -
ANNEX  5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2063-AR)
BANADE - INCOME STATEMENTS: 1981-1989 /a
1981     1982      1983      1984      1985      1986       1987      1988        1989
Financial Revenues              722.2    637.6    710.2    1603.5   1310.3        757.7    1495.6    1266.0       1917.8
Financial Expenditures          (533.9)  (494.7)  (462.7)  (1020.7)  (877.7)   (464.0)   (998.4)   (896.8)   (1523.3)
Charge for Bad Debts            0183.9)   (95.6)  (200.9)   t387.4,  (237.4)   (166.6)   (327.8)   (299.5)    (402.0)
SubtotaL                        4.4      47.2     46.5      195.3    195.2      127.0      169.2      69.7        (7.5)
Revenues from Service             15.4     13.9      20.2      35.0      32.0       19.1      22.5        7.9       11.6
Expenditures from Services        (1.8)    (0.9)    (1.7)      (2.7)    (3.8)      (1.2)      (2.6)       --        (1.0)
Monetary Result From
Financial Intermediation         --                --      (201.9)  (145.0)    (75.5)   (134.6)   (156.7)          --
Administration Expenses          (39.8)   (17.2)   (23.3)    (40.4)   (38.4)    (49.4)    (53.6)         (7.5)     (22.8)
Other Income                      62.2     68.1       2.5      24.0      33.0      95.0      118.3       17.4      110.3
Other Losses/Expenses            (15.0)   (17.2)    (9.6)    (14.7)   (32.2)    (59.5)    (70.7)    (18.4)    (193.6)
Monetary Result for
Other Operations                 -        --                 15.2       8.2     (12.0)    (34.3)        --      (124.2)
Net Result for Period            25.4     93.8     34.5        9.8      49.0      43.3       14.0      (87.7)    (232.4)
Note: Discrepancies in decimals due to rounding.
/a  Figures for 1988 and 1989 were computed by Price Waterhouse (report submitted November 17,
1989). Figures for 1988 are as of June 30, 1988 and figures for 1989 are as of July 31, 1989.



- 36 -
ANNEX 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2063-AR)
BANADE - FINANCIAL RATIOS
Original Loan Agreement                  1985 Loan Amendment /a
1981    1982    1983    1984          1985    1986    1987    1988/b
1.   Debt/Equity Ratio
(Including Contingencies)
Consolidated long-term unsecured
Max. Loan Agreement
Requirement                                      n/a      n/a          10       10       10      8
with BCRA guidelines                                n/a     n/a          n/a      n/a      n/a     20.2
on provisions
without BCRA guidelines                             n/a     n/a          4.6      8.5      9.2     7.9
Consolidated unsecured
Max. Loan Agreement
Requirement                                     n/a      n/a          15       15      15       12
with BCRA guidelines                                n/a     n/a          n/a      n/a      n/a     23.9
on provisions
without BCRA guidelines                             n/a     n/a          8.5      9.9      11      9.4
Consolidated long-term
Max. Loan Agreement
Requirement                                     10       10           28       26      23       20
with BCRA guidelines                                n/a     n/a          n/a      n/a      n/a     45.1
on provisions
without BCRA guidelines            12.3    18.4    26.3    26.4          18.7    20.6    21.5    17.7
2.   Operating Costs as
% of Total Assets                1.1      0.4     0.5      0.8          0.8      1.0     1.1      0.5
3.   Arrears as 2 of
Total Portfolio                            n/a     n/a      12.3         21.1    15.9    19.9    21.0
4.   Largest 50 loans/Total
Loans                                      n/a     n/a      80.6         80.6    72.1    71.4    75.3
/a  The amendment agreement of November 27, 1985 (Section 4.05, paras. a. ar.d b.) delineated 3
types of debt categories and assigned ratios respectively.
/b  Maximum agreed under the Small and Medium Industries Project (Loan 2793-AR), which
superceded the maximum agreed under this loan.
Source: BANADE, Contaduria, 1988.
SIGEP, Report of November 24, 1989



- 37 -
ANNEX 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2063-AR)
BANADE - PERSONNEL EMPLOYED 1978-1989
Year                     Number
12/31/78                     4,033
12/31/79                     3,972
12/31/80                     3,841
12/31/81                     3,761
12/31/82                     3,666
12/31/83                     3,686
12/31/84                     3,647
12/31/85                     3,539
12/31/86                     3,422
12/31/87                     3,274
08/31/88                     3,175
09/29/88                     2,979
10/26/89                     2,977



