Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY              i
Report No. P-3146-AR
REPORT AND RECOIMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
November 10, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
June 30, 1981
Currency Unit           =         Argentine Peso ($a)
US$1                              $a 4,963 (financial rate)
US$1 million            =         $a 4,963 million
$a 1 million            =         US$ 200
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANADE   -    Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (National Development Bank)
INTI     -    Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Industrial
(National Institute of Industrial Technology)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE).
Guarantor:             The Argentine Republic.
Amount:                US$100.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at 11.6% per
annum. The amortization schedule will conform to
the aggregate of the following two amortization
schedules: (a) for the US$99.5 million for industrial
subprojects, the aggregate amortization schedule of the
subloans fixed at the time when funds have been fully
committed; and (b) for the US$0.5 million for technical
assistance, standard Bank amortization schedule.
Relending Terms:       Subloans by BANADE to subborrowers (excluding provincial
banks) will have maturities of up to 15 years and up to
3 years of grace with Bank loan interest rate plus a
minimum of 5% per annum for dollar-denominated subloans
and a minimum of 2.5% per annum for subloans in pooled
currencies. Subsidiary loans by BANADE to provincial
banks will bear an interest rate no lower than that of
the Bank loan plus a minimum of 2.5% for dollar-
denominated subloans. Provincial banks will onlend at
an interest rate at least equal to that charged BANADE's
subborrowers.
Project Description:  The project will assist BANADE to finance modernization
and replacement of equipment, as well as new and expanded
production by industrial and mining firms. A special
feature of this loan will be the establishment of a line
of credit for an industrial energy conservation program.
Development credits under this project will also be
channelled through the provincial banks to help stimulate
regional development and mobilize the provincial bank
resources for industrial development. Technical assis-
tance will be provided to help BANADE's institutional
development and the National Institute of Industrial
Technology's development of an industrial energy con-
servation program. The project's major risks are
(i) changes in exchange rate and interest rate policies
that would make the line of credit unattractive and
(ii) a return to protectionist policies that would
stifle the process towards increased industrial
efficiency.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i~i -
Bank FY           82         83         84         85
Estimated
Disbursements:       Annual             15         20         25         40
Cumulative        15         35         60        100
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 3538-AR



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC FOR A SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE) with the guarantee of Argentine
Republic for the equivalent of US$100 million to help finance a Second
Industrial Credit Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum. The amortization schedule
will conform to the aggregate of the following two amortization schedules:
(a) for the US$99.5 million for financing industrial subprojects, the aggregate
amortization schedule of the subloans fixed at the time when funds have been
fully committed; and (b) for the US$0.5 million for technical assistance,
standard Bank amortization schedule.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.        The most recent Economic Memorandum (No. 2988-AR) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in August 1980. An economic mission visited
Argentina in November 1980; its findings have been incorporated in this
report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I. A special report on
the impact of the Government's stabilization and reform policies on the
private sector will be distributed in the near future.
Background
3.        Argentina is a semi-industrialized country with a per capita income
in 1979 of US$2,280, a sizeable middle class and a relatively even distribution
of income. Postwar GDP growth has averaged 3.5% in an economy which has
been subject to strong cyclical fluctuations. Sharp swings from expansionary
fiscal, monetary and wage policies to restrictive stabilization programs have
occurred five times since 1950. During the early 1970s, when Argentina's
external situation was favorable, the Government pursued an ambitious public
investment program. Large increases in public expenditures, nominal wages
and credit resulted in strong growth of domestic output, while maintenance of
fixed exchange rates led to rapidly increasing imports. In mid-1974, poor
weather, falling world grain prices, and an EEC ban on beef imports halted
export growth. Deterioration of the foreign sector coincided with an intensi-
fication of domestic social and political conflict. Acceleration of the
wage-price spiral propelled inflation to over 300% in 1975 and an annual rate
of about 800% in early 1976. A rapidly increasing foreign debt and a drastic
fall in foreign exchange reserves threatened a serious foreign exchange crisis.
1/   This section is virtually the same as that in the President's Report
for the Oil and Gas Credit Project (P-3092-AR) dated June 17, 1981,
except paragraphs 15-22 which were updated to take into account recent
developments.



- 2-
Stabilization Efforts 1976-1978
4.        The administration, which took office in March 1976, had, as its
initial objectives, strengthening the balance of payments, restructuring
the external debt and preventing hyper-inflation. The balance of payments
improved as soon as export taxes were reduced and capital flows were freed.
Monetary and fiscal policies, supported by wage controls, succeeded in bringing
down the rate of inflation from 780% during the year ending in April 1976 to
150% a year later. No further progress was made, however, in reducing infla-
tion during the remainder of 1977 and 1978. At the same time output fluctuated
greatly. After recovering rapidly from the 1975-1976 recession, growth came
to a halt in late 1977 when credit restrictions and record high interest rates
resulted in a drop in investment.
5.        External sector policies introduced in 1976 immediately produced
favorable export results while imports were held down by two recessions. As
a consequence, the resource balances registered surpluses of US$1.9 billion
and US$2.8 billion in 1977 and 1978 respectively. Current account surpluses
were accompanied by large capital inflows. At the beginning, the public
sector was the primary borrower, but starting in 1977 high domestic interest
rates induced the private sector to borrow abroad on an increasing scale.
Although the authorities introduced some controls in 1978, long-term capital
continued to flow into Argentina, and by the end of that year gross foreign
exchange reserves stood at US$5.8 billion, equivalent to 14 months of imports.
Net reserves amounted to US$5.0 billion. This reserve growth permitted a new
approach to inflation control in the framework of an open economy.
The 1979/1980 Program
6.        In late December 1978 the Government announced a stabilization
program with predetermined schedules for adjustment of (i) exchange rates,
(ii) prices of fuels and public sector services, (iii) wages, and (iv) the
monetary base of internal origin, combined with a five-year import tariff
reduction schedule and the formal reopening of the capital market to inter-
national transactions. Most of the adjustments were to follow a declining
trend, designed to dampen inflationary expectations and to limit price
increases of domestic producers. Foreign competition was to reduce the rate
of price increases of domestic tradeable goods to the level determined by:
(a) the rate of price increases abroad, and (b) the rate of depreciation of
the peso. It was recognized, however, that possible tariff redundancy and
lags in the adjustment of imports would delay this l"convergence" of domestic
and foreign inflation rates.
7.        Shortly after the announcement of the 1979-84 tariff liberalization
schedule, the Government started a supplementary program of temporary tariff
reductions for goods whose domestic price increases substantially exceeded
increases in international prices and the rate of devaluation. In addition,
tariffs for all capital goods were eliminated temporarily in order to facil-
itate the re-equipment and modernization of Argentine industry.



- 3 -
8.         One notable feature of the stabilization strategy was the secondary
role of monetary policy. The pre-fixing of the peso/dollar rate, along with
the elimination of capital controls, allowed the monetary authorities to
influence only the monetary resources originating from domestic sources.
By setting quarterly targets for this variable, the monetary authorities
wanted to limit internal public sector borrowing and ensure an adequate supply
of credit to borrowers who had no access to foreign credit sources. Fiscal
policy was also viewed to be of secondary importance insofar as short-term
stabilization objectives are concerned. To mitigate inflationary expectations,
however, and to reach the long-run goal of decreased state intervention, the
authorities were able to decrease the central government's deficit from
2.1% of GDP in 1978 to 1.5% in 1979.  The overall public sector deficit was
reduced significantly from its 1978 level of 5.0% of GDP to 3.5% in 1979.
Results of the Program
9.         Most of the policies outlined above were implemented during the
course of 1979. The key variable, the exchange rate, was moved according to
plan, the tariff reform was applied, public sector prices and tariffs were
adjusted as envisaged, and monetary resources of internal origin expanded only
slightly more than projected. However, total money supply expanded rapidly,
because the elimination of capital controls and the maintenance of the schedule
for exchange rate devaluation, despite high internal inflation, led to heavy
capital inflows amounting to over US$1.5 billion in the first nine months.
With a tight labor market prevailing throughout 1979, nominal wages increased
more rapidly than scheduled. The Government eliminated the legal limitations
on wage increases in September.
10.        After some adjustment lag, during which the peso appreciated sig-
nificantly in real terms, inflation substantially decelerated. The general
wholesale price index, which rose at an average rate of 8.3% per month from
January to August 1979, increased by an average of only 3.5% per month from
September 1979 to December 1980, the lowest monthly rates since early 1974.
The deceleration in inflation led to some real depreciation of the exchange
rate, higher real wages and positive real interest rates during the last
three months of 1979. Initially, domestic price increases were dampened by
decreasing prices of primary products, but the industrial sector's exposure to
international competition became the primary factor in late 1979 and 1980. As
expected, the branches most exposed to foreign competition were those which
showed price deceleration most clearly.
11.        In accordance with the preannounced schedule, the peso was devalued
by 2.8% in January 1980, with a 0.2% decrease in the rate of adjustment in each
of the following months, amounting to 25% for the whole year.  Effects of the
past appreciation of the peso in real terms and tariff reductions led to a
continuous deceleration in inflation as reflected in the wholesale price index.
With prices of traded goods decelerating, it was expected that internal market
adjustments would result in a slowing down of prices of non-tradeables as well.
However, this did not happen; domestic terms of trade deteriorated for traded
goods, in general, and export products in particular.



- 4 -
12.       The Government's policies had a major impact on the private sector.
In order to survive, firms had to adopt measures that in the longer term would
augur well for increased growth and productivity. In the short term, however,
many firms have faced a severe profit squeeze and cash-flow problem. The
traditional agricultural sector in the Pampas appears to have responded to the
general decline in producer prices positively by intensifying production with
emphasis on cereal crops and oilseed cultivation; as a consequence yields and
exports have increased. Producers outside the Pampa (fruits, wool and cotton),
however, found it more difficult to compete. In industry, success or failure
at the enterprise level has been importantly influenced by the previous degree
of protection and the quality of financial management. Firms cut costs by
providing fewer products, and many sold subsidiaries to generate badly needed
cash for improving new machinery and equipment to modernize production. Some
firms were unable to cut costs in line with decreasing revenues, however,
because of escalating financial costs and rising real wages despite a substan-
tial decline of employment in the sector.
13.       During the second semester of 1980 several new measures were adopted,
the most important of which affected incentives for imports and exports. In
addition to an acceleration of the rate of devaluation, a change in the tax
structure lowered payroll taxes and increased the rate of the value added
tax. Industrial firms are now reimbursed the additional value added taxes
when exporting, whereas before they did not receive reimbursement for labor
taxes. That tax change was equivalent to a de facto devaluation for exports
equivalent to between 5 and 15%, depending on the relative labor costs of each
enterprise. As regards industrial imports, the substitution of domestic
payroll taxes by value added taxes, which are paid by importers as well as by
domestic producers, amounted to a devaluation equivalent to the increase in
the value added tax.
14.       Nonetheless, with imports booming and exports slowing down, the
current account surpluses of 1976-78 turned into a deficit of about US$4.7
billion by 1980. Growing expectations that the peso would be devalued, and
uncertainties attached to the imminent change of Government, triggered heavy
capital outflows. A 10% devaluation in early February 1981 was insufficient
to calm foreign exchange markets. Capital outflows accelerated, and annualized
rates of interest for short-term peso borrowing reached 56.4% in real terms
during the first quarter of 1981.
Recent Measures of the New Administration
15.       The conditions facing the Argentine economy when the new Government
took office on April 1, 1981, were extremely difficult. The 10% devaluation
had failed to stem the expectations for further devaluations. Very high
real interest rates had led to some private business moratoria and closing-
downs. The external debt of the country had reached more than US$30 billion -
half of it to be repaid in 1981. Besides, external conditions facing the
country were not bright: world recession was expected to go deeper, inter-
national prices of main exportable grains were falling and the beef cycle was
in its downward phase. The new Government's economic program is aiming at
reducing the balance of payments deficit and easing the financial problems of
the debt-ridden private sector, without radically shifting from the longer-term
economic liberalization program. Three policy "packages" have been introduced
since April 1981.



16.       The first "package", introduced on April 2, devalued the Argentine
peso by 30% and set the monthly rate of future devaluations at 4%. To dampen
the inflationary effect of the devaluation and to reduce the windfall gains
accruing to exporters, transitional export taxes (12% ad valorem) were intro-
duced on agricultural exports, and export reimbursements for manufactured
products were limited to a maximum of 25%. The Argentine Government also
declared its continued commitment to the long-term program of trade liberal-
ization and included in the package the elimination of a number of special
export incentives and the lowering of import tariff ceiling to 43% - the
latter being in accordance with the 1979-84 tariff liberalization schedule.
Following the devaluation, the reserve position of the Central Bank improved
and the rates of interest - which had peaked during the predevaluation rush on
dollars - began to decline.
17.       In its second "package", introduced on April 24, the Government
instituted a scheme for refinancing the debts of agricultural and industrial
firms which had been squeezed between the rising cost of loans and the competi-
tion by imports. Cautious not to expand the monetary base unduly, the new
credit injection, to be accomplished through Central Bank rediscount operations,
was set at the equivalent of US$4 billion and offered in three installments. At
the same time, commercial banks reserve requirements were raised from 12 to
14%. While the scheme reduced the probability of massive defaults, it fell
short of consolidating the precarious financial situation of the industrial
sector at large because of the relatively small size of the total credit made
available (private sector debt was approaching US$30 billion) and the delays
involved in the loan allocation procedure. Also, continuing speculation against
the peso renewed upward pressures on short-term interest rates.
18.       The third "package", introduced on May 8, consisted of measures to
limit the public sector deficit, which was running considerably above the
level projected for the first quarter of 1981. Among the measures were a
review of the investment program to reduce outlays, the offer of public
companies for sale to the private sector and a 5 percentage point increase in
import tariffs to increase fiscal revenues. Wages and other current expendi-
ture adjustments of the public sector were lagged behind inflation, which
accelerated to an average of 13% per month during the second quarter, compared
to a 4.2% monthly average during the first quarter.
19.       Pressure on the peso intensified, leading to another devaluation and
to the creation of a separate floating rate for "financial transactions" in
June. Efforts to restore public confidence in economic management were comple-
mented by the announcement (August 20) of the Government's short- and medium-
term objectives and related measures. Included were an expansion of the
industrial refinancing operation announced in the second "package" and meas-
ures to strengthen taxation and curtail public sector spending. These measures
helped to stabilize the capital markets. The refinancing program was expanded
to ease the cash flow broblems of industrial firms. Together with the mainte-
nance of a realistic exchange rate, this should permit the renewed expansion
of industrial output and exports. The Government's program is attempting to
reduce inflationary pressures without returning to the inefficient protective
measures and subsidies of the past. Crucial to this undertaking will be the
Government's success in reducing the public sector deficit, through selective



-6-
review and curtailment of the investment program and the introduction of
strict controls over current expenditure, as well as strengthening of tax
collection and continued adjustments in public sector tariffs and prices.
Medium- and Long-Term Development Prospects
20.       During 1981 and 1982, business failures of weak or overexpanded
firms and unemployment are likely to increase. Availability of long-term
credit for reequipment and modernization will be a crucial requirement for
supporting the restructuring of industry. Since the private sector is also
expected to take on a number of tasks previously undertaken by the public
sector, considerable flexibility and efficiency will be required of the
Argentine financial system. While agricultural production decreased in 1980
because of unfavorable weather conditions, growth in agricultural output has
been strong in 1981 and should continue on the expansion path started in the
early 1970's. The trade surplus this year is expected to be over US$4 billion.
Agricultural investments and exports should rise given the improved incentives
and credit conditions and favorable prices of Argentine products in interna-
tional markets. For 1982 and 1983, Argentina aims to achieve trade surpluses
of US$3.0 and US$2.5 billion respectively.
21.       The current account balance turned negative in 1979, and, despite
projected trade surpluses, is likely to remain in deficit for a few years.
Substantial capital flows from world markets, bilateral arrangements, export
credits, and direct private sources are necessary to maintain investment
levels. Official multilateral sources may play an important role by providing
financial support combined with technical and organizational assistance and by
stimulating capital flows from other sources. Argentina's medium- and long-
term external public debt amounted to US$9.1 billion at the end of 1980 and
private external debt, US$4.4 billion. The external debt service ratio was
26% in 1979, and is estimated to have been 30% in 1980. Since the Central
Bank earned interest on its large foreign exchange reserves, the total net
debt service ratio was reduced to about 24% in 1980. The Bank's share of
the external public debt was 5% and its share in debt service was 3%. On
balance,these shares are not expected to increase significantly in the next
five years.
22.       It is too soon to quantify the effects of the present measures.
The ongoing liberalization process has enhanced the competitiveness of the
economy. Argentina has rich natural and human resources, and is self-
sufficient in energy. For these reasons and assuming prudent economic
policies, Argentina remains creditworthy for long-term borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
Bank Operations
23.       After a hiatus of five years, lending to Argentina was resumed in
September 1976. Total lending to date, net of cancellations, amounts to
US$1,606.7 million. To assist Argentina through the initial stabilization
effort following the crisis in 1976, Bank lending has focused on major infra-
structure projects and the provision of credit and training to productive sectors.



- 7 -
A grain storage project was designed to enable Argentina to export agricultural
products in a more orderly manner; an industrial credit project helped support
moderni-zation and expansion of export oriented industries, and the projects for
power, highways and railways provided part of the infrastructure necessary to
facilitate agricultural and industrial expansion. Recently, the Bank began lend-
ing to Argentina's hydrocarbon sector through a series of loans. The oil and gas
engineering loan was the first step in helping Argentina improve its knowledge
of hydrocarbon reserves through expanded audits of reserves and seismic surveys;
the coal exploration loan will improve the basis for a rational exploitation
of Argentina's coal resources. The oil and gas credit loan will promote private
sector participation in the exploration and development of the hydrocarbon
sector; and the refinery conversion loan will improve the product mix of
Argentina's refined petroleum products to meet local demand.
24.       Disbursements of Bank loans have been slower than expected.  Per-
sistent high rates of inflation, the need for fiscal austerity and inertia
of the private sector did not provide a conducive environment for progress
of Bank financed projects. During the last twelve months, however, the pace
of disbursements has picked up considerably. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
25.       Future projects would support Government efforts to modernize the
economy through: (i) upgrading public sector enterprises and rationalizing
sector policies; (ii) restructuring the industrial sector to increase *efficiency
and improve export performance; and (iii) helping the Government in its efforts
to transfer responsibilities to provincial authorities and promote private
sector participation. Within the framework for proposed assistance, the oil
and gas sector offers ample possibilities for continued Bank participation.
Argentina's sizeable hydropower potential, shared with riparian neighbors,
represents another attractive field for Bank assistance.  In the transport
sector, the Bank is helping with the preparation of a highway sector project
and plans to continue supporting other modes of transport.
26.       To help modernize the industrial sector, the Government has reduced
import duties to encourage adoption of measures to increase local efficiency.
Under the proposed loan the Bank would assist the Government in strengthening
financial and human resources for industrial development. In addition, the
present administration has taken long strides toward opening up areas for
private sector or joint ventures which traditionally have been the exclusive
domain of the public sector. New mining legislation has cleared the way for
the development of Argentina's substantial mineral reserves by the private
sector. Possible Bank participation could help rationalize sector policies,
attract foreign investors and promote domestic private sector participation.
27.       The Government has embarked on a major revision of the revenue
sharing system and the distribution of Government responsibilities/expenditures
to reduce bureaucracy, synchronize the supply of services more closely with
demand and provide services more effectively at lower cost. In support of
these policies, a proposed project in the water supply and sewerage sector
would help develop provincial institutions, consolidate sector finances and
effectively expand service coverage. Bank participation in pollution control,
regional water development and flood control are additional possibilities that
are under study.



-8-
IFC Operations
28.    As of September 30, 1981, IFC had made 14 loans to borrowers in Argentina
totalling US$174.4 million and two equity investments of US$2.5 million, of
which US$101.5 million have been repaid, cancelled or sold. A summary of
IFC's investments, is shown in Annex II.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL, FINANCIAL AND MINING SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
29.       Argentina was one of the first Latin American countries to develop
a sizeable industrial sector. The growth of industry was fostered by an
expanding domestic market and by natural protection resulting from its distant
location from major world centers of industrial production. By the turn of
the century, industry's share of GDP was already about 15%, and about 20% of
the nation's labor force was employed in a large number of relatively small
plants. From this base, industrial growth surged ahead during World War I,
the depression of the 1930's and again during World War II, propelled each
time by the substitution of locally manufactured goods for imported products.
After World War II, the Government promoted the industrial sector through a
combination of foreign exchange and import controls, high tariffs and special
tax incentives. Annual growth in manufacturing value added, which had averaged
4.1% in the 1950's, rose to 5.6% in the 1960's and accelerated to 7.2% between
1970-74, before it fell to -0.1% in 1975-79. These average industrial growth
rates, however, conceal wide fluctuations in the annual rates of expansion
which were experienced because of foreign exchange shortages and intermittent
Government price stabilization efforts. The share of manufacturing in total
value added rose from 25% in 1950 to 29% in 1970 but has fallen again to
25%. The decline in industrial output growth and its share in total GDP
in the second half of the 70's resulted partly from the stabilization and
structural adjustment measures introduced by the new Government in 1976.
30.       In the fifteen years following World War II, the Government's indus-
trialization policy focused on an import substitution strategy utilizing
multiple exchange rates, import tariffs and restrictions, as well as numerous
fiscal and credit incentives for investments in less developed regions.
These measures encouraged a shift from the traditional industries to the
modern subsectors, mainly chemicals, rubber, metals, machinery and equipment.
In spite of a fairly rapid growth rate and continuous diversification, the
manufacturing sector was confronted with the following problems: (i) a
substantial degree of instability with rapid swings from strong expansion to
sharp contraction; (ii) a high-cost structure as reflected in relatively high
prices and underutilization of capital; (iii) heavy import dependence espe-
cially of the dynamic branches of the industrial sector; and (iv) a low
labor absorption rate. The low efficiency levels in various industrial
subsectors stemmed principally from the high and uneven protection of import-
substitution industries, lack of control and inefficient management in many
state enterprises supplying basic inputs to industry, and mismanagement of
public finances, which frequently deprived the private sector of necessary
funds.



- 9 -
31.       Industrial Exports.  Because of the industrial sector's heavy
dependence on intermediate goods imports, the sector growth became sensitive
to shortages of foreign exchange. Policymakers realized that higher and more
stable growth rates could only be achieved through export diversification. In
an effort to stimulate exports, the Government introduced several fiscal and
monetary incentives in 1962 but these measures had little influence in the
first years because of erratic exchange rate policies. Significant strides
were made only in the late 1960's when these incentives were supplemented by
global reimbursements of income taxes, an export insurance scheme and more
realistic exchange rate adjustments. With these efforts, Argentina's role
as an exporter of processed agricultural goods was extended to machinery,
vehicles and metal products. These products accounted for over half of total
Argentine exports by 1976. Manufacturing's share of total exports advanced
from 8% in 1966 to 26% in 1978 but declined to 20% in 1980, resulting partly
from the appreciation of the real exchange rate and the structural adjustment
taking place in the overall economy. Export declines were significant in
automobiles and in such traditional and relatively labor intensive activities
as textile and leather products. This shortfall was partially offset by
increases in the foreign sales of resource-based products such as petroleum
derivatives and metals, particularly aluminum, iron and steel.
32.       Industrial Employment.  The manufacturing sector has offered limited
new opportunities for employment during the last thirty years because: (i)
new industries and technologies introduced were relatively capital intensive;
(ii) successive governments artificially reduced the relative cost of capital
by subsidizing interest rates and overvaluing the foreign exchange rate for
capital goods; and (iii) labor legislation with its inflexible rules and
substantial fringe benefits discouraged labor intensive production. Total
employment in the manufacturing sector expanded on the average by only
about 1% per year between 1950 and 1970. Manufacturing employment as a
percentage of total employment actually declined from 28% in 1950 to 25% in
1970. It was only in the early 1970s that labor absorption by industry began
to grow significantly (averaging about 3% p.a. between 1970-75), and this
increase was almost entirely the result of a rapid expansion of output and
employment by state-owned enterprises. During the 1976-80 period, employment
declined sharply in the manufacturing sector, leading to increasing self-
employment in the service sector. It is estimated that employment in manu-
facturing fell by about 20% between 1975 and 1980, and that by the end of
the latter year, employment in manufacturing was only 20% of total employment.
33.       The 1976-80 Industrialization Program.  As discussed in Part I of
this report, the Government which assumed power in 1976 aimed to achieve
more stable growth and increased productivity through price stabilization
and trade liberalization. Steps were taken to unify the exchange rate, and
imports of most items covered by the 1972 and 1975 prohibited lists were freed
in July 1976. In November 1976, tariff rates for 4,000 of 7,600 positions in
the tariff schedule were reduced by an average of 25%. Interest rates were
allowed to rise to positive real levels and quantitative restrictions on
imports and advance import deposits were abandoned in 1977. By the end of
1977, import tariffs for manufactured goods were brought down from an average
of 94% to 53%.



- 10 -
34.       The Government adopted in 1979 a more radical strategy designed
to open up the economy to foreign competition by combining tariff reductions
together with a preannounced exchange rate policy utilizing decreasing rates
of devaluation. Preannounced limits on rates charged by public utilities,
wages, and net domestic credit, were introduced to lower inflationary expecta-
tions and to restrain Argentine businesses from increasing prices. Import
tariffs on industrial products were further curtailed to an average of about
30%, although effective protection still averaged close to about 70% in early
1980 after all non-tariff import fees as well as freight and insurance charges
were included. The opening up of the economy is suggested by the rise of the
import/GDP ratio from 7% in the early 1970's to 8% in 1977/78, 10% in 1979
and 12.3% in 1980. Increasing import competition for industry is indicated by
the expanding share of imports in the total supply of manufactured products.
Government liberalization policies have resulted in the expansion of import
shares in the intermediate and capital goods industries, and a rapidly increas-
ing import penetration in the consumer goods sector. The overall import-output
ratio in industry rose from less than 12% in 1971 to close to 24% in 1979.
35.       The impact of the above developments on manufacturing firms varied
widely. Producers of export goods or those subject to import competition
suffered while producers of services, nontradable goods and tradable goods
still enjoying significant degrees of protection posted continuous profit-
ability. External competition forced a number of firms to specialize in
high quality products and to integrate vertically. Many producers of capital
goods either closed down or shifted production to supply large Government
projects and the still highly protected automobile industry. Many firms cut
production drastically, maintained their most important skilled workers, but
operated at a loss, eating into their equity and the assets of their creditors.
Despite these short-term difficulties arising from the restructuring process,
it is expected that consolidation of smaller firms and specialization on
production in which Argentina has greater comparative advantage will result in
a more efficient and productive industrial structure. The concepts of more
effectively controlling production costs, operating efficiently, and meeting
the challenge of external competition have begun to play a more important part
in the industrial thinking in Argentina.
36.       The Government's New Program.  The recent measures of the Government,
which assumed office in April 1981, and the possible implications of these
measures were discussed in Part I of this report. From all indications,
the basic policy principles are similar to the 1976-80 guidelines, and will be
continued. In addition to export measures, the Government has reduced by 12
percentage points all external tariffs of 55% and over. A commission composed
of representatives of the Ministries of the Economy and Finance, Industry and
Mining, Agriculture, Trade and Public Services has been formed to evaluate the
current import tariff and export reimbursement system and make suggestions for
possible changes.
37.       The Government will have to walk a tightrope between stimulation
of production on the one hand and stabilization on the other. After the recent
devaluations inflation is accelerating again and will continue to do so unless
renewed stabilization efforts are undertaken. Resolution of the inflation
problem will bear directly on the welfare of the industrial sector. Industrial
firms have been helped temporarily by the peso devaluation but the financial
restructuring of a large number of enterprises may have to proceed with the
help of the public sector.



- 11 -
38.        The Government has submitted to the Bank a statement affirming its
efforts to promote increased industrial efficiency and exports and to liberalize
foreign trade. To this end, the Government will undertake a comprehensive
industrial sector profile study which will include an analysis of effective
protection of Argentine industries. The specific study on effective protection
will be carried out not later than June 30, 1982. The submission to the Bank
of satisfactory terms of reference and assignment of qualified personnel to
undertake the study on effective protection is a condition of loan effective-
ness (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement). The Government will furnish the
Bank the results of the effective protection study and exchange views with the
Bank on its future course of action with regard to industrial sector policies
(Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement).
The Financial Sector
39.       Argentina's relatively well developed financial system consists of
the Central Bank, four national banks viz., Banco de la Nacion (BN), Banco
Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE), Banco Nacional Hipotecario (BNH), and Caja
de Ahorro y Seguro (CAS), 31 provincial and municipal banks, 177 commercial
banks, 230 finance companies and 28 mortgage banks. The total number of
financial institutions declined from over 700 entities in the mid-1970's to
470 entities in 1980. As a consequence of the 1977 legislation favoring the
establishment of all purpose commercial banks, the number of commercial banks
nearly doubled while the number of financial companies has been reduced by
50%.
40.        From September 1973 until May 1977 a system of nationalized deposits
was in effect in Argentina. In this centralized system deposits were accepted
for the account of the Central Bank, which paid interest, while financial
entities received a commission fee for their intermediary role. Banks were
responsible for credit and investment management, while the Central Bank
established limits, conditions and guarantees on bank portfolios. Accelerated
inflation that started in 1974, jointly with the interest rate policy pursued
during the period, resulted in negative real interest rates for most financial
assets and led to changes in the system of centralized deposits. The system
of term deposits, even though operating formally within the centralized
system, started to work in a decentralized way, since banks were allowed
automatically to issue credit in relation to the amount of their deposits.
The system resulting from these changes was a hybrid, composed, on the one
side, by a centralized system for which a 100% reserve requirement was in
effect and, on the other, by a sub-system with a zero percent reserve require-
ment. Since the sub-system with no reserve requirements was the one that
experienced the fastest growth, the actual average reserve requirements for
the system tended to decline overtime. As a consequence, the Central Bank
lost progressively its ability to manage the money supply.
41.        The 1976 economic program reintroduced the full intermediation
role of commercial banks and provided the financial system with a legal and
regulatory framework that led to increased competition and efficiency. Under
the new system monetary control was achieved through the application of
minimum reserve requirements and open market operations. Monetary inter-
mediation was reserved to commercial banks, the only entities allowed to
accept current deposits. Interest rates were completely freed and deposits
in national currency in all financial institutions were insured through a



- 12 -
nationwide guarantee system. The deregulation of interest rates has resulted
in positive real interest rates and, thus, Argentine savers have been able to
protect their savings against inflation in the domestic financial market. The
increase in savings has progressively raised the monetization of the Argentine
economy, with the ratio between monetary assets of the private sector to GDP
climbing from 8% in 1976 to 30% in mid 1980. In turn, the volume of credit
available through the financial system has doubled in real terms. At the same
time a shift in the composition of the credit has occurred; the private sector
now accounts for 77% of total credit compared to 69% in 1976.
42.       Since 1979/80, however, the Argentine banking system has increasingly
faced liquidity problems. Many private domestic banks have weak portfolios
because of the weakened financial position of the industrial sector. The
existence of a 100% guarantee system for bank deposits encouraged commercial
banks to attract deposits with high interest rate and then lend the funds to
risky borrowers. When interest rates were raised in 1977/78, industrial firms
were able to absorb higher financial costs by passing them on as higher
prices. Since 1979 however, increased import competition has put a ceiling on
prices of firms selling traded goods resulting in increased occurrence of loan
defaults. At the same time, the volatility of prices and interest rates for
loans made it difficult for the banking system to extend loans beyond the
thirty-day maturity. As a consequence, firms have been financing their long-
term capital investments with short-term funds at very high real interest rates
of the past two years, thus, affecting virtually their entire debt structure.
43.       In order to improve the financial structure of firms in the primary
and secondary sectors, the authorities introduced a policy of Central Bank
rediscounts in April 1981, which commercial banks will be able to use for
long-term lending. Under this policy, financial institutions can use a part
of their deposits for four-year loans with a grace period of two years and
interest payments to be made by the end of each year. While the introduction
of this policy offered an important step towards the alleviation of the
immediate financial problems of many firms, it has lagged in the face of the
conflicting desire to limit monetary expansion. As a consequence, the term
credit needs of industry will not be fully met by the financial system.
Meanwhile, although foreign loan financing as a share of gross private invest-
ment has nearly tripled from 1975/76 to 1977/78, access to foreign borrowing
is restricted to larger firms. The proposed loan to BANADE would thus fill
an important gap in the financing of medium and small firms in the Argentine
industrial sector.
The Mining Sector
44.       Although Argentina shares some of the favorable geological features
of its neighbor Andean-countries the mining sector makes a far smaller contribu-
tion to its economy than it does in those countries. Since 1960 the sector's
participation in GDP has been between 1.5%-1.7%. Most of these contributions
come from the mining of non-metallic minerals. Mining of base metals such as
copper, lead and zinc has been restricted to a relatively limited number of
small operations. The only exception has been the U.S. controlled company
"Minera Aguilar" which operates a 2,200 tons per day mine and concentrator
producing zinc, lead and silver concentrates. The Government has committed
itself to increase the importance of the mining sector by promoting private
sector exploration and development.



- 13 -
45.       Recently, two key decree-laws have been issued to promote the
development of Argentina's mining sector. The mining code was amended to
outline a legal framework for developing large-scale mining through concession
contracts for exploration and exploitation. The new Mining Promotion Law is
intended to promote the development of mining activities through duty exemp-
tions and tax incentives for investments in this field. The Law also regulates
the operation of the Mining Development Fund which provides financial assis-
tance for exploration and mining feasibility studies to medium and small-scale
mining projects.
46.       The size of some of the mining projects currently under preparation
in Argentina will require very large investments, some exceeding US$1 billion
requiring external capital financing. There are, however, several small
projects for development and expansion in the small-scale base mining sector
where about 20 to 30 small/medium enterprises are involved. The financial
requirements for these projects can be adequately covered by local financing
institutions among which BANADE plays the most important role.
The First Industrial Credit Project
47.       The First Industrial Credit Project provided US$100 million to
BANADE to assist in financing the foreign exchange costs of fixed assets for
investment subprojects in the industrial sector and technical assistance for
BANADE. The project became effective in November 1977. The US$99.75 million
of loan funds available for onlending for investment subprojects was committed
by BANADE in May 1981. The remaining funds for technical assistance should be
completely committed in the near future. About 53% of the funds have been
used to replace and modernize equipment of small and medium size enterprises.
The remainder has been used to finance new and expansion projects of larger
enterprises (45%) and mining enterprises (2%). Subloans were lent in dollars
at 11% interest rate, initially, and at 12% beginning November 1980 with the
Government bearing the cross-currency risk. It is anticipated that the loan
will be fully disbursed by mid-1982.
48.       The first project's principal goals have been achieved in the
following ways: (i) term credit was provided for efficient industrial devel-
opment; (ii) other external financing was stimulated; cofinancing of US$100
million was secured from a group of banks led by Lloyd's and Bank-assisted
subprojects have also received funds from external sources; (iii) BANADE's
institutional capacity to appraise projects has been enhanced, in part in
response to the Bank criteria used for evaluating project feasibility.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
49.       The Government of Argentina and BANADE have requested a Bank loan
to help finance a Second Industrial Credit Project. A project preparation
mission visited Argentina in November 1980 and the project was appraised in
February/March 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington in August/September



- 14 -
1981. The delegation of the Government of Argentina was headed by Mr. Guillermo
Blanco, Director of Economic Policy, Ministry of Economy; BANADE's delegation
was headed by Dr. Luis Mey, Director, BANADE. A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report - Argentina - Second Industrial Credit Project" (No. 3538-AR)
is being distributed separately. Special conditions of the loan are provided
in Annex III.
50.       The principal objective of the project is to support the government's
goal of making the industrial sector more efficient. Along the lines of the
first Industrial Credit Project, it will continue to assist the modernization
and expansion of industry by providing fixed interest term credits to finance
the foreign exchange component of subprojects. It will also finance subprojects
in the mining sector and will introduce a credit line for industrial energy
conservation. Part of the loan will be channelled through provincial banks to
help stimulate regional development and mobilize provincial bank resources for
industrial development. The project will include technical assistance to help
BANADE in its institutional development. Also, the project provides for the
Government to undertake an industrial sector review (para. 38) and for the
Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Industrial, using its own resources, to
develop an industrial energy conservation program. To assist in financing
this project, complementary external medium-term funds from private financial
institutions would be raised by BANADE through co-financing arrangements
(para. 71).
51.       The loan of US$100 million will be made to BANADE with the guarantee
of the Government of Argentina. The specific loan categories will be as
follows:
Amount
US$ million
(i) BANADE loans to subborrowers and to provincial
banks (i.e., for onlending) for industrial,
and mining subprojects                                      89.5
(ii) BANADE loans for industrial energy conservation
subprojects                                                10.0
(iii)  Technical assistance and training                              0.5
BANADE will relend either directly to the sub-borrowers or through the pro-
vincial banks for mining and industrial subprojects, specifically for re-
equipment or modernization (i.e., those subprojects that will not increase
production more than 30%), as well as new production and expansion. The loan
proceeds will finance the cost of imported equipment and the foreign exchange
component of locally manufactured equipment. A specific loan amount of US$10
million is allocated to the energy conservation program to emphasize the
program's need for special promotion and institutional development efforts.
However, this allocation is indicative; a transfer could be made to the other
loan components if the projected demand for the energy conservation loan is
not realized as expected. Conversely, if the demand turns out to be higher
than projected, a transfer could be made from the other loan categories to
finance energy conservation subprojects.



- 15 -
52.       The loan includes technical assistance for:  (i) design and
implementation of BANADE's Manpower Development Plan and Program; and (ii)
design and installation of BANADE's Management Control and Information Systems.
Loan proceeds will be used to finance consultant services, training and
computer software programs.
53.       The loan is expected to be committed by March 1, 1984 and disbursed
by March 31, 1985. The amortization of the credit portion of the loan will
conform to the aggregate of the amortization schedules of individual sub-
loans, subject to a maximum term of 15 years. The technical assistance
component of the loan will have a term of 15 years, with a 3-year grace
period and a fixed amortization schedule.
The Borrower
54.       BANADE is the successor institution to the Banco Industrial, which
was founded in 1944 to provide term financing for industry. It was created as
an autonomous Government-owned bank in 1970. Its operations virtually came to
a standstill by 1976, principally as a result of lending at highly negative
real interest rates during a period of high inflation. It was recapitalized
and reorganized under a new Charter and Board of Directors in 1976. BANADE's
new management sought to concentrate its financial assistance on private
sector lending and to apply lending interest rate and indexation policies
designed to conserve BANADE's capital base. In addition to its primary devel-
opment banking objectives, BANADE also accepts deposits and provides commercial
banking services. It ranks third in Argentina among all banks in deposits and
fourth in loans outstanding. It has an important role in providing working
capital loans to industry and in foreign trade financing.
55.       Organization and Management.  BANADE's Board of Directors consists
of a president, vice president and ten directors, all appointed by the Govern-
ment for terms of four years. The Board appoints BANADE's General Manager,
Assistant General Managers and Department heads. The Board is also responsible
for establishing strategy and policy within the framework of BANADE's charter
and approving operations. BANADE has its headquarters office in Buenos Aires
and 33 branch offices throughout the country. About one-third of its 3,600
employees are assigned to branch offices.
56.       BANADE's lending operations are conducted through four departments,
viz., Development Credit, Mining, Ordinary Credit and External Finance. These
departments which are headed by assistant general managers are staffed with
skilled personnel and project analysis is conducted by teams of financial
analysts, engineers, accountants and economists. Many of BANADE's technical
personnel have second jobs; a practice that has been common for many years in
the Argentine civil service. Undoubtedly, dual employment adversely affects
productivity. BANADE is concerned about the problem and will address it in
the context of a manpower development program. Assurances were obtained that
BANADE's management will prepare a comprehensive Manpower Development Plan by
June 30, 1982 and will carry out the plan according to a timetable satisfactory
to the Bank (Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement). The Plan will include
systems and programs for personnel evaluation, promotion, incentives, training,
hiring and recruitment, as well as a program for the preparation of managerial
personnel to assume positions of increased responsibility. The Bank and
BANADE also discussed and agreed on a Management Control and Information



- 16 -
System which seeks to improve BANADE's programming and monitoring of opera-
tions, financial planning and allocation of resources. The new system contem-
plates increased and better use of data processing equipment. BANADE agreed
to carry out the the Management Control and Information System according to an
action plan satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank and BANADE will review the
progress on the action plan not later than June 30, 1982 and every six months
thereafter, until the completion of such action plan (Section 3.08 of the Loan
Agrement).
57.       Operations.  BANADE's outstanding loans at year end 1980 were the
equivalent of US$3.6 billion, having grown over 700% in the last five years.
About one-third of BANADE's outstanding loans are denominated in foreign
currency and the balance in local currency. BANADE's loans are principally
made to finance fixed investment. Fixed investment peso loans have accounted
for over 70% of the local currency loans made annually in every year but one
since 1977. Although BANADE makes short term and commercial bank type loans,
it is basically a long-term lender. About 80% of its outstanding loans on
November 30, 1980 were for more than three years. The branch offices have
been active in committing loans and have been responsible for committing
annually since 1977 between 20% and 40% of BANADE's peso lending. Although
all industrial subsectors have benefitted from BANADE lending, emphasis has
been given in recent years to lending to the petrochemical industry.
58.       Lending Terms.  Foreign currency loans are repayable by BANADE's
subborrowers in the currency in which BANADE borrows and carry an interest
rate that includes a fixed margin above BANADE's borrowing costs. The principal
of peso loans, other than short-term working capital loans, are indexed based
on the Central Bank's computed weighted average of interest rates paid on term
deposits (tasa testigo). The mark-ups above the tasa testigo vary between
2-13.5% depending on the type of project and its location. The lowest interest
rates apply to industrial projects located in frontier areas and mining
exploration projects. The amortization period of loans for industries in
frontier areas is up to 12 years including 2 years of grace, bearing an
interest rate of 2% per annum plus indexation. The interest rates for new
projects qualifying under the Industrial Promotion Law are 5% and 7% plus
indexation for expansion projects and equipment financing. These loans
are made on terms of up to 12 years, including 2 years of grace. Fixed
working capital credits bearing interest rates between 9% and 13.5% per
annum plus indexation are provided to industries for up to 12 years,
including 2 years of grace for production expansion and debt restructuring.
59.       Financial Position and Results.  BANADE's Policy Statement limits
its debt to ten times its capital and reserves. At year end 1980 the debt
equity/ratio was 5.5:1, which although much higher than the 2.6:1 ratio at
year-end 1979, still allows for considerable additional leverage. The ratio
rose due to continued growth in liabilities and some equity erosion in real
terms. Since 1976 BANADE has had a substantial growth, with its loan port-
folio having increased sixty fold, total assets forty-two fold and equity
seventeen fold, during a period when there was a twenty-two fold increase in
the wholesale price index.
60.       BANADE maintained a steady growth in its net earnings in the period
1976 to 1979. Return on total assets averaged between 11% and 15% during that
period. The situation changed sharply in 1980, when return on total assets
dropped to 2%. The relatively poor 1980 performance was attributable to the



- 17 -
negative spread in BANADE's peso lending. BANADE indexed its loans to the
wholesale price index at a time when the rate of increase in wholesale prices
lagged behind the interest rate BANADE had to offer to maintain deposits.
Since early 1981, however, all new term loans in pesos have interest rates
based on the tasa testigo and rates on all outstanding term peso loans were
converted from the wholesale price index base to the tasa testigo base. As
a result, BANADE's earnings in the latter part of 1981 should recover and
earnings for 1982 should show a strong gain over 1980. Assurances were
obtained that the Government will undertake to require BANADE to take all
such measures as may be necessary to maintain BANADE's equity in real terms
(.Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement).
61.       Portfolio Quality and Reserves.  In spite of the problems affecting
Argentina's economy, the quality of BANADE's portfolio has remained satisfac-
tory because of its: (a) conservative approach to lending; (b) good appraisal
capability; and (c) proportionally large lending to sectors that have not been
seriously affected by competition from imports. Arrears over three months
represent 4% of the portfolio and the provision for bad debt is an adequate
10.2% of the portfolio.
62.       External Auditing Arrangements.  Until early this year Argentine
law required that BANADE's accounts be audited by the Central Bank. The first
Bank-financed credit project provided that the audit be submitted to the Bank
within four months of the end of BANADE's fiscal year. BANADE's accounts were
last audited by the Central Bank for its fiscal year ending December 31, 1978.
The 1980 banking crisis placed competing demands on the Central Bank's staff,
resulting in a decree in February 1981 requiring that all banks, including
BANADE, be audited by external auditors for the year ending December 31, 1981.
In view of the difficulties for external auditors to verify control systems in
effect in prior years, BANADE proposed and the Bank agreed to an interim
arrangement for the Sindico 1/ to hire qualified auditors to perform the audit
of BANADE's 1980 accounts following Bank guidelines. The Bank has received
the audit and it is considered satisfactory. For the year 1981 and subsequent
years, BANADE's accounts will be audited by independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank and the results of such audits will be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the end of BANADE's fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the Loan
Agreement).
Project Implementation
63.       A review of BANADE's financing needs indicates that there is likely
to be a demand for foreign currency commitments of about US$870 million
through the loan commitment period (year end 1983).  The estimate of demand
takes into account pending loan applications and serious inquiries received by
BANADE.  As Bank funds would represent only about 11% of BANADE's estimated
foreign exchange requirements during the loan commitment period, Bank funds
would have to be supplemented by other external funds (para. 71).
1/   Sindico is the Government's appointed representative for supervising
BANADE's compliance with its Charter and other applicable laws,
decrees and regulations.



- 18 -
64.       The Energy Conservation Component.  A Bank review of the conserva-
tion potential for industry concluded that industry's energy use efficiency
could be increased by approximately 15% through introducing a number of "good
housekeeping" practices and, in some cases, retrofitting with specifically
designed equipment. The eventual reduction in industrial energy costs implied
by those energy savings is estimated to be US$216 million/year. It was
further estimated that 36% of this conservation potential can be achieved by
1985 if an effective industrial energy conservation program is started in
1981. Such a program would require a promotional campaign, training workshops
and approximately 500-600 energy audits to be performed over the 1981-85 period.
The estimated investment in equipment for retrofitting is about US$100 million.
65.       The conservation program supported by this project will involve
strengthening and extending the capabilities of BANADE and the Instituto
Nacional de Tecnologia Industrial (INTI), a government organization that
furnishes technical support to industry. BANADE will establish a line of
credit for conservation investments, i.e., investments which will reduce
production costs through a more efficient use of energy. The Bank loan will
allocate US$10 million to this program. Although it is possible that demand
for these funds could reach as much as US$40 million during the loan commitment
period, a conservative approach is justified in view of delays that could be
encountered in initiating a new program. BANADE will perform the credit
appraisal based on its standard procedures and .:.ll rely on INTi for the
technical appraisal. Technical appraisals can be performed by third parties,
such as private consultants or the firms themselves, subject to INTI's review.
The terms of the relationship between BANADE and INTI will be established in
an agreement between the two institutions (Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement).
The signing of this agreement is a condition of loan disbursement for the
energy conservation component of the project (Section 2.02(d) of the Loan
Agreement).
66.       INTI's participation in the conservation program will have four
principal components:  (i) an energy advisory service that will perform energy
audits for all subsectors of industry and perform the technical appraisal of
loan applications under BANADE's conservation credit line; (ii) a training
program to prepare energy auditors and company energy managers; (iii) a
promotion campaign for energy conservation; and (iv) laboratory services as
necessary to support the program. INTI's services will be mainly directed
at medium and small industry and within three years INTI should be able to
perform about 200 energy audits per year. This program will complement the
planned energy conservation study under the Bank's Refinery Conversion Project
(Loan 2032-AR) which includes a number of audits of major plants.
67.       The Provincial Banks.  The provincial banks are those owned or
controlled by the provincial governments in Argentina. There are currently
26 such banks in the country and they have about 20% of the deposits in the
banking system. The provincial banks have extensive field office networks in
the provinces that they serve, which allows them to reach communities that
BANADE with its more restricted field office establishment is unable to reach.
The provincial banks represent a largely untapped resource for channeling
credits to the industrial sector.



- 19 -
68.       The provincial banks included in the project will promote the
credit line and will provide project preparation assistance to potential
subborrowers. They will assume the credit risk for loans and will provide
complementary funds where necessary. BANADE will do the appraisal of sub-
projects for the provincial banks and charge a fee for this service. The
provincial banks will have the following obligations: (i) assure that BANADE's
loan policies and regulations are observed; (ii) give their approval in prin-
ciple to subloans before they are submitted to BANADE for appraisal; (iii)
supervise the use of funds by the subborrower; (iv) issue periodic reports on
the progress of subprojects; (v) maintain records of subloans; and (vi) comply
with reasonable requests for information from BANADE. This delineation of
responsibilities will be spelled out in subsidiary loan contracts that would
be entered into by BANADE and the provincial banks on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement). The signing
of these agreements will be a condition of disbursement of loan proceeds for
onlending to the provincial banks (Section 2.02(d) of the Loan Agreement).
69.       Subloan Terms and Conditions.  Subloans from BANADE and the provin-
cial banks will have maturities of up to 15 years including a reasonable grace
period not to exceed 3 years. Unless the Bank otherwise agrees, Bank loan
funds for any one subproject will be limited to US$7 million if there were no
other external financing included in the subproject. Bank loan funds for a
subproject can exceed US$7 million and be as much as US$12 million, provided
that Bank loan funds over US$7 million will be matched by an equal or greater
amount of foreign financing (Section 2.02(a) of the Loan Agreement). It is
anticipated that this arrangement will encourage additional cofinancing.
Subloans will be reloaned in either pooled currencies or in dollars, and
will carry an interest rate equal to the Bank rate, plus a spread of 2.5% for
BANADE's administrative costs, a commitment fee on the undisbursed balance,
and at least 2.5% to cover cross-currency risk in the case of dollar subloans.
Thus, dollar subloans will carry an interest rate equal to the Bank rate plus
a total spread of at least 5%. The interest and fee schedule of provincial
bank subborrowers will be no less than that established for BANADE's
subborrowers (Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement).
70.       When submitting subprojects, BANADE will advise the Bank of any
Government measures that have significantly increased the effective protection
of the product to be produced. The free limit for subloans will be US$2.5
million, except (i) that BANADE will submit for the Bank's approval, the first
two energy conservation subprojects and the first two subprojects from each
provincial bank and (ii) where there has been a substantial increase in effec-
tive protection since loan signing for the product of a subproject for which
financing is being sought, the free limit will be reduced to US$500,000 (Section
2.02(c) of the Loan Agreement). New or expansion subprojects will have economic
rates of return calculated for subloans over US$500,000 and financial rates of
return for subloans over US$100,000. Re-equipment or modernization subprojects
will have economic rates of return calculated for subloans over US$2 million and
financial rates of return for subloans over US$500,000. In addition, BANADE
will calculate economic rates of return on subprojects irrespective of size
where there has been a significant increase in the effective protection of goods
to be produced by the subprojects (Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement).



20 -
Cofinancing
71.       BANADE expects to enter into cofinancing agreements of about US$200
million with private foreign banks. The agreements will include a cross-
default clause, agreement to exchange relevant information and provision to
channel service payments through the Bank. The maturity of the private
foreign loans are expected to be about eight years. In order to facilitate
the mixing of the shorter term private funds and to assist BANADE in matching
the amortization of subloans to the amortizations of its external borrowings
as closely as possible, the Bank agreed to permit BANADE to adjust toward
the later maturities the amortization of subloans from Bank funds (Section
2.08(b) of the Loan Agreement). Such action will permit a more even subloan
repayment schedule and a less onerous debt service burden on subborrowers
during the early years of a subproject.
Retroactive Financing
72.       Retroactive financing of up to US$5 million will be available to
finance expenditures under subloans of not more than US$500,000 after the
date of approval of the Loan by the Bank's Executive Directors (Section
2.02(d) of the Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
73.       As a standard procedure, BANADE requires that its borrowers receive
three quotations in purchasing goods financed by its loans, unless it is
demonstrated that the obtaining of such quotations is not feasible. A
further administrative check is made by BANADE on the reasonableness of
prices, even after quotations are received. For this project, BANADE gave the
assurance that for procurement of goods and civil works in contracts of
US$500,000 or more, private firms will be asked to identify principal local
and foreign sources of supply and will solicit price quotations from a reason-
able number of them (Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement). BANADE will provide
potential sub-borrowers a model subloan agreement specifying the procurement
procedures which the sub-borrowers should follow. Disbursement of funds for
subprojects will be on the following basis: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures
for direct imports; (b) 60% of total expenditures of foreign equipment
purchased off the shelf; (c) 45% of total expenditures for locally produced
goods for energy conservation sub-projects; and (d) 30% of total expenditures
for locally produced equipment. The percentages above represent estimated
average foreign exchange costs. Under the technical assistance component, the
Bank would disburse: (i) 75% of the cost of consultancy services and computer
software; and (ii) 100% of training expenditures abroad (Section 2.02(a) of
the Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
74.       The proposed project supports the Government's objective of making
the industrial sector in Argentina more efficient. It would do so by financing
the foreign exchange costs of credits for the purchase of equipment to modernize
industry, to expand and create new production, to assist the mining industry
and to aid industry in conserving energy. The loan will be expected to
stimulate cofinancing of US$200 million; loan funds will be used with shorter
term and higher interest commercial credits to finance the subprojects.



- 21 -
75.       The loan would be of particular assistance to industries which find
the purchase of new equipment essential to maintaining their competitive position.
The project will provide important institutional assistance to INTI to establish
an industrial energy conservation program. The energy audit surveys will be the
basis of obtaining credits from BANADE to finance energy saving capital invest-
ments. Such investments will not only make Argentine industry more efficient,
but will have positive effects on the balance of payments. Important institu-
tional assistance will also be provided to BANADE in improving its management
control and information systems and developing its human resources. The loan
would bring the resources of provincial banks to bear in making development
credits available to industries that might not otherwise be reached by BANADE.
It is anticipated that the project will generate 1,500 new jobs. This figure
is relatively low because the equipment financing and energy conservation
components of the project will not generate net new employment and the new
production and expansion projects will be designed to be labor efficient to make
their products more competitive.
76.       The project's major risks are (a) changes in exchange rate and interest
rate policies that would make the line of credit unattractive and (b) a return
to protectionist policies that would stifle progress towards increased industrial
efficiency. However, the Government has provided a statement to the Bank affirm-
ing its efforts to support the development of efficient industry in Argentina.
The Government will also undertake a comprehensive industrial sector profile
study, including an analysis of effective protection, which will help define the
areas of comparative advantage and assist in setting guidelines for further
tariff reform. The Government will discuss with the Bank the results of the
effective protection study and future course of action with regard to industrial
sector policies (Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement). Recent economic
events also indicate increasing financial constraints on the part of private
investors and the possibility of a slowdown in economic growth which may result
in lower demand for subloans under this project. It is estimated, however,
that there is a substantial number of projects in the pipeline that will
generate demand up to year-end 1983. This loan is estimated to be about 11%
of BANADE's expected foreign currency loan commitments during the loan commit-
ment period.   Other risks in the project are that the new programs in indus-
trial energy conservation and provincial banks might run into start-up problems.
These are normal risks for new programs and are acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Guarantee Agreement between The Argentine Republic and
the Bank, the draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco Nacional de
Desarrollo (BANADE) and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreements are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
78.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III.



- 22 -
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
November 10. 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
ARGENTINA - bOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ARGENTINA                      REPERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE -
TOTAL           2766.9                                 MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1785.0               1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  640.0      1120.0   2230.0                    1616.2                    2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1109.7       1684.3    2038.3                   1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 20611.0      23748.0  27313.0
URRAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 73.6         78.4      82.0                     64.2                      53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       34.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         42.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         7.4         8.6       9.9                     34.3                      80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      12.0        13.0      15.1                     94.5                     133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                          30.8        29.1      28.2                     40.7                      30.1
15-64 YRS.                         63.7         63.7      63.4                     55.3                      61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    5.5         7.2       8.4                      4.0                       8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.         1.4       1.6                      2.4                       1.5
URBAN                               3.0         2.0       2.1                      3.7                       3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.5        21.7      20.8                     31.4                      22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       8.6         8.6       7.8                      8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.5         1.4       1.4                      2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.0       101.0     126.0                    108.3                     119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  122.0        130.0     126.0                    107.6                     125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          104.0       109.0     109.5                     65.8                      92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       65.0         69.0      71.2                     34.0                      39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       6.4         4.6       3.2                      7.6                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    65.4         68.1      70.2                     64.1                      68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           62.4         588.9       ..                     70.9                      25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              47.3        56.0      66.0                     65.7
URBAN                              58.9        69.0      76.0                     79.7
RURAL                               9.6        12.0      26.0                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        85.0      97.0                     59.9
URBAN                                ,.        87.0     100.0                     75.7
RURAL                                ..        79.0      83.0                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           740.2        516.7     530.0                   1728.2                     973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      1004.0        .,                   1288.2                     896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             157.4       175.0        ..                    471.2                     262.3
URBAN                               ,.        199.0                              558.0                     191.8
RURAL                                '        998.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..        ..                       ..                      18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               3.7         3.8
URBAN                               3.5          ..
RURAL                               4.3          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.4         1.4
URBAN                               1.3         1.4
RURAL                               1.7          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              69.2        76.0      79.0/c
URBAN                             84.7           ..
RURAL                              18.6          ..



ANNEX 1
- 24 -                                            AME   -
Page 2 of 5
ARGENTINA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ARGENTINA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) 
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  98.0        106.0      110.0                    101.7                      105.9
MALE                  98.0        106.0      110.0                    103.0                      109.6
FEMALE                99.0        107.0      111.0                    101.5                      102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  23.0         32.0       41.0                     35.3                       66.3
MALE                  23.0         30.0       38.0                     34.9                       73.2
FEMALE                24.0         35.0       44.0                     35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  50.0           58.0       66.0                     30.1                       28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             22.0         19.0       18.0                     29.6                       26.8
SECONDARY                            7.0          7.0        7.0                     15.7                       23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         91.0         92.6       94.0                     80.0                       75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          24.0         60.6      81.0                      42.6                       83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         169.8        379.0     377.7                     215.0                      181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          21.8        147.4     173.7                      89.0                      131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  155.0        178.8      102.9                     62.8                      123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0            2.0        2.5                      3.2                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8134.0       9215.8   10475.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    21.4         24.7       26.2                     22.6                       32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               20.0         16.4       13.4                     35.0                       34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  35.9         32.1      28.4                      23.2                       28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.5         38.8       38.4                     31.8                       42.3
MALE                                  61.0         58.1       56.6                     49.0                       56.5
FEMALE                                17.2         19.3       20.1                     14.6                       28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          0.9        1.0                       1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   27.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9           50.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9            4.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.6           14.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                    187.6.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     653.0                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     577.0                     362.2                      385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UR BAN                                ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Percent of population.
/d   The updated GCP per capita and population estimate to be shown in
the 1981 World bank Atlas are US$2,400 (at 1978-80 prices) and                             May, 1981
27740.0 (thousands).



ANNEX I
-25 -                                                            Page 3 cf 5
DEFtNITiONSi -Op SOCIAL ItliCATORS
fnned   Although the data ac  dreno fet   ore    eeal  judged the most authorctonln1  and reIbl,I  should elan be oned that they ThY not be tttr-
nationalIly  -oepeeble bereu.e of the  .eok of sta.derdte deIttiu eoroopeuebyAisennunesinoloigthdaa Tedtee,nn-
bsiese, .. usful no desonrihe -det  of  mgitd,ltdlcate treds, und                      _e_teto    niati  sajo  differe..oes bsin--tn-ttrias.
The        ..    ..fr ..s soop   one (I)he    % see .cttony group of nba subject cotrY and (Ili a1noonrY group nith eo-erhe  Afighan avereg  i-e  than the onontry group
of ns mbje-tcountry  sep  ton  'aitaOupaOl.                 Lootrrgru       .hn  "rddl  (noos  Noth AfnipanridsLn'isosnhe softogr
Iaof   yo   hnotrs   na nu atatho   htudloo.IIc  the coeaeo                                      borne  enIo the' dtdiler  dEpends on the..  ebnlahIf    of dot
one indictor eta Ities amon  the Inou.eny endcennogcp.
L0Db  AREA (thousan.d aq.ko.(                                                                      otulnnchsIa   e      oa)ura,_adcrl-Fplt                                 ttl
Total - fetal sufm-   Ice  ttlp,i.og land enea and Illot.        ans u:                                   n  ronel) dtnldsd by thi.r rePutlue eumbar of hosPital beds
beriouftura1    f          Iot   f ogIoutoro  free used ospoaily on pormacenly                    avilbL    it built and p,ioee  enra  edspraIeed hosp,italenfd i-
for  rope, Pastrs, socket ondr ittben gordon. or to lit fe1lne; 1978 dato.                     bh llt:.ioeotetc.    opto   so   aelib.n  peci                 nnL    taffe
byoI(ent   n  phystntan    tatbl1bent  praniding prin-ipellyrusto-
IN   i   AITA (lii) - GN, per  . tapn   a -manse at torren  nrket pircn   -o1-                dia  _ter  are not intladad.  Rural hoepituls,   toer,Ild   elth
tulanodby eaatteeoInhda   ol   nhAls(977   et)   ii                                                nd endial1 centrs no  pecanetly stffed byba physlol (bu 'by'a
1971, end 1979 daio.                                                                              -edic-   sssat,trs,sdrnfe  err.) rhiob offer l-ein coo
dentn  nd  roideeIlfaitad  rega of-ditel f-itligies,  Fc  tat
ENERG cCONSiUMPTION PER CAPITA - Aonoal totecptiun of to--nil  urg   colnel  puy ss  uban hospif 1I Ieosbesp innplgnnlhatee
end lIgnite. petroleum., natra  ga  and bydro-,. ...ea  an d geotbernal als-                      at  curel h'oepitaig6 1ona  or~ rural brapitel  en1d adclsd   aent
trinit y) in bi  Irn    f  -a  equi-alet per no pine; 1960, 1970, red 197)                        oentsr.SIipetlfeed hopitals are innludad only  ed-r ntatl.
date.                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Adnisaio.na. ret    pitfa  te B - Tona  nu..har nf adeission  to or dianbhogas
fcc. hospitlsl dividnd by the number of beds.
POPULATION ffN1 VITAL, STATISTICS
Tatel FPonult In. aHid-Tsarh (thousand) - At of July 1; 1960, 1979. ned 1979                 tOuiNG
des                                                                                          Av--en  lio  of aHhsnl   .t..so               hoshold) - rtotl, unban, and  utol -
Urben Poiation (            Iren   f tota) - Ratio of unbar no total population                   A houhbldoelt  ofarop o'f iediVidua . nb  shor.frigqut
difst fefinittoes of cob an arose sapaffect.. ooparabitye of d ta                          end their molt eels.  A bta-d- onloger say cc_sy mt he intluded lo
_Smngo..uIill; 1960, 1971, ed1979 dan.                                                         th  hoshodfor stetienral Pu.psos
Pan..lationPnecin                                                                              A-ereenugar  f aenears pn taos - total, urben, end rural  - Averge  un
Poruletan in rea  liii - Curren  population projeotice  erhmdo  191                            he b1 i pIrf        perroa  in eIl urban. and rural onrtapd neeaa
rrlpopulation by age end sea sod their mortaIty ad          rtIiyrae.                    dnelling, caeentnlp.  bellng   selde  a-preno   ernusad
Projection paramters for mortality rates noepti leIf three Ienrlsassum-                      umootpied parits,d
ing life Iapoteon a.   t birth lnra ,n nith noonny"'s fern -pita iInn...                   .ne. no Eisnnfti        )eeran  of drellingaf - ntatl. oro,ae         1ua  -
local,edfeaela enpernenty  rebllieitog en 77.5 years   M.e Pare-                           Covn Ioa  deellins oth s1isro ~rtty tnIf.         e  qurtr  as....I
senor  for fertili,ty cat  la  hove three Isn-ls aesuing dncltoe in                         of tonal  urbe I n   urldslfgooanfey
fertility o-ording no L.ose leve  and poet fasily planning peirfoo-..
Eoth  ...otry i. then aesignad one of these ems  Iofnain   ortscility                   ELAThyION
and fertility trends ton projennion IPo",as                                                Adfioeed inroleent  atios
fiottnaryeoruanio-1.Inastaio...ryaplatnthere Ie on gconth store                          Pnisare abtnl - total  maIn and f s1al  - Gross Itona, sale and femal
the birth rate  n equal to the da_brr,ed  lotn   g  errundture11  no-                           Inolio            ll.ae  It tba primarY lee   s    cneg-o   esetv
_aietoseat,This Is arivdoly efe  fertlyrae  d lln  nn                                            r imary   ooo-ago PoP.letire..; torealy iscIade  "tbida aged:  0-Icil
the repleosmen  leve  of unit o-   epeun"nIae,o en    h genovinyears but adjuond fordtfea  Iagb   f primary ed-otiae; for
of  -aa  replaces Itself enertly.  Tha at_nietry pouaio   ats  ssran iis  th uitteses  Idonatiot  nul-en  se  emoted lID percent
esi:ta-td ton Ibabais of tho projeoted oartehein    f  b  population                           elo   aePupl",eb norsoethe official school age.
intbe yea  2lOll, and rhs cene of danlineofrIliyrueto replet-                                 oon        cho  - tota, solo and resal  - Computed g  shone; esoosd.cy
ret leel                                                                                      odu-tian reureIt least foo  pear  of appon-d primaryitutl;
Tets-     onr  co a ion to eanhbd - The  -ee  oh-  tnosito.ry pryIlatfon                          proides ge..eral. nttional, or tsoohen treini.g Letnutritioe.  foe pupib
site has b.sor.eabed.                                                                          usully of 10 fa 17 pears of 05;nareepoedence n-aes  era ..genllp
Per; en, ka. - Oild-yea  popuiettoo pen nq"ece kilo...rtr (111  bettors.) of                    Oosctiol  enroil.eot (pIrosto  ssaeey)-Paaiag  iretitatiot..
total ssa  190 01, 1970 and 1979 dana.                                                         ioluds ttthoioa   t'dneerial, or onhr pregros   bi.o.. arenen  ied.pnd-
Pre.k. _otoltr_   len.d - Computed us oboes fo.r                1routro -ed                 solp or us depoctesei  of asoedesy mtitotln.-
ony; 1960. 1970 end 1978 dora.                                                             Pcnil-nnnhecratt  - rot'ary  an  sanneador  - Tate1 etudeena sarolld is
Poato hAs Iruros  er-e)- Childoam  (0-l4 Years), norkiog-ag  (IT-                             prilany and secndaY level  dinida   by nohere of tearhea  in the
I1 ar),adrtired  r6S years and aver) as pecore..tgee If std-year poot-                  tararodina  e-sl..
letina;- 1,900, 1970. aed 1979 dare.                                                            Malt loter-c ratefoperent) - Lit.eata adults fable no read god trite)
poroltin Or..eth Rote in--n)-toa  - A.nul ger -b rate  of toto1 nid-                                e Iprr..etage  of  tota  adult popolatin aged 11 years andovr
peat populetinee for .....h., 1960-70, and 1970-79.
Populetiun Gle..eb Rat   rrno)-  ra   Auaue1 grooth rotas of urbanpoo                        CO5SiTIOf'N0
latose IIt 1950-60, 1961-70, edI1970-79.                                                     Passenge  Care(p. frtrhensd ennulatisef - Pa"Iavorstmoe  sonar
Crude  ithn ton  (par thousand) - Aunu1 live biorha per thousan.d of si-po                       nr  seaieglas  thn  ihtpres;    luo  ambuloss  hearses and
poplatiot; 1900, 1970, end 1979 data                                                           eftarvbils
Crude teeth rats  poe thonead) - Aenuo  deerba pao thouse..ds of utd-y...                      Radio R ..lo-ra  (... ethso-d raultoe    All tIe  o               siesfoe radio
pplto;11.1970, end 1979 deta,                                                        broad-asts no gesra1 poblin  o  thooan  ofrpltiom   aoldeI0
her eaea  ro_ dunP        prilod if she.pgieu           esn   g-open f i    n                   ai  I    in efor; date for nareen yang say not he oopa-bl.iesat
niiyane   saly flo-yeor aveags  ending in 190   91,ad1)9                              en-oooeuhlso   lrmlg
famiy Ploanne-=utlier-ene  (tosns)-hnalos    of9''    enetd                    eT 19t9ive-ttirec t.ihouad eaiuleiong.                      Ventoe    nhodatt
naeso  oild -eA'in  eg  f1t   1  pascleh   us  btb-'Drie I...me  nottRo...   Ci-oulatioh errhtadrnaatm-dteateanrg
puhbli-iio  dented prilatily to retandleg gne..    eons,.  It io oa...idsrd
pOOp 001 OITRITIOON                                                                                 no be "dailY" if in op"ras   at leastIf. Lot illa steel.
laden of Food Pouu  peeCato  (99-71-100) - Inden of por n-pita actual.                         Cinem  Aonnua Attenoea-  P,, ignite P..  ee- -.Bad on the neb-r as
producion ofal food  Io_adteio1.6 Pooduonino eanludn  see..d and fee.dtend                     tikthe   sold during the Peat, ierludieg adm Ifen     to fotn-im  oiesa
is 00           Y...a pe  haste.  Cosadlit.I_eoo     potmony goods (e.g. euaoasad sebiln..ite..
:teasa   ofaue) e,hich are  dila. and cnenuaia(e.g9. nones- end
taoes  alue)   Aggregate production of moth...ntry, Is busd. ontABlO  FORCE
nationl  aveag ;PIpcfdao   pr,int -ighto; 1911-, 1970, end 1979 date.                        Tonal Labor Por. te        .. )huodsl    trsnialyative P..ss  itolding
Port nie sonl  ofcalris f_ ee(P  nt ofcsutsetsf. -  opue   ro                              mdfrcsed unsployed bunsetladinighosisestdn.sr,
enry IqFnu   ofno  rood sopolisa anal.lble i In cunty pe   ept                      oaigpplateo   i   et                  sitinio.. is n-ti"u  ooti    t
pe  dy.  Aveilabl s.upplies taspeise doetcpducto,tm...es.e oaaal    91  17   n  1979 dana
eaoos,sd chenge  ie snot.  fist sopollee  otlode animal feed;, ard,Peat(rct)-anl Fehonfacts .a patange of total lahor force.
qunities use  to fond pr.o.ebiog, and. Ibeset ,in, distributo.r  haut-aentiut  etet  -  fatfonei fasig  fo.rery, honnieg ad
manna ears estimated by Pad  endo  ohysIoIglcl neesoo _nJa anti-                             flebiuig rsprcno         ftotal Ilabo  force; 1900, 1970 and 1979 date.
city and health ....eidenlog evreutltn our  body  sgt,ae                                   Industry (Paosn)-....fro.ftsong  nn truito,   eatnrg
andysnditributIon of population, and sooing ii Percent fcaset                                and eecttnloity, mater and gs  speottgeo   otta1 laho  fence; 1960,
hoosahoid  o_el; 1901-61, 197i,. ad 19)7 d.ta.                                               197 0 end1979 data,
Per rootta  -upply of  -nol  lenses  .re fey) - Pro ancn ero  yntpe                          Potrnict           IIi Rtsmatet  - natal.le  'ed femle- Psttiatio   o
net  'opp, of fond PoeI dy.  tint supply of food to deflined us above,c Os-                  Irilytr.aeoaa                   s  tota, sale, aed' feml Iaorfatsa
qufoeuefo   i  countIe  establishe1d bY USDA provide for inintc                              P-rt-efage  of totl,   ae  n  femal  Populate of all a Ie resetivey
alImse   6f00gae   f tona  Prtein pan day and 20 grass of sntm1 and                          1910, 1970, mod l979 deet,  T see. are Iaa ... d   ilL'sP prtiototion rates
poles pcnntni, mfieloh 10 gtamo should be enima  protein.  These stand-elcigaesa oooeo  the pouaio,sd long time orend.A
sof  se  loer  henthI  I f 71 gras  of total protein and 27 gram cIf                    fnetmesoermna iona  sources'
soImal protein as anontaefor rbsnon1d, proposed by FAQ in thu Third                         no..osic Dapedltdo   Ratio -ratio of populetion ondar 15 end 65 aod cr-r
crid food fanner; 1911-10, 19.70 and1077 dens:ftt..                                          to  the Iotc) (shot Cocos
Pentrit  croltio sandy f. coalsl ad cs-PI                t      _nspply of food de-
rtve  foe  ,nIa an  pulse  in erase perI day; 1901-15, 1970 nod 1)7)d tOm.               ItNoC.  oltTuninoION
Chid  lans1-0  nunattvRac  (cn rooso_     -  noldethpr  housand In.                                       I etnuno   rvto  Onnom  iboth to cah and kiod) - tocetnd by rith-
age group 1-4 yea rs, no children to thi. Age group; foreer.. Iee lgIou-Penrent, richest 20 pret  poo 0n 7prcaut, sad poorest 00 percent
tries data d-i-ed Lone life imblas; 1960, (970 and 1979 data.                                   If hneeholds,
tROTO                                                                                          PuVlcTY PIoGtT GROUPt
Life RoPentanpa ith(ot)-    A--rgs numbnr of yours of liftronugTh  fol1ning esimae  errcon   pprooimats Iesno f povety Ilovl,
an birth; 1160. 1970 an  1979 dat.adshudh  iterrtdwt   oeioel   ann
Infant r Ooalt itoest (per ch.us...d) -Ahoue1 doatbIf ci  foths undc con yroc                  itmed  abslute Poverty  Innoh  leve Id h  ooneit)-uhs  ndite 
of age .per thousand lint births.                                                              Abecl-t  p-o-n  incom  level is than ina    lve  bol1m ehith   Inia
Aooet  to Sit Ltte  (-rcot of rorloton- toa   ura, ond tuna. 1- tau-                           itcini llyedeqaotr dist plus... rill..a        . n-f oud nequiremets it IIt
ban. ofpeol  (ttl   ran.o ue)  tbnaonheaontoat-fodable.
eater suply  (Inludes rcaced eo fate uance or  ornR ... boot uccccsicnm       PttutdOlaie          -oetv Intn  Level (USl tsr -acit.  -unbar ed Irurl1
eae   ut  othat from protected borhls   pog,00ent                  ns   0tR-l reatv    p...nly innose lev l    one-thidcavrg  pe inpto
pe sagoo   heirosptvanpline   Inactbec onto a publIc                                   Isra  ionn _P thef uutcy                IIo level is derived free th Iunmi
founainor  canyretloctedcotaur  thnI0mtc   reahos   a   ei"Pot   djamn   o   ihrto  o   iigi   ne   ms
ondedatbaibe -,i.b r.....nabltr eccous of that house:.   lv toa a-    a               eiae    oulin   eo   boue   oet IotLve   cnet       re
dtrth-rocvodnrnct nnu7-.. i to  -- por  nihe don it torh;ivg the
AOuntly' stnr  ondn..                                              ~b         -
percetage oIIf their ronspacci_ onpulatlon..      tccnta dlapno  moI Ylood
the n-11-tice and doap-sl, nich or nill...                     h       ...nnt  o   buuo toit                                         Otnstmd  atOrreRn
anYet~as neter-bote.  sst   or the usI        rni   ccu rd tint                                                      fconoin A.nalsi  and Pn-J-cnn.. iepoc-tet
.en inanI IlertoneI                                                                                                                                rep 1901      - I
Pouufo   a   hysi.iat - Population dicidad by number If pracniniog phyel-
nin  qua...lified Onc  a modItaltbol at i .. cucctty 1n-1
F-orulato e  tusn   Pro-Pecultion dintdod by noube  of Ocancintg
male and femal  gn-doono-     ee,pracint lnures  ad aeIIto   usr



-26-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
E C 0 N OM I C   D E V E L O P M E N T   D A T A
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS a'                           Actual              Estimated   Projected
1970-
1976        1977        1979,Y      1980                    1976               1976        1979
Annual Growth
Millions of US$ at 1978 Prices and Exchange Rate                 Rates         As percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product             53,484      56,240       59,886      60,906                    3.3               100.7      99.3
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)        -385        -293          400         720                     *-                     .77
Gross Domestic Income              53,099      55,947      60,286       61,626                   3.3                100.0    100.0
Import Goods and NFS                3,837       4,456       7,922       9,854                   13.1                  7.2      13.1
Export Goods and NFS               -4,996      -6,841       7,871      -_,209                    9.7                 -9.4    -13.1
Resource Gap                       -1,159      -2,385           51       1,645                                       -2.2       0.0
Consumption Expenditures           41,157      41,847      46,491      49.248                    3.3                 77.7      77.1
Investment Expenditures            10,685      11,720      13,846      14,023                    5.0                 20.2      23.0
Domestic Savings                   11,844      14,022      13,795      13,378                    4.5                 22.3      22.9
National Savings                   11,440      13,535      13,300      12,072                    3.6                 21.4      22.1
MERCHANDISE TRADE                        Annual Data at Current US6$                                            As percent of total
Import s
Capital Goods                      500        874       2,241        2,922                     -                  18       33.6
Intermediate Goods               1,870      2,402        3,418       4,292                     -                 61.3      51.2
Petroleum & Products               560        584         617          868                    -                  18.4       9.2
Consumption Goods                   70          98         398       1,103                     -                   2.3       6.0
Total Merch. Imports (c.i.f.)       3,050       3,958       6,674       9,186                     -                 100.0    100.0
Exports
Primary products                 2,807       3,842       6,778      6,754                      -                 7&.6      86.8
Manufactured goods                 956       1,495       1.027         909                     -                  25,4      13.2
Total Merch.Exports (f.o.b.)        3,763       5,337       7,805       7,663                     -                 100.0    100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                        Average 1978 = 100
Bxport Price Index                     83          91         127        145
Import Price Indez                     83          97         118        130
Terms of Trade Index                   95          99         109        111
VALUE-ADDED bY SECTOR              Annual Data at 1978 Prices and Exchange Rate
Agriculture                         6,365       6,7t.9      7,235        7,452                  3.0                  11.9      12.1      12.4
Industry and Mining               20,805      23,621       27,677      28,230                   6.9                  38.9      46.2      47.2
Services and others               26.314      25.870       24,974      25;Z24                    .5                  49.2     41.7       40.4
Total                             53,484      56,240       59,886      60,906                   3.4                 100.0    100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                     Annual Data at Current Prices                                                        As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)                     billions of $a
iI                                      .   i    
Current Receipts                  ,984       3,040      18,319                                                   12.3      13.1
Current Expenditures               903       2,183      15,089                                                   11.3      10.8
Budgetary Savings                   81         857       3,230                                                     1.0      2.3
Transfers (net)                   -483        -724      -1,641                                                    6.1        1.1
Investment                         343         920       3,840                                                    4.3       2.7
SELECTED INDICATORS                  1965-       1970-       1975-
(Calculated from 3-yr. av. data)  1970           1975        1980
Average ICOR                          4.4         6.9         6.8
Import Elasticity                     1.1         0.9         1.4
Marginal Domest.Saviga,eRateL(2.)  26.7          10.6        43.7
Marginal Nat'l Savings Rate (7.)   23.2          16.2        44.5
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER                     LABOR FORCE                                      VALUE-ADDED PER WORKER IN 1975  PRICES
WORKER                           I                                                              AND EXCHANGE RATE
In millions  In % of Total   Annual Growth Net            In US$          Percent of Av.    Growth
1970    1975   1970   1975           1970/75              1970   1975    1970   1975          1970/75
Agriculture                      1,474   1,420       16     14           - 0.7             3,357  3,575        81      79         1.2
Industry                         2,948   2,941      32      29             0.0             5,407  6,842       131    150          4.5
Services                        4,790   5,779       52      57             3.8             4.140  3,618       100      80        -2.4
TOTAL                            9,213  10,140    100    100               1.0             4,133  4,551       100    100          1.9
MONEY AND PRICES                     1975        1976        1977         1978            1979
(billions of $a)
Money Supply (Ml)                   330.6    1,259.9    3,080.0    7,742.9                18,545.0
M1+ time deposits (M2)              409.7    1,838.4    6,254.2   17,169.3                49,604.0
M. as % of I DP                      23.3        15.8         14.5        14.8                 15.0
M,  as % of ,DP                      28.9        23.0         29.4        32.8                 37.0
CPI Index (1974=lOO)                270.6    1,472.2    4,063.7   11,873.8                29,474.5
% change CPI index                 619.6        444"        116         192                  148
a/  The Argentine Central Bank has undertaken a major revision of the national accounts.  Data in this table are based or
preliminary estimates and are not fully comparable to those presented in Report 2988-AR, dated July 10, 1980.
b/  The 1977-1979 changes reflect to a large extent the, real appreciation of the exchange rate during 1978/79.                     July 31, 1981



-21 -                                                                    ANNEX  I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYI8NTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Amounts in millions of IU.S. dollars at current prices)
Ac t u a I
Estimated
SUIYARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978              1979               1980
Exports (incl. NFS)                  2,389       3,799       4,761       3,669       4,668        6,769       7,689              9,555             10,722
Imports (incl. N*S)                 -2,222      -2,633      -4,218      -4,517      -3,584       -4,892      -4.901             -9,059            -13,689
Resour-e Balance                           167       1,166       1,543        -848       1.084       1,877       2,788                 496            -2,967
Net Interats Payments  .              -323       -382         -388        -425        -464         -370        -387               -493              -956
Direct inveatment Income               -60        -77           -35        -16         -28         -208       '-292               -427               -546
Oth*r Factor Service Income             -3          4             7           1           2         -40        -136               -148               -250
Net FactorService Income                  -386       -455         -416        -440        -490        -618        -815             -1,068             -1, 752
Current Transfers (net)                     -4         10          -             5          18          31          48                  35                30
Balance on Current Account                -223        721          127      -1.283         611       1.290       2,021               -537             -4,690
Private Direct Investment                   10         10          10          -           -           146         290                265                739
Official Capital Grants                     10         26          17            9           8         -           -                  -13                 -
Public N&LT Loans (net)                    205        364         228          -68       1,319         356       1,350              1,297              2,435
Disbursements                          522        832         776          448       1,908        1,064       2,910              2,284             3,081
Amortization                          -317       -468        -548         -516         -590        -708      -1,560              - 987             - 646
Other H&LT Loans (net)                      51       -29           28           -3        -159         519         309              1,607              1,126
Disbursements                          101         71         244          405          268       1,059       1,328             1,988              2,089
Amortization                           -50       -100        -216         -408        -427         -540      -1,019             - 381              - 964
Short-term Capital and
Transactions n.e.i.                     82       -444        -339          275       -1,814          31      -1,558             1,823             -2,406
Change in Reserves
I  (- - increase)                        -135       -648        -71         1,070            17    A34-2    -2,412                -4,442              2 796
\Level of Gross Reserves                    465      1,330       1,286          432        1,589      3,816       5,814             10,256              7,460
GRANT AND LOAN COtMEITMENTS
Offi'cial Grants & Grant-Like
Public M&LT Loanf
IBRD                                -           -           -           -            115        205         165                306
Other Multilateral                   92         57           1          177          165        148         230                323
Bilater6l                            82         42         519           42          146        117          74                41
Suppliers                           118        116         535          307          196        363         339               542
Financial Institutions              390        156         488          126          970        754       1,445             1,770
Bonds                               120         65         290          200          207         93         146               104
Total Public M&LT Loans             802        436       1,833          852        1.803      1,680       2,399             3,086
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Outstanding &
Disbursed                            2,368      2,792       3,046        2,901        4,251      4,836       6,791              8,088
interest on Public Debt                156        199         233          250           258       308         512                915
Repayments on Public Debt              317        468         548           516          589        708      1,576                987
Total Public Debt Service              473        667         781          766           847     1,016       2,088              1,902
Other Debt Service                     174        244         408          626           659       602        1,369               544
Total Debt Service                     647        911       1,189        1,392        1,506      1,61B       3,457              2,446
Buma    ON EXPORT EARNTnr- (2)
Public Debt Service                     19.8       17.6        16.4         20.9          18.1      15.0        27.2             19.9
Total Debt Service                      27.1       24.0        25.0          37.9         32.3      24.0        45.0             25.6
TDS + Dir. Inv. Income                  29.6       26.0        25.7         38.4          32.9      27.0        48.8             30.1
AVERAGE TERMS OF PUBLIC DEBT
Int. as 7% Prior Year DO&D               8.3        8.4         8.3           8.2         8.9        11.6        11.8             9-9
Amort. as 7, Prior Year DO&D            16.9       19.8        19.6          16.9         20.3       36.7        19.7            14.5
'IBRD Debt Outst. & Disbursed           256        302         340           341          342        342         352             363
IBRD as % of Public Debt O&D            10.8       10.8        11.2          11.8          8.0        7.1         5.7             4.5
IBRD Debt Service as 7. of
Public Debt Service                    5.1        4.6         4.5          5.6           5.1        2.2         3.2            3.1
EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed Only)           Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1978                Estimated Debt Otistanding on Dec. 31  1979
Disbursed Only                 Percent
IBED                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~352              52363                                                4.5
Other Multilateral                          552                          8.1                        619                       77
Bilateral                                    728                        10.7                         796                       9.8
Suppliers                                 1,575                         23.2                      1,555                      19.2
Financial Institutions                    2,618                         38.5                      3,858                      477
Bonds                                      _966                         14.3                        897                      11.1
Total Public MALT Debt                       6,791                        100.0                      8,088                      100.0
1/ Public M+LT includes only loans to the Treasury.
July 31, 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX I I
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amount less    Undis-
Loan No.   Year         Borrower              Purpose          Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
Fully disbursed loans                                             481.0
1330       1977         SEGBA, S.A.           Power               115.0         38.8
1384       1977         Argentina             Highways            104.7         64.7
1463       1978         Banco Nacional        Industrial
de Desarrollo         Credit            100.0         31.8
1521       1978         Argentina             Grain Storage       105.0        102.5
1677       1979         Ferrocarriles         Railways
Argentinos S.A.                           96.0         96.0
1761       1979         Argentina             Yacyreta Power      210.0        210.0
1880       1980         Yacimientos
Petroliferos        Oil and Gas
Fiscales              Engineering        27.0         10.9
1905       1980         Argentina             Vocational
Training           58.0         58.0
S-020      1980         Argentina             Coal Exploration    10.0          10.0
2031       1981         Banco Nacional        Oil and Gas
de Desarrollo 1/      Credit             100.0       100.0
2032       1981         Yacimiento Petro-   Refinery
liferos Fiscales 1/  Conversion         200.0        200.0
Total                                               1,606.7
Of which has been repaid                              224.2
1,382.5
Amount sold                       12.8
Of which has been repaid          11.3                   1.5
Total now held by Bank                              1,381.0
Total undisbursed                                                  922.7
1/   Signed on October 2, 1981.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                   Amount in US$ million
Year        Obligor               Type of Business       Loans       Equity   Total
(US$ million)
1960    Acindar Industria            Steel Products         3.7        -        3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960    Papelera Rio Parana, S.A. Pulp and Paper            3.0        -        3.0
1961    Fabrica Argentina de        Automotive              1.5        -        1.5
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.        Transmission
1962    PASA, Petroquimica          Petrochemicals          3.0         -       3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/
1972   Celulosa Argentina, S.A.  Pulp and Paper           12.5        -       12.5
1969/
1975   Dalmine Siderca, S.A.        Steel Products        17.0        -       17.0
1969    Editorial Codex, S.A.       Printing and           5.0        2.0       7.0
Publishing
1971/
1973   Calera Avellaneda, S.A.   Cement                    5.5         -       5.5
1977    Alpargatas S.A.I.C.         Textiles & Fibers    7.0            -       7.0
1977    Soyex S.A.                   Soybean Processing   9.0           -       9.0
Plant
1978    Massuh, S.A.                Pulp and paper         8.0         -        8.0
1978/
1982   Juan Minetti, S.A.           Cement and
Construction
materials             74.0         -      74.0
1978/
1982   Ipako-Industrias             Chemicals and
Petroquimicas               Petrochemicals
Argentinas S.A.                                   20.0         -       20.0
1979    Alpesca S.A.                 Fisheries              5.2       0.5       5.7
Total Gross Commitments                          174.4        2.5    176.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                             99.5         2.0    101.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                 74.9        0.5      75.4
Total Undisbursed                                 44.8          -      44.8



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of September 1, 1981)
Loan 1330-AR   Electric Transmission and Distribution Program, US$115.0
million loan of November 1, 1976; Effective Date: January 10,
1977, Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Mainly because of budgetary constraints on the funding of local
cost requirements during 1978 and 1979, the overall execution of the project
has been delayed by about 20 months. This delay, however, does not signifi-
cantly affect the economic viability of the project. The project is proceed-
ing according to a revised schedule prepared in March 1980.
Loan 1384-AR   Fourth Highway Project; US$105.0 million loan of May 16, 1977;
Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
After a delay of about 2 years because of the Government's
efforts in 1978 and 1979 to reduce public expenditures, the civil works
component is in full execution. All 48 civil works contracts have been
tendered and all awards have been approved by the Bank. About 20% of the
works have been completed and up to 60% are expected to be finished by
March 1982. Other project components are being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan 1463-AR   Industrial Credit Project; US$100.0 million loan of September
23, 1977; Effective Date: November 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The funds available for investment subprojects are committed;
the remaining funds are expected to be committed by the end of 1981. About
one third of the loan has been disbursed and disbursements should be completed
by mid-1982, about six months beyond the date originally forecast.
Loan 1521-AR   Grain Storage Project; US$105.0 million loan of June 29, 1978,
Effective Date: November 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The Government has decided that the Grain Storage Project
should be redesigned to provide a line of credit to the private sector through
the Banco de la Nacion or another designated commercial bank for: (a) construc-
tion of new grain storage facilities; and (b) expansion and modernization
of existing facilities. The Grain Board prepared a proposal to discuss with
Banco de la Nacion and the Argentine Railways. The Government also reviewed
the proposals and recently presented them to the Bank for discussion.



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1677-AR   Second Railway Project, US$96.0 million of November 8, 1979;
Effective Date: May 6, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is about one year behind schedule; it is now being
implemented in accordance with the revised investment plan agreed by the Bank
and the Government date. Orders for US$48 million of Bank financed equipment
have been placed; orders for another US$25 million are expected to be placed
within the next month. Progress in line closures, rationalization of services,
staff reductions and operating improvements are in line with or above appraisal
targets. Financial targets have not been met, mainly because of low agricultural
traffic following unusually adverse weather condition in 1980.
Loan 1761-AR   Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project; US$210.0 million loan of
November 6, 1979; Effective Date:  July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Project execution is proceeding about 12 months behind
schedule mainly because of delays in the evaluation of bids.
Loan 1880-AR  01 and Gas Engineering Project; US$27.0 million loan of
October 3, 1980; Effective Date: December 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is satisfactory with initial work
having commenced on all the major components. Contracts have been awarded
for auditing of reserves and conducting seismic surveys, and proposals are
being prepared for carrying out the gas optimization study.
Loan 1905-AR   Vocational Training and Technical Education Project;
US$58.0 million loan of October 2, 1981; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The loan was recently signed following resolution of budget
issues between the Ministries of Education and Economy. In the meantime,
a project management team has moved efficiently to put into place the mecha-
nisms required for project implementation.
Loan S-020-AR Coal Exploration Project; US$10.0 million loan of May 13, 1981
not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Project implementation is underway and bids have been received
for consultant services and drilling equipment. Contracts are expected to
be awarded by December 1981.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
ARGENTINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            5 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:            BANADE/INTI
(c)  First presentation to Bank:               September 1980
(d)  First mission to prepare the project:   November 1980
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:           February 1981
(f)  Completion of negotiations:               September 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:            February 1982
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   The Government has given assurances that:
(a) it will complete by June 30, 1982, a comprehensive industrial
sector profile which will include an analysis of effective
protection of Argentine industries; furnish the Bank the
results of the effective protection study and consult with the
Bank on its future course of action with regard to industrial
sector policies (para. 38);
(b) it will provide the Bank, as a condition of effectiveness
of the Loan, satisfactory terms of reference for the
analysis of effective protection, and assign qualified
personnel to undertake it (para. 38); and
(c) BANADE will be required to take such measures as may be nec-
essary to maintain its equity in real terms (para. 60).
2.   BANADE has given assurances that:
(a) it will prepare a comprehensive Manpower Development Plan by
June 30, 1982 and carry out the Management Control and Infor-
mation System according to an action plan satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 56);



- 33 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) it will enter into an agreement with INTI establishing its
relationship in connection with the energy conservation
program (para. 65);
(c) Bank loan funds for any one subproject will be limited to
US$7 million if no other external financing is used. Subloans
with Bank funds could be as high as US$12 million, provided
that amounts over US$7 million are matched by equal amounts
of external financing (para. 69); and
(d) the proceeds of the loan will be onlent either in pooled
currencies at the same rate as the Bank loan with a spread
of 2.5% to cover administrative costs, or in dollars with an
additional fee of 2.5% to cover the cross currency risk
(para. 69).
3.   The free limit will be set at US$2.5 million, except that BANADE
will submit for the Bank's approval the first two energy conser-
vation subprojects and the first two subprojects from any
provincial bank; and where there has been a change in effective
protection for the product of a proposed subproject, the free
limit will be reduced to US$500,000 (para. 70).
4.   The Bank will permit BANADE to adjust maturities of subloans in
connection with external loans for the same subprojects (para. 71).






ANNEX Bill
-.                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD-12432R
1   , -g . L   g V  V5 -5' ii   ;                  wi.        }                                   5t     ER1077
$   l$T H                          , 
AMERICA C/A.                                   Bidroo, 4
RIARIA   AY 
(                         I~~~~~~~ 
I                                       /n  -i -'           - J n\[(j)A   
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:::  '  _   .    -  ArAttAR</                  }    'tu~~C H       ' X GOrrdJiitx
R 10   N EGRO    IN~Ete1
1 r DELk I\/~~~~~~~R                               O 1         1ACORRIENTE
RIOJ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~O
S~~~JANIO   UiY 
OOMODORO       DOB
t   )       5                  / PAM A<>  405A                 B ENENDOZ  ft
L,             --        RIVA DAVE . QN l AR lAtA
-                                                                    -. . Prir *roueque
SAKIAG NlpL   <                                                            coRio'N       O ~ <  
Z.         ,        Fi Roy                                       /__-__  Paved or            Aroad
- f' 'F'V I  < l     s >?,nadX                      o~~~~Eath  oad
.   9   ?    <   \  '                   XWSON               XSAN RAF
t' t.   ,ii  %   Fitz rort~~~~~~~ Principa  arpords
,$  >  i.ifi    C R U Z  \ / ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~_____ Provincial bounrdories
5;g0,4  /    \    ___   /tl Szb.Jo                    ---  fnf~~~~~loercauioval boundaries
tg ix    9* R70 GALLEG05    ~ ~~~?J<,>>llLA0 OOALVIoOSl5
Vi eg.s ~    ?,od i vol
Thov,pO.,a 5ttr rreg0redb rC               *TIERRA DEL
Wh or06vvfoL o dtvdLf,     [,                    F It7- EGO                    , 200           500       r600          800
roh de r,.orran itoedaodt Or  No.           /  f -RfILOMEtLRS
iatdvme,rl tdidf Go th sOe otfAo rf                                                                                      09o25 00 40
em'OOO, oroyndrl#sPth rnd5na             so                                                      It5
Oreooeetbqoe of eoovvvo,odoo
50~~~~~~~~          75                                     4W                                     2W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~je.



