OFFOA   LOANNUMBER 2063 AR
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Industrial Credit Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND IEVELOPMENT
Dated.      7, 1982


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   /                  <k  , 1982, between THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
and carry out Part B.1 of the Project described in Section 3.01
(a) of the Loan Agreement, all as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower, and to carry out Part
B.1 of the Project;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It-is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign e'change held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made


﻿- 3 -
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor undertakes to require the Bor-
rower to take all such measures as may be necessary or advisable
to maintain the Borrower's equity in real terms.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor, through its Ministry of Indus-
try and Mining, shall cause INTI:
(a)  to enter into the contractual arrangements with BANADE
referred to in Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement;
(b)   to perform all its obligations under such contractual
arrangements in a timely and efficient manner; and
(c)  to dEvelop and carry out an action plan aimed at pro-
moting energy conservation in Argentina's industrial sector.
Section 3.04. (a) Not later than knamf      1984, the Guaran-
tor shall carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, the study included under Part B.1 of the Project described
in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement; and
(b) promptly upon its completion, the Guarantor shall fur-
nish to the Bank the results of such study and exchange views


﻿-4-
with the Bank on its future course of action with regard to
industrial sector policies.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
oection 4.01. The Ministro de Economia of the Guarantor
is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Economfa
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA                     121952 AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By/6AL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By     /            A       (    '/'   i''
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this     tk c  day of  '-orL, 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


