GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
/ 573~
5 A'
-,'-Ozone Depleting, Sbstane                  -haeOut Project
Su  s   nc    Pht
!2 ,'                              - , 7-,~$  
--- - -oland-~ ,-- ---                 X       - -               E
-                                       S.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Project Document
Feb-ury-I ,997,              -       
"THE,WORLDBAK  .
U     
.~ TH WOL BANK,                    ) 



GEF Documentation
The Global Environmeht Facility (GEF) assists developi,ng countries-to protect -
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of-international waters,
destruction of biodivefsity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme,
and'the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-.
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
Global Environment Division
Envirohment Department
World Bank /
1818 H Street, NW
- Washington,.DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No.15737 - PL
Poland
Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-Out Project
Project Document
February 1997
Energy, Environment and Transport Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
2.697 Polish Zloty = US$1.00 (1996)
2.927 Polish Zloty = US$1.00 (1997, January)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCG           Bank Consulting Guidelines
CEE           Central and Eastern Europe
CFC           Chlorofluorocarbon
CP            Prudent Commercial Practices
DC            Direct Contracting
FA            Financial Agent
GEF           Global Environment Facility
GET           Global Environment Trust Fund
GOP           Government of Poland
HCFC          Hydrochlorofluorocarbon
HFC           Hydrofluorocarbon
IA           Implementing Agent
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           Industrial Development Agency of Poland
IS           International Shopping Procedures
LIB           Limited International Bidding
MFMP          Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol
MOE           Ministry of Economy (since January 1, 1997)
MOEPNRF    Ministry for Environmental Protection, Natural Resources, and Forestry
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOIT          Ministry of Industry and Trade (until December 31, 1996)
MP            Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer
NBF           Not Bank-Financed
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NIF           National Investment Fund
NS            National Shopping Procedures
OD            Operational Directive
ODP           Ozone Depleting Potential
ODS           Ozone Depleting Substances
OLPU          Ozone Layer Protection Unit
OORG          Ozone Operations Resource Group
PAA           Project Administration Agreement
PE            Participating Enterprise
PIM           Project Implementation Manual
PPL           Polish Procurement Law
SDR           Special Drawing Right
SFSH          State Fire Service Headquarters
SO            System Operator
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
STAP          Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNEP          United Nations Environment Program
US$           United States Dollar
USEPA         United States Environmental Protection Agency
3 R           Recovery, Reclamation, and Recycling
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



POLAND - OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PHASE-OUT PROJECT
I                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I:                                  PROJECT SUMMARY
Grant and Project Summary ...................................................                    i
Table 1 Summary of Sub-Project Data and Costs             ................................... ii
I. Introduction.                                                                                 1
II. ODS Sector Background.                                                                      2
III. Rationale for GEF Funding.                                                                 2
IV. Project Objectives.                                                                         3
V.   Project Eligibility and Determination of Sub-Project Incremental Costs.                     3
VI. Project Description, Costs and Financing.                                                   4
VII. Project Implementation Arrangements ..................................................      8
VIII. Project Benefits ..................................................                       10
IX.  Project Risks and Mitigation Measures ..................................................   11
X.   Regulatory Framework ..................................................                    12
XI.  Environmental Assessments ..................................................               12
XII. Lessons from Previous Bank Experience and Technical Review .................................. 13
XIII. Agreements and Actions ..................................................                 13
Schedule A: Project Costs and Financing Plan
Schedule B: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements and Reporting
Schedule C: Time Table of Key Project Processing Events
Schedule D: Status of Bank Group Operations in Poland
Schedule E: Poland at a Glance
PART II:                                 TECHNICAL ANNEX
Annex I: Sub-Project Summaries
Annex II: Project Implementation Schedule and Supervision Plan
IBRD Map 28132
This Report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited Poland in April/May 1996,
comprising Helmut Schreiber (Task Manager), Christian Duvigneau (Pr. Operations Officer), Donald
Rhatigan (Consultant), Barry Schaeffer (Consultant), Mr. Geno Nardini (Consultant), and Mr. Subramian
(Consultant). The Report was issued by the Energy, Environment and Transport Division (Henk Busz,
Acting Chief) of the Central Europe Department (Hans J. Apitz, Acting Director).
Vice President:                          Johannes Linn
Director:                                Hans J. Apitz, Acting
Division Chief/Manager:                  Henk Busz, Acting
Staff Member:                            Helmut Schreiber






PART I: Project Summary






POLAND
ODS Phase-Out PROJECT
Grant and Project Surmnary
Recipient:                        Republic of Poland
Beneficiaries:                    Ministry of Economy (MOE) (formerly Ministry of Industry
and Trade (MOIT)) and Sub-Project Beneficiaries
Total Project Cost:               US$20.2 million
GEF Grant Amount:                 US$6.2 million equivalent
Terms:                            Grant
Financing Plan:
Source      Local   Foreign    Total
(US$ Million)
GEF Grant   1.107   5.107       6.214
Participating
Enterprises   4.415   9.538    13.953
TOTAL       5.522   14.645     20.167
Economic Rate of Return:          Not calculated. Overall cost effectiveness
of grant is US$5.90/kg/yr of ODS emissions
eliminated.
Appraisal Report:                 Not applicable. Technical Annexes are
attached (Part II).
Map:                              IBRD 28 132
Project ID Number:                PL/GE/35081
i



TABLE 1: POLAND ODS PHASE-OUT PROJECT: SUMMARY OF SUB-PROJECT DATA AND COSTS (000'S US$)
Sub-Project /                                Sub-Project             Annual ODP          Cost           Total       Incremental      Eligible        Enterprise     Proposed
Enterprises          Sector            Description / Objective        Phase-out     Effectiveness    Sub-Project      Cost        Retroactive       Financing        GEF
(tlyr.)      (USSlkglyr.)       Cost                       Financing     Requirement(d)      Grant
1. Polar            Domestic          Conversion from CFC-l 1/12 to
(Wroclaw)           Refrigeration      cyclopentane/HFC- 134a as            200             2.65           4,012          2,907           529             3,483           529
foaming /cooling agent         .                                                                            .
2. Zamex (a)        Domestic           Foaming line conversion from          75             10.56          1,100           792                             308            792
(Zagan)             Refrigeration     CFC-l I to cyclopentane                            (threshold)
3. Inzynieria (a)   Insulated         Factory conversion from CFC-1 1        19             7.83            195            195             -               46             149
(Warsaw)            Pipes              to carbon diaxide/water                           (threshold)
4. Metalplast (b)   Insulation         Conversion from CFC-I I to n-        300             1.60           7,016          2,666          481             6,535            481
(Obomiki)           Panels            pentane blowing agent
5. Polfa S.A.       Pharmaceutical    Conversion from CFC-11/12 to          320             2.50           1,237          1,000            -              437             800
(Warsaw)                               hydrocarbon propellant         .
6. EDA S.A.,        Refrigerator       Conversion from CFC-12 to HFC-      Indirect         NA             3,397          1,700                           1,697          1,700
(Poniatowa)         Compressors        134a compressors                     (150)                           .
7. PROZON           Refrigeration     Establishment of nationwide 3 R       140             7.01           2,420           982                            1,438           982
(Warsaw)            Servicing         network
8. State Fire Service   Training      Training on non-halon fire          Indirect          NA              120            III                             9              111
Headquarters                          protection
(Warsaw)                                                                                                             .
9. IDA and OLPU     Govemment          Institutional strengthening for ODS  Indirect        NA               75            75              -               -              75
(IDA/OLPU)        project implementation         .
SUB-TOTALS                                                                                                 19,572        10,428          1,010           13,953          5,619
Contingency (12%
of non-retroactive                                                                                          520                                                           520
GEF  Grants)
Financial Agency
Fee (1.25%)                                                                                                  75                                                           75
TOTALS                                                                      1,054          5.90 (c)       20,167         10,428          1,010           13,953          6,214
DIRECT
(a) Grant amount per cost effectiveness threshold.
(b) 34% Polish ownership.
(c) Cost effectiveness basis: Total Grant/Total ODP (Ozone Depleting Potential).
(d) Enterprise Financial Requirement equals Total Sub-Project Cost less Proposed GEF Grant.



POLAND
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES (ODS) PHASE-OUT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    The Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer (1985) and the Montreal
Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (1987) are international agreements which
call for the phase-out of substances that deplete the stratospheric ozone layer. Poland ratified the
Montreal Protocol on July 13, 1990, and became a party to the Protocol on October 11, 1990.
Poland ratified the Copenhagen and London Amendments to the Protocol in 1996.
2.    Poland has been classified as a non-Article 5 country under the Montreal Protocol, and must
therefore have eliminated controlled ozone-depleting substances (ODS) by January 1, 1996, except
CFCs for medicinal aerosol use, for which the Government of Poland (GOP) requested and was
granted a one-year waiver. Having been designated a non-Article 5 country, Poland is not eligible
for financial assistance from the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal
Protocol. It is however eligible for Global Environment Facility (GEF) financing and the
Government of Poland (GOP) has requested the support of the IBRD, as one of the implementing
agencies of the GEF, in preparing and implementing a Project for the phase-out of ODS. The GEF
will finance eligible incremental costs and eligible expenditures consistent with Montreal Protocol
criteria and procedures and as superseded by the GEF operational strategy for ODS.
3.    Poland has been actively planning its ODS phase-out strategy since 1992, when a first draft
Country Program for ODS Phase-Out was prepared with the support of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) and the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP). Due to rapid changes thereafter in the structure of ODS consumption in Poland, revised
requirements of the Montreal Protocol due to the London and Copenhagen Amendments, and the
decisions of Parties in 1993 and 1994, the GOP decided to develop a revised Country Program.
This revised and updated Country Program, prepared by the Ozone Layer Protection Unit (OLPU)
with the support of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management
(NFEP) and the UNDP, was presented to, and cleared by the Bank's ENVGC Division in 1995.
Keystones of the government's strategy under the Program are (i) strengthening institutions
implementing ODS phase-out; (ii) restricting and controlling ODS imports; (iii) supporting
enterprises in their efforts to phase out ODS-using technology and (iv) monitoring, controlling and
taxing ODS emissions. The activities proposed for funding under this Project are among those
priorities identified in the Country Program.



-2-
II. ODS SECTOR BACKGROUND
4.    All controlled substances consumed in Poland, except for carbon tetrachloride, are
imported, mainly from the European Union and Russia. The use of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs)
has been widespread in Poland as refrigerants and foaming agents in domestic and commercial
refrigeration, aerosol propellants, foaming agents for rigid polyurethane insulation for district heat
piping, refrigerators and other applications. There has been less use of ODS than in other countries
as a solvent and metal cleaner, in the electronics and metal working industries. The non-ODS
trichloroethylene, a rather toxic substance, was used as the solvent and cleaner of choice for many
applications. Controlled halons have also been widely used for fire prevention systems and
extinguishers.
5.   In advance of preparation and approval of the Country Program by the GEF, and in
response to both Montreal Protocol mandated phase-out schedules and export restrictions, measures
to phase out the use of controlled substances have already taken place, including enterprise
investments in non-ODS substitute technology, taxation of ODS emissions, restricting and
controlling ODS imports, and strengthening of the institutions implementing the ODS phase-out.
6.    As a result of these actions, the total consumption of CFCs in Poland fell from 6,710 t in
1986 to 2,615 t in 1993, and 1,916 t in 1994. Since 1994, a large part of the Polish ODS using
industries have switched to alternative technologies. Virtually no CFCs are presently exported in
finished products. Based on 1994 consumption estimates developed by the Ozone Layer Protection
Unit (OLPU), 47.7% of ODS was used for refrigeration (including foam insulation), 32.4% for
aerosols, 10.8% for foams, 1.9% for solvent cleaning, and 7.2% for other uses. The State Fire
Service also estimates that a stock of approximately 200 t of Halon 1301 (fixed systems) and 200 t
of Halon 1211 (portable extinguishers) is present in Poland.
III. RATIONALE FOR GEF FUNDING
7.    The Project meets one of the four major objectives of the GEF - protection of the ozone
layer. The Government of Poland has signed the Montreal Protocol and ratified the London and
Copenhagen Amendments, and has demonstrated its commitment to ODS phase-out through the
preparation of a Country Program, and the above mentioned measures which have already resulted
in significantly decreased ODS consumption. Poland, however, as a non-Article 5 country is
ineligible to receive financing from the Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund. Consequently, Poland
and most economies in transition have been declared eligible to use GEF funding to finance
investments in ODS phase-out technology.
8.    The Project is an integral component of the Poland ODS phase-out program, some elements
of which would not be implemented in timely fashion, or at all, without GEF support. The
proposed Project is consistent with the Implementation Guidelines and Criteria established by the
Executive Committee of the Montreal Protocol for which the Bank is an implementing agency. The
Project has been developed taking into account the ODS phase-out requirements identified in the
Poland Country Program of 1995, and the Project Eligibility Criteria Guidelines set forth by the



-3-
Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol as adapted by the GEF in its
Operational Strategy. The overall cost effectiveness based on a Grant of US$6.2 million is
US$5.90/kg/yr ODP (Ozone-Depleting-Potential). All Sub-Grants are within the cost effectiveness
threshold limits for their particular applications.
IV. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.    The objective of the Project is to assist Poland in carrying out its Country Program for ODS
phase-out as required by the Montreal Protocol and its amendments. Specifically this Project will
assist Poland to:
a.    support the phase-out of the consumption of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) through
adoption of proven, cost-effective CFC-free technologies;
b.    support establishment of a national network for recovery/reclamation/recycling (3
R) of refrigerants (CFC- 12 and CFC- 11); and
c.   improve the capacity of the new Ministry of Economy (MOE) (former Ministry of
Industry and Trade (MOIT)) to manage and oversee the phase-out of ODS in Poland
through institutional strengthening.
10.   Project implementation will contribute to direct phase-out of 914 t/yr ODP consumption, or
47% of the 1994 total. An additional 140 t/yr consumption will be reduced through a national
recovery, reclamation and recycle (3 R) scheme in the domestic and commercial refrigeration
service sector, while a refrigerator compressor factory conversion to non-ODS technology will
facilitate indirect phase-out of an additional 150 t annually of CFC-12.
V. PROJECT ELIGIBILITY AND DETERMINATION OF SUB-PROJECT
INCREMENTAL COSTS
11.   The specific eligibility criteria developed for projects to be funded by the Multilateral Fund
for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol (MFMP) are also largely used for all GEF-funded
ODS phase-out projects. Incremental costs, as defined by the Parties to the Montreal Protocol, are
the capital and operating costs associated with conversion to, and operation of, the non-ODS
substitute technology over and above those incurred (including normal replacement investment) by
a Participating Enterprise (PE) in the case of continued operation of the ODS consuming process or
operation whose phase-out is being mandated by the Montreal Protocol. The investment Sub-
Projects proposed in this Project meet the project eligibility criteria established by the Parties to the
Montreal Protocol, and were subject to the technical review and approval of the Ozone Operations
Resource Group (OORG) which reviews all sub-projects financed by the GEF and the Montreal
Protocol.
12.   The basis for determination of the proposed GEF Grant amounts is consistent with both the
MPMF eligibility criteria and the GEF Operational Strategy for ODS Phase-out Operations
approved by the GEF Council at its October 1995 Meeting, including adjustments for retroactive
financing, export production, and foreign ownership. Enterprise decisions concerning choice of
substitute technology were based upon analyses of commercially available technologies, prevailing



-4 -
local market conditions and export potential. Incremental operating costs are not included in any of
the Sub-Project Grant amounts.
13.   Most Sub-Projects were identified in Poland's Country Program as phase-out priority. All
Sub-Projects (Numbers 1 to 8), except one (Sub-Project 5: POLFA S.A.), have already received
final approval from the Bank's Ozone Operations Resource Group (OORG) for technical
soundness, eligibility of incremental costs, and acceptable environmental mitigation measures. The
'OLFA S.A. Sub-Project 5 has been resubmitted after required modifications and has preliminarily
approved.
VI. PROJECT DESCRIPTION, COSTS AND FINANCING
14.   The Project consists of three components: (a) a technology conversion investment
component (six Sub-Projects), which targets priority, cost effective ODS phase-out activities in the
refrigeration, foam and aerosol sectors; (b) a recovery, reclamation and recycling (3 R) component
(one Sub-Project); and (c) an institutional strengthening and training component (two Sub-
Components). Table 1: Summary of Sub-Project Data and Costs, lists key phase-out and cost data
for all Project components in tabular fonn. Sub-Project summaries are attached in the Part II.
Technical Annex. Comprehensive Sub-Project descriptions are provided in the Sub-Project
Documents available in the Project File. Brief outline descriptions of each Sub-Project follow.
Technology Conversion and Investment Compoen
15.   Sub-Project 1.  POLAR  (WROCLAW):    Conversion from   CFC-11/12 to
Cyclopentane/134a at POLAR's Refrigerator Factory and Establishment of CFC-12 Recycle
Network. ZZSD POLAR produces refrigerators and washing machines (500,000 refrigerators and
300,000 washing machines in 1995). The Sub-Project consists of three parts: (i) substitution of
CFC-12 refrigerant with HFC-134a in two domestic refrigerators production lines; (ii) substitution
of CFC- 11 foaming agent with cyclopentane in the production of cabinets and doors for domestic
refrigerating equipment; and (iii) development of a CFC-12 freon recycling network within
POLAR's 190 service shops. Total Sub-Project cost is US$4.0 million. The total incremental cost
of the Sub-Project is US$2.9 million. After deduction of 11% of incremental costs from (i) and (ii)
(11% of production exported to Western Europe), and adjusting all components for retroactive
expenditures (implementation took place during 1993/95) the proposed GEF Sub-Grant amount is
US$529,000. Implementation will result in the elimination of annual consumption of 50 t of CFC-
12 and 150tofCFC-11.
16.   Sub-Project 2. ZAMEX (ZAGAN): Conversion from CFC- 11 to Cyclopentane Foaming
Line for Household Freezers. ZAMEX manufactures domestic, commercial and medical supply
storage freezers. The objective of the Sub-Project is to convert from use of CFC-1 1 to cyclopentane
foaming agent in the production of the rigid polyurethane foam freezer insulation. The use of
cyclopentane is well established in this sub-sector; the Sub-Project aims at replacing the current
three injection machines with two injection machines which are suitable for use with cyclopentane.
Implementation, which commenced in November 1995, is now ongoing. The total cost of this



-5 -
Sub-Project is US$1.1 million. Based on the cost effectiveness threshold for flammable foaming
agents for rigid polyurethene applications (US$10.56/kg ODP eliminatedlyr), the incremental cost
amount eligible for a GEF Sub-Grant is US$792,000. Implementation will eliminate annual
consumption of 75 t of CFC- 11. CFC- 12 refrigerant phase-out, previously implemented, is outside
the scope of the Sub-Project.
17.   Sub-Project 3. INZYNIERIA (WARSAW): Elimination of CFC-1 1 Foamning Agent in
the Production of Rigid Polvurethane Pipe Insulation. INZYNIERIA produces a range of molded
rigid polyurethane foam items, including insulated pipe liners. The objective of this Sub-Project is
to convert from CFC- 11 to water/CO2 technology, by installing a new high-pressure foam blowing
machine and modifying molds. The total Sub-Project cost is US$195,000. The Sub-Project will
phase out 19 t/yr of CFC- 11 (based on 1995 consumption level). Until Sub-Project implementation
is complete, the firm will be foaming with CFC- 11 stockpiled prior to Poland's ODS phase-out
deadline. The GEF Sub-Grant request, based on a cost effectiveness threshold of US$7.83/kg/yr
for rigid, non-flammable polyurethane applications, is US$149,000.
18.   Sub-Project 4. METALPLAST (OBORNIKI): Phase-out of CFC-1 1 Blowing Agent in
the Production of Thermal Insulation Panels. METALPLAST manufactures steel-faced sandwich
panels on two continuous laminator links. 300 tons of CFC-1 1 were used in the production of
1,300 t of foam in 1994. The Sub-Project objective is to replace CFC- 11 with n-pentane foaming
agent. The Sub-Project includes the replacement of foaming Line 1 and retrofitting of Line 2,
including safety equipment to permit foaming with flammable n-pentane. The total cost of the Sub-
Project is US$7.0 million; the eligible incremental cost, at 34.3% Polish ownership, is US$2.7
million. After adjustment for retroactive expenditures (implementation started during 1995), the
requested GEF Sub-Grant amount is US$481,000. The result of the Sub-Project will be the annual
phase-out of 300 t of ODP-weighted consumption of CFC- 11.
19.   Sub-Project 5. POLFA S. A. (WARSAW): Conversion from CFC-1 1 and CFC-12 to
Hydrocarbon-Based Pharmaceutical Propellant. In 1995 about 220 t of CFC- 11 and 100 t of CFC-
12 were used by POLFA (Warsaw) as a propellant in the manufacture of dermatologic antibiotic
and corticoid drugs in aerosol form. POLFA (Warsaw) is one of the few producers of those
medications in aerosol form. Most of the European and North American producers use cream
preparations. Poland has been granted a one year phase-out extension to December 31, 1996 for
CFC phase-out in medicinal aerosols, after which the importation of CFCs for this purpose for
POLFA Warsaw will be prohibited. The Sub-Project objective is to phase out annual consumption
of 320 t ODP by refitting the pharmaceutical plant filling the aerosol antibiotics and corticoids to
permit use of a non-ODS propellant mix. The initial capital expenditure estimate of US$1 million,
which would be fully incremental, was based upon use of HFC- 1 34a as the substitute propellant. In
light of the OORG review, which did not approve HFC-134a for this application due to its high cost
and serious global warming implications, POLFA (Warsaw) has developed an alternative proposal
based on hydrocarbon propellants. The revised estimated total cost is US$1.2 million. A GEF Sub-
Grant amount of US$ 800,000, has been provisionally budgeted, pending an OORG evaluation of
the revised process design. The OORG review is now underway; approval by OORG needs to
be obtained prior to disbursement. Moreover, prior to disbursement the company would



-6 -
provide (a) evidence of feasibility of using the hydrocarbon-based emulsion in an aerosol, as a
result of tests; and (b) evidence that the Ministry of Health has provided the registration
approval for the product. The Sub-Grant Agreement for this Sub-Project would spell out
these conditions and call for their completion prior to disbursement.
20.   Sub-Project 6.  EDA S.A. (PONIATOWA):  Retooling of Domestic Refrigerator
Compressor Factory to Produce HFC-134a Compressors. EDA S.A. is a manufacturer of hermetic
compressors for domestic refrigerators, freezers and milk coolers (about 500,000 units annually).
Approximately 210t of CFC-12 was consumed by producers of household refrigerators and
freezers in 1994. The objective of this Sub-Project is to retrofit the production line to permit
production of compressors for use with HFC-1 34a instead of CFC- 12. Implementation will convert
a production line for 500,000 units annually, with an indirect reduction of 150 t of CFC- 12 per year.
The decision to produce HFC- 1 34a compressors rather than other non-ODS substitutes was dictated
by the requirements of its principal customer, POLAR (Wroclaw), which had previously opted for
HFC-134a refrigerant technology. The estimated eligible incremental cost of the Sub-Project of
US$1.7 million, which is proposed for full GEF financing, reflects deductions from the total
estimated Sub-Project cost of US$3.4 million. The remainder, US$1.7 million, though an integral
part of the investment program, was assessed to contribute to plant modernization, rather than being
essential for the ODS phase-out technology conversion, and is therefore not an eligible incremental
cost.
Recovery, Reclaim, and Recycle (3 R) Component
21.   Sub-Project 7. PROZON (WARSAW): Establishment and Operation of a Nationwide
CFC-12 Recovery. Reclamation and Recycle Network. PROZON is a non-profit foundation for the
protection of the ozone layer which has been established by the two largest refrigerant gas
distribution companies, Termo Products Ltd. (Warsaw) and Gas Polska, a joint venture with Liquid
Carbonics (USA). PROZON will be responsible for implementing this Sub-Project which consists
of creating and operating a nationwide system for collection and processing of used refrigerants,
primarily CFC-12. It is proposed to eventually equip 1600 shops with recovery equipment, which
would be 30% self-financed, and 70% Sub-Grant financed. A central CFC reclaim center, and 17
collection/distribution depots would be established. A sub-component, budgeted at US$250,000, to
train refrigeration servicemen in CFC-12 conservation and HFC-134a services procedures, will be
carried out by the Refrigeration Center of Cracow (COCH). It is an essential element for
implementation and operation of the 3 R system. The total estimated Sub-Project cost is US$2.4
million; the total incremental cost, which would be fully financed by the GEF Sub-Grant, is
US$982,000. Remaining costs are proposed to be financed by PROZON equity (US$0.3 million);
EKOFUND (US$0.6 million); and participating service shops (US$0.5 million). The estimated
annual potential recovery is 140 t of ODS, primarily R-12. A pilot operation to encompass 150 to
200 service workshops and one reclaim center will be initiated and will operate for approximately 6
months. Operating data developed during this phase will be used to adjust Sub-Project operating
and financial parameters as required for the step-wise expansion to more shops. After the



-7-
completion of the pilot phase, the full Sub-Project scope would be reached in two more phases to be
reviewed and supervised by IDA/OLPU (para 23).
Institutional Strengthening Compone
22.   Sub-Project 8. Training Program for the Use of Non-Halon Alternatives for Fire
Protection. The objective of this Sub-Project is to organize and carry out two 3-day training
courses to train designers of fire protection systems, specialists in engineering supervision and fire
fighting engineers on alternatives to halon systems. A group of potential instructors for future
training courses will be selected from among the 60 participants. The Sub-Project will be
implemented by the State Fire Service Headquarters (SFSH) in collaboration with the Science and
Research Center for Fire Protection. It is proposed that four experts from the non-profit Halon
Alternatives Research Corp. (HARC USA) and two Polish experts will conduct the courses and
prepare a training manual. The two sessions are tentatively scheduled for April /May 1997. The
total estimated cost of the Sub-Project is US$120,400; a GEF Sub-Grant of US$111,000 is
requested to finance incremental costs to support the program.
23.   Sub-Component 9. Institutional Strengthening of IDA/OLPU. The objective of this Sub-
Component is to assist the Industrial Development Agency (IDA) of Poland and the Ozone Layer
Protection Unit (OLPU) to supervise Project-implementation. The IDA has been designated by the
Ministry of Economy (MOE), to whom it reports, as the financial agency (FA) for the Project. The
IDA will coordinate the implementation of the Project, oversee procurement and disbursement
compliance with Bank guidelines, and supervise Project activities according to the requirements of
the Bank and MOE. The IDA staff will be responsible for Project administration, supplemented, as
required, by technical, legal, and financial experts. As necessary, the OLPU will coordinate ODS
phase-out policy and help identify technical consultants to assist in project implementation
supervision, and provide support to facilitate cooperation among government institutions and the
consumers of ODS. The GEF funding request for this Sub-Component is US$75,000, consistent
with institutional strengthening support guidelines of the GEF Operational Strategy, and will cover
office equipment, and the cost of hiring consultants for supervision and review during
implementation of the investment Sub-Projects.
Project Costs and Financing
24.   The total Project cost is estimated at US$20.2 million, of which US$10.4 million is
incremental (Table 1 and Schedule A). Table 1 shows estimated Project costs and the proposed
fmancing plan. The total requested GEF Grant is US$6.2 million equivalent. The total Grant
would consist of US$5.6 million for Sub-Projects, up to US$75,000 as the proposed financial
agency fee (1.25% of disbursement for Sub-Projects 1-8), and US$0.5 million as the contingency
arnount for the non-retroactive Sub-Grants (about 12%). Retroactive financing for two Sub-Projects
(US$1.0 million), and additional retroactive financing of up to US$0.2 million for other Sub-
Projects, amount together to less than 20% of the eligible incremental costs for these Sub-Projects,



-8 -
consistent with the GEF ODS Operational Strategy. The difference between the total cost and the
proposed GEF Sub-Grant for each Sub-Project will be financed by the enterprises through a
combination of equity and loans, with contributions for certain Sub-Projects from the Polish
EcoFund or the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management.
25.   Sub-Project Grant Amounts: The currently proposed GEF Sub-Grant amounts are listed
in Table 1. The total Project Grant amount of US$6.2 million and the retroactive Sub-Grant
amounts (POLAR, METALPLAST) are essentially final. Sub-Grant amounts for the remaining
Sub-Projects are estimates which have been reviewed during Project Appraisal. The proposed Sub-
Grant for POLFA could be subject to substantial revision due to the ongoing preparation of the
Sub-Project. Current estimates for remaining Sub-Projects should not be subject to major revision.
Final Sub-Grant amounts which will serve as the basis for the Sub-Grant Agreements will include a
contingency of about 12% for all except the two Sub-Projects for which retroactive expenditures
are being financed.
VII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
26.   The Ministry of Economy (MOE) will have overall responsibility for the implementation of
the Project. The Industrial Development Agency of Poland (IDA), a joint stock company owned
100% by the State Treasury under the jurisdiction of MOE, has been designated by the MOE as
the implementing agency directly responsible for Project execution. IDA will manage Project
implementation, including supervision of procurement and disbursement. IDA will also be the
designated Financial Agent (FA) for the Project. As necessary, the Ozone Layer Protection
Unit (OLPU) will coordinate ODS phase-out policy and help identify technical consultants to
assist in project implementation supervision, and provide support to facilitate cooperation among
government institutions and the consumers of ODS. The MOE will liaise with the Ministry for
Environmental Protection, Natural Resources, and Forestry (MOEPNRF) and other Ministries on
policy and industrial strategy issues.
27.  IDA's principal activity is to support the technical and financial restructuring of state
enterprises through investment operations, regional development support operations, liquidations,
and management training. It has been operating under commercial law since 1991. IDA was
selected by the former MOIT as the Project Financial Agent (FA) based upon its demonstrated
ability to administer and disburse Project funds and its familiarity with Bank procedures,
particularly procurement practices. IDA has administered technical assistance funding for the
Bank's Privatization and Restructuring Project (Loan 3342-POL), and is currently the FA for the
Enterprise and Financial Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) (Loan 3599-POL). IDA has also been, or is
currently the FA for four European Union (EU) Phare Program operations, which have executed
295 technical assistance contracts with a total value of US$30 million.
28.   Two IDA officials, who will be delegated part-time to the Project on an "as-required-basis",
will be responsible for Project administration. They will be supported by technical experts who
will be responsible for reviewing technical aspects of bid evaluations and Sub-Project



- 9 -
implementation. These experts will be identified by the Ozone Layer Protection Unit, and
contracted by IDA on a stand-by basis. Other consultants (legal, financial, etc.) will be contracted
by IDA according to Sub-Project needs.
29.   To define Project management responsibilities and establish FA operating procedures, a
draft Project Administration Agreement (PAA), acceptable to the Bank, which clearly spells out
the responsibilities of each organization, has been established between the MOE, representing the
GEF Grant Recipient, and IDA as the Financial Agent (FA). IDA's role as the entity responsible
for supervision of Sub-Project implementation, including procurement, and as the financial agent
(FA) responsible for administration and disbursement of Sub-Project funds has been formalized in
the draft PAA. Detailed definition of the responsibilities and duties of IDA and OLPU were
addressed during Project Appraisal. An acceptable draft PAA was submitted by IDA, discussed and
agreed during Project Appraisal.  Execution of the PAA will be a condition of Grant
effectiveness.
30.  IDA will be paid a fee of 1.25 percent (1.25%) on all disbursements for Sub-Projects 1 to 8.
In addition, a flat amount of US$20,000 will be budgeted for Project supervision, related travel and
lodging expenses of IDA staff and external technical consultants. An enterprise-prepared Sub-
Project Document, incorporating revisions agreed to during and subsequent to Sub-Project
appraisal, forms the basis of Sub-Grant Agreements between the IDA and the Participating
Enterprise, to be prepared for each Sub-Project. The Sub-Project Documents include a technical
description of the Sub-Project, total and incremental cost estimates, financial plan for non-GEF
funded Sub-Project costs, implementation plan, reporting provisions, procurement and
disbursement plans including a list of contract types and amounts to be wholly or partially funded,
environmental and worker safety assessments, environmental and safety mitigation and equipment
disposal plans, and any other relevant requested information. Sub-Project Implementation Plans,
focusing on the enterprise procurement plan and installation schedule were discussed with the
Participating Enterprises during appraisal and found to be acceptable except for POLFA, whose
implementation plan is still under development.  POLFA's acceptable final Sub-Project
Document will be a condition of disbursement. Two draft Sub-Grant Agreements were prepared
by IDA, discussed and tentatively agreed with the Appraisal Mission. Revised pro-forma draft
Sub-Grant Agreements were submitted by IDA since the Appraisal (Part II, Annex 2), and obtained
Bank no-objection. Signed Sub-Grant Agreements, acceptable to the Bank, will be conditions
of disbursement for each Sub-Project (except Sub-Project 9 for IDA-OLPU strengthening).
31.   Procurement and disbursement, as proposed in Schedule B, will be in accordance with
Bank policies and practices. Sub-Project expenditures incurred after October 3, 1994 (18 months
prior to Project presentation to the GEF Council) are el gible for retroactive financing, provided the
procurement procedures outlined in Schedule B are followed. Retroactive financing shall be
limited to no more than 20% of total Sub-Project expenditures financed by the GEF Grant, and to
no more than 20% of eligible incremental costs for individual Sub-Projects. It is expected that up
to US$1.2 million or up to 19% of the total GEF Grant will be disbursed for retroactive
expenditures. (US$1.0 million for Sub-Projects I and 4: POLAR & METALPLAST; up to US$0.2



- 10-
million for other Sub-Projects). A special account with a Polish Commercial Bank, acceptable to
the Bank, will be set up by IDA.
32.    The components of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) have been prepared and
agreed with the former MOIT, IDA and OLPU during the Appraisal. The completed PIM will
include the relevant Bank guidelines on procurement, disbursements, use of consultants, financial
reporting, auditing, sample bidding documents, and other Sub-Project-specific documents, as
already discussed with IDA staff. Instructions for procurement and disbursement (see Schedule B)
and Project Implementation Plan (& Sc hedule D) are part of the PIM which was made available
by the Bank to IDA in July 1996. A Project Launch Workshop is scheduled for May 1997.
33.   Monitoring and evaluation of the Sub-Projects will require that IDA prepare quarterly
reports to be submitted to the Bank for the duration of Project supervision. A standard format for
these quarterly supervision reports has been made available to IDA, and was explained and agreed
upon with IDA during negotiations. The quarterly reports will summarize issues related to
procurement, disbursement, technical aspects of Sub-Project implementation, accounting and
auditing information, environmental and safety issues, and any changes in the legal and regulatory
framework. Inputs for the quarterly report will be provided by IDA and the Participating
Enterprises. The quarterly reports will be reviewed by the Bank with IDA and beneficiaries as
required during supervision missions. The Project's completion date will be June 30, 1998; the
GEF-Grant's closing date will be December 31, 1998. The Project is expected to require 5
supervision missions (see ScheduleD).
VIII. PROJECT BENEFITS
34.   As a result of the Project, it is expected that a total of 914 t of CFC-11 and CFC-12,
equivalent to 47% of Poland's 1994 annual Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP) consumption will be
directly phased out. Another estimated 140 t annual consumption, primarily CFC-12, will be
reduced through recycling and servicing, while a compressor factory conversion to non-ODS
technology will facilitate indirect phase-out of an additional 150 t ODP annually. Thus, the Project
will contribute to global efforts to protect the ozone layer and benefit human health and the
environment. The Project will also enable export-oriented beneficiaries to maintain their export
markets by adjusting in a timely manner to non-ODS production as mandated by Montreal Protocol
ODS phase-out timetables in Western Europe and other non-Article 5 countries.
35.   The overall cost effectiveness of the Project, based upon GEF Grant total divided by total
direct ODS consumption eliminated, is US$5.90/kg/yr ODP eliminated, due to the preponderance
of CFC-11 foaming agent and a CFC-11/12 medicinal aerosol conversion to non-ODS
technologies.  The cost effectiveness of all individual Sub-Grants is lower than the cost
effectiveness threshold limits for these particular applications, which have been established by the
Multilateral Fund Executive Committee.



- 11 -
IX. PROJECT RISKS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
36.   Institutional: The risk associated with insufficient institutional attention to supervision
of Sub-Project implementation should be adequately addressed by the institutional strengthening of
IDA and the Ozone Layer Protection Unit (OLPU).   While each participating enterprise is
considered technically capable of managing installation of its funded Sub-Project, coordination
with IDA and OLPU will be essential to efficient procurement and disbursement. The MOE, in
close cooperation will MOEPNRF will be responsible for monitoring enterprise compliance with
ODS phase-out, and other environmental regulations.
37.   The National 3 R Network: Experience in national CFC recovery, reclamation and
recycling (3 R) programs is limited to only a few countries, although many such programs are
now under development. The limited experience to date indicates that: (a) a 3 R network requires an
adequate legal framework and a service sector financial incentive scheme to stimulate maximum
recovery of CFC-12; and (b) the amounts of CFC initially recovered are generally less than
anticipated. This outcome is owed not to deficient collection logistics, but rather to the continued
availability of CFCs, through either legal or clandestine channels, rendering ineffective even well
designed financial and economic incentives in the 3 R system purchase/resell-loop. The necessary
condition for a cost effective 3 R operation is that real scarcity of CFCs, as manifested by sharply
rising prices, exists. A further condition is that the logistics and financial incentive systems be well
designed. It is not yet clear how real price/availability patterns will evolve, as international
prohibition of ODS imports for the refrigeration sector, as mandated for all non-Article 5 countries
by the Montreal Protocol, only became effective on January 1, 1996. Poland's domestic regulatory
framework (para. 40) for ODS phase-out is intended to reinforce the internationally agreed controls.
38.   The above noted experiences of already initiated programs suggest that implementation of
the 3 R Sub-Project should commence on a reduced scale at first, beginning with the reclaim center
and perhaps two or three regional depots, and 150-200 service shops. In this manner, after a pilot
phase of 6-12 months, enough operational and financial experience should be available to permit
informed decisions on the nature and design of an expanded operation. The financial sustainability
of the 3 R scheme will be monitored closely in order to react to market conditions (price and
availability of CFCs) which will influence the short and medium term profitability of the operation.
During appraisal, PROZON agreed to phase its implementation into a Pilot Phase and two major
implementation phases. Establishment of a pilot phase operation plan for the National 3 R
Network (Sub-Project 7) will be a condition of disbursement for the Sub-Project 7 (3 R
Network).
39.   Enterprise Financial Soundness:  Based on financial information reviewed during
appraisal, each of the beneficiary enterprises, except possibly METALPLAST and EDA S.A., is in
sufficiently satisfactory financial condition to ensure that the enterprise is likely to remain
financially sustainable over the foreseeable future. METALPLAST privatized in 1995 and in the
process incurred a loss. The newly restructured company should perform well in 1996. EDA's
financial situation has been difficult, but is being addressed by National Investment Fund No2
(NIF2) since early 1996. EDA was part of the Government's mass privatization program, which is



- 12 -
being supported by the Bank (Privatization and Restructuring Loan 3342-POL). NIF2 became
EDA's majority shareholder in late 1995. Significant restructuring progress is underway. EDA's
former compressor division has been established as a joint stock company, 100% owned by the
newly formed EDA holding. The new joint stock company will implement Sub-Project 6. The
METALPLAST and EDA S.A. Sub-Grants will be disbursed subject to a satisfactory
assessment of the companies' performance at the end of 1996 and prospects, which would
demonstrate improvement of financial performance in terms of reduced losses and increased
cash flows.
X. REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
40.   Stratospheric Ozone Layer protection has been accorded high priority by the Government of
Poland as an important global environmental issue. The Government has responded to the
requirements of the Montreal Protocol throuigh a series of legislative, regulatory, and fiscal
measures. Among the principal measures taken were: (a) creation of the OLPU; (b) issuance of
regulations restricting importation of controlled substances via the "CFC Imports Permit;` (c)
legislation establishing taxation of controlled substances; and (d) banning importation and
production of non-medicinal aerosols using CFC propellants.
41.   Regulatory Framework for ODS in Poland: The existing regulatory framework concerning
ODS in Poland, additional to that imposed by the Montreal Protocol itself, is summarized in the
introduction to the 3-R Project Memorandum of Understanding Concerning GOP Supportive
Actions (Project File). PROZON's sunmmarized Sub-Project Proposal includes further proposals for
regulation, certification, and monitoring/control of participants in the 3-R Scheme, particularly to
minimize diversion of recovered refrigerant at the shop level to other clients' chillers, rather than
for sale to PROZON. Such problems appear to be occurring in 3-R schemes in other countries. The
Government representatives pointed out that appropriate legislation is under active preparation.
XI. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
42.   The Project has been given a "B" Environmental Classification by the Bank due to the
health and safety considerations associated with several Sub-Projects. Three of the Sub-Projects
involve conversion of foaming agent injection systems to the use of cyclopentane and n-pentane,
both of which are flammable. The POLFA Sub-Project will involve a conversion to hydrocarbon
aerosol propellants. The design of each of these Sub-Projects will have to take into account safe
design and operational practices for hazardous environments. The hydrocarbon foam injection
system vendors provide supervisor and operator safety training as part of the package price. The
other four Sub-Projects do not involve hazardous environments and only normal work place safety
and ventilation considerations are involved. An environmental and safety assessment, including
mitigation plans as required, is included in each Sub-Project Document and has been reviewed and
approved by the technical reviewers, with the exception of POLFA S.A., for which the hydrocarbon
propellant alternative is still under review.



- 13 -
43.   Each Sub-Project is subject to Bank environmental review procedure for Class B Sub-
Projects, including satisfactory environmental mitigation measures. The OORG approval of a
given Sub-Project includes approval by the reviewer of workers' health- and safety -, and
environmental impact mitigation measures deemed necessary for that particular Sub-Project. In
addition, the MOE will ensure that information on Polish safety standards and procedures will be
provided by suppliers, and that these standards and procedures will be applied to the use of new
substances by all participating enterprises. International health and safety standards will be
observed, with particular emphasis on the design, implementation, and operation of cyclopentane
and n-pentane circuits, storage facilities and application systems. Each Sub-Project will have to
comply with local environmental regulations, product permits (if any) and local health and
safety regulations. Appropriate certification will have to be obtained prior to disbursement.
Sub-Project supervision will include guidance to ensure that safety and environmental conditions in
Participating Enterprises are consistent with international practices for new technologies which will
be employed to phase out ODS. The Project provides substantial environmental benefits (para. 34).
XII. LESSONS FROM PREVIOUS BANK EXPERIENCE AND TECHNICAL REVIEW
44.   Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund-financed ODS Phase-out Projects with the Bank as
Trustee are currently being implemented or prepared in more than 20 nations under Article 5
(defined as national annual per capita ODS consumption of less than 300 g in 1986). GEF Trust
Fund financed ODS projects, in non-Article 5 countries are under preparation or implementation in
the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia, Bulgaria and other countries with economies in
transition. Experience indicates the need for flexibility and simplicity in the sub-project design and
financing mechanisms, well prepared sub-projects and implementation plans, and most importantly,
the need to strengthen local capacity during the preparation and implementation of sub-project
activities.
45.   The Project was reviewed by outside specialists selected from  a roaster prepared and
cleared by the GEF's Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP). These specialists are also
approved reviewers under the parallel Ozone Operations Resource Group (OORG) review system
established by the Bank to provide technical advice on technology selection under the Multilateral
Fund. Sub-Projects I through 8 have been reviewed by the OORG. All Sub-Projects, with the
exception of POLFA's, have been approved. This latter Sub-Project is currently being revised to
take the technical reviewers' comments into account.
XIII. AGREEMENTS AND ACTIONS
46.   Each of the Participating Enterprises (PE) was visited at the Sub-Project site by the
Appraisal Mission. All Sub-Projects were agreed in their final scope during and subsequent to the
Appraisal Mission, with the exception of POLFA, (Sub-Project 5, for which a review is still under
way).
47.   The following are conditions for grant effectiveness and disbursement:



- 14 -
(A)   Condition for Grant Effectiveness
48.   The following is a condition of GEF Grant Effectiveness:
Execution of the PAA which includes agreement between the Bank and IDA as to
disbursement, record keeping, and reporting procedures (para. 29 and Schedule B);
(B)   Conditions of Disbursement
49.   Conditions of disbursement for each individual Sub-Project will be:
(a)   Signing of a Sub-Grant Agreement (subject to prior Bank no objection) between
IDA and each of the Participating Enterprises responsible for the corresponding
Sub-Project (para. 30) including acceptable procurement arrangements (Schedule
B);
(b)   IDA verification that each of the participating enterprises has obtained necessary
permits and licenses for its Sub-Project, and meets local environmental-, health-,
and safety standards, and that adequate disposal plans for any discarded equipment
which could be reused for ODS applications are in place (para 43). (Note that
OORG approval comprises approval of satisfactory international environmental,
health and safety mitigation plans);
(c)   OORG approval of documentation for the pending Sub-Project of POLFA S.A.
(Sub-Project 5). Acceptable results of POLFA's testing of the hydrocarbon-based
aerosol and obtention of the registration approval from the Ministry of Health (para
19);
(d)   Establishment of a pilot phase operation plan and initial financial incentive system
for the National 3 R Network (Sub-Project 7) (para. 38);
(e)   Re METALPLAST and EDA S.A. Sub Projects: Satisfactory review of the
companies' financial situation (para. 39).



SCHEDULE A
POLAND ODS PHASE-OUT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLANS
Enterprise Financing                   Proposed GEF Grant              TOTAL
Sub-Project /        Sector           Sub-Project Description      Local Cost   Foreign Cost     Total        Local     Foreign Cost    Total    Sub-Project
Enterprises                                                                                                  Cost                                   Cost
1. POLAR   (a)     Domestic          Conversion from CFC-11/12 to       1,081         2,402        3,483 (a)      -            529         529         4,012
(Wroclaw)           Refrigeration    cyclopentane/HFC-134a as
foaming /cooling agent        l                                                                                            I
2. ZAMEX            Domestic         Foaming line conversion from        308             -           308          42           750          792        1,100
(Zagan)             Refrigeration    CFC-1 I to cyclopentane       l                                                                                            l
3. INZYNIERIA       Insulated        Factory conversion from CFC- I 1    46              -            46           -           149          149         195
(Warsaw)            Pipes            to carbon diaxide/water       l                                                                                            l
4. METALPLAST    Insulation          Conversion from CFC-I I to n-      1,945         4,590         6,535          -           481          481        7,016
(Obomiki)           Panels           pentane blowing agent         l                                         l
5. POLFA S.A.       Pharmaceutical    Conversion from CFC-11/12 to       200           237           437         150           650          800        1,237
(Warsaw)                             Non-ODS aerosol propellant    l                                                                                            I
6. EDA S.A., (b)    Refrigerator     Conversion from CFC-12 to HFC-      401          1,296        1,697 (b)     200          1,500        1,700       3,397
(Poniatowa)         Compressors      134a compressors              l                                                                                             l
7. PROZON  (c)      Refrigeration    Establishment of nationwide 3 R     425          1,013        1,438 (c)     450           532         982         2,420
(Warsaw)            Servicing        network
8. State Fire Service   Training     Training on non-halon fire           9             -             9          100           II           I11         120
Headquarts. (SFSH)                   protection
(Warsaw)                                                                                                                                                         l
9. IDA/OLPU         Government       Institutional strengthening for      -             -             -           20           55           75           75
ODS Project Implementation     __
SUB-TOTALS                                                              4,415         9.538         13,953       962          4,657        5,619       19,572
Contingency (12%                                                          -             -             -           70           450         520          520
of non-retroactive
GEF Grants)                                                                                                              IlI_I
Financial Agency                                                          -             -             -           75            -           75          75
Fee (1.25%)                                                                              _       l
TOTALS                                                                  4,415         9,538         13,953      1,107         5,107       6,214       2
(a) of which, US$1 million Ekofund Grant.
(b) of which, US$670,000 loan from National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management
(c) of which, possible US$550,000 Ekofund Grant



SCHEDULE B
Page 1 of 11
POLAND
ODS PHASE-OUT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS & REPORTING
A.    Procurement
1.    General:  The Polish Procurement Law of 1995 (PPL) stipulates that the procurement
procedures of international Grantors may supersede those of the PPL if the Grantor (for this Project the
World Bank as Trustee for the Global Environmental Fund (GEF)) so wishes. Procurement of all
goods and service contracts financed in whole or in part by the GEF Grant, therefore, will be in
accordance with the World Bank Procurement Guidelines of January 1995, as revised in January 1996,
as specified below for this Project. The Industrial Development Agency (IDA), which fulfills the role
of Implementing Agent (IA) and Financial Agent (FA), will be responsible for ensuring that the
procurement methods proposed and used by the Participating Enterprises and other beneficiaries, are in
accordance with these Guidelines.
2.    The following procedures will be used for the respective groups of Sub-Projects (see table 1).
2.1.   Sub-Projects 1-6: These six beneficiary enterprises are either wholly or majority owned
private sector, or autonomous state-owned for-profit commercial enterprises.
Goods:       (i)    Most of the higher value goods contracts (e.g. explosion proof high
pressure foam injection systems) to be financed for these Sub-Projects
are process specific with a limited number of suppliers. Procurement
for these Sub-Projects will be carried out by the enterprises themselves
in accordance with the established prudent commercial practices where
selection would be based upon evaluation of quotations obtained from
at least three qualified suppliers. International competitive bidding
(ICB) will be used above a threshhold of US$1million per contract.
(ii)    Where sole supplier sourcing is dictated by process specific or
proprietary technology, direct contracts (DC) would be awarded on the
basis of negotiations with the technology supplier. The Bank's prior
approval for each case of direct contracting would be necessary; the
aggregate limit for DC under this Project is US$1.0 million.
2.2.   Sub-Projects 7-8 and Sub-Component 9: Procurement for Sub-Project 7 (PROZON Non-
profit Foundation), Sub-Project 8 (State Fire Service) and Sub-Component 9 (the Ministry of
Economy), will be carried out by the respective organizations according to the following procedures:
Goods:
(i)          Contracts over US$250,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures; domestic
preference will apply; Standard Bidding Documents for ICB of the
World Bank would be used;



SCHEDULE B
Page 2 of 11
(ii)         Contracts valued from US$25,000 up to US$250,000 equivalent would
be awarded on the basis of international shopping (IS) procedures
where price quotations would be obtained from at least three qualified
suppliers from at least two countries
(iii)        Contracts below US$25,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis
of national shopping (NS) procedures where quotations would be
obtained from at least three qualified suppliers.
Consultants:        Consultant services for engineering studies, technical assistance, study
tours and training programs would be procured in accordance with the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank" published
by the World Bank in August 1981.
2.3.    Prior Review:      The following contracts and bid packages will be subject to the Bank's prior revie
(i)          ICB packages.
(ii)         The first IS contract for goods; and all DC procurement.
(iii)        Terms of References for all consulting services contracts; short list,
terms of reference, letter of invitation and award decisions for
consultant contracts over US$100,000 equivalent for firms or
institutions, and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals.
2.4.   Ex-post Review: All contracts for goods and consultant services which are financed in whole
or in part through the GEF Grant which are not subject to prior review, will be made available for ex-
post review by the Bank in order to verify compliance with Bank procurement guidelines. IDA would
periodically provide to the Bank task manager information on procurement progress and projected
procurement time tables.
3.    Retroactive Financing: Project expenditures incurred after October 3, 1994, are eligible for
retroactive financing, provided the above procurement was carried out in accordance with Bank
Guidelines (January 1995). Retroactive financing shall be limited to no more than 20% of total eligible
incremental costs for Sub-Projects for which expenditures are being retroactively financed by the GEF
grant. By end-May 1996, two enterprises had incurred expenses worth US$ 1.0 million, or about 15%
of the total GEF grant financing, which would be financed retroactively. These Sub-Projects have
already been reviewed with respect to procurement and were found acceptable.  For further
expenditures to be retroactively financed, the procurement process should be consistent with Bank
procedures as spelled out above, and all records should be available to the Bank for review. It is
estimated that further retroactive financing may amount up to US$200,000.



SCHEDULE B
Page 3 of 11
POLAND
ODS Phase-Out Project
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000 Equivalent)
Procurement Method
lProjecr Elemenlt              ICB      LIB       Other    Non Bank       Total
l___.__. Financed                            Cost
1. Goods
1.1 Equipment (includg. installation)     500              5,030       13,426       18,956
(500)A            (5,030)'                (5,530)
1.2 Materials                                                150         68          218
I__(_150)_                 (150)
2. Consultancies
2.1 Expert Consultants (IDA)                                 22                       22
(22)c                   (22)
2.2 State Fire Service Seminars                              125          9          134
(125)c                  (125)
2.3 Training                                                 280                     280
(280)c                  (280)
2.4 Other (Engineering Studies)                                          450         450
3. Miscellaneous
3.1 IDA/OLPU Institutional Strengthening                     22D                      22
(22)                    (22)
3.2 Financial Agent Fee                                      85E                      85
(85)                    (85)
Totair                                       5      .0          5,714      13,953      20,167 |
______________________________________       (50)              {5,714)                 (6,214)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the GEF Grant. NBF: Not Bank-Financed,
to be financed by Participating Enterprises.
a) ICB will be used for large batches of recovery machines for 3-R Sub-Project (over US$250,000).
b) To be procured in accordance with procurement limits agreed upon in Schedule B. They consists of:
(i) Prudent Commercial Practices: up to US$ 4.6 million; (ii) International Shopping up to US$0.6 million;
and (iii) National Shopping: up to US$ 0.1 million.
c) Consultants services (engineering support, on-site installation assistance, training in the operation and safety
of new equipment, study abroad tours, etc.) to be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: "Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"; Washington, D.C.,
August 1981.
d) Funds will cover the costs of consultant- and IDA-staff travel and subsistence.
e) Fee for services provided by the Financial Agent: 1.25 percent of the value of Sub-Project 1-8.
f)  Physical and price contingencies for the Project of 12% of the Grant Requests for non-retroactive Sub-
Projects are included.



SCHEDULE B
Page 4 of 11
POLAND
ODS Phase-Out Project
Procurement Plan
Estimated   Procure  Estimated Estimated  Estimated
Sub-Project   Sub-Project      Contract         Contract    ment   Date of   Date of   Date of
Enterprise   & Lot No.                           Cost    Method 2) Invitation  Contract  Contract
(US$'000             to Bid   Signature Completion
Equivalent) )
1. POLAR            1.1    C-Pentane High
Pressure Injection Syst.  529 (gr)  CP   Retroactiv    94         95
e
2. ZAMEX            2.1    C-Pentane High
Pressure Injection Syst.  792 (gr)  CP       3/97     12/97      9/98
3. INZYNIERIA       3.1    C02/H20 Low Pressure
Injection System       149 (gr)     CP      12/96      5/97      3/98
4. METAPLAST        4.1    C-Pentane High
Pressure Injection Syst.  481 (gr)  CP   Retroactiv    95         96
e
5. POLFA S.A.       5.1    Aerosol Filling Line    500 (gr)     CP       6/97      9/97      8/98
5.2    Other Equipment          300        CP       3/97      9/97      6/98
6. EDA S.A.      6.1 - 6.19  19 Machine Tool and   900 (gr)
Lab Equip. Contracts    500 (gr)    CP      to 3/97   to 8/97    8/98
400 (gr)
7. PROZON           7.1    Reclaim Center            200        IS       4/97      7/97      5/98
7.2    Chromatograph             50         IS      3/96      6/97      2/98
7.3    up to 250 Recovery     up to 250     IS      6/97      10/97     2/98
Pumps at $1000/ea.
7.4    500 Recovery Pumps at  500 (gr)    ICB       8/97      11/97     3/98
$ 1000/each.
7.5    Technician Training      250       BCG       4/97      7/97      5/98
8. SFPS HQ          8.1    Non-Halon Seminars        65        BCG       2/97      4/97      8/97
8.2    Other Services            55       BCG
9. IDA/OLPU         9.1    Computers/Peripherals     25         NS       4/97      7/97      1/98
9.2    OtherEquipment/Suppli     25        NS       3/97      7/97       1/98
es
9.3    Technical Consultants     25       BCG    ongoing   ongoing    12/98
NOTES:
1)     (gr): Grant amount for partial financing of larger value contract or contracts
2)     CP: Prudent Commercial Practices. Some contracts may require direct contracting (DC).
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
IS:  International Shopping
NS: National Shopping
BCG: Bank Consulting Guidelines



SCHEDULE B
Page 5 of 11
B.    Disbursement
4.    IDA will assume the day-to-day responsibilities related to disbursement for the Investment, 3-R,
and State Fire Service Training Sub-Projects (Sub-Projects 1-8). Disbursement to the IDA and OLPU under
the Sub-Component for Institutional Strengthening will be made directly to IDA against quarterly invoices.
To facilitate disbursements, IDA will establish a Deutsche Mark denominated Special Account in the name
of IDA with a qualified commercial bank. An initial deposit of up to US$500,000 equivalent may be
requested after the Special Account is opened and the Grant has become effective.
5.    Terms, conditions, and schedules for disbursement for Sub-Projects I - 8 will be included in the
Sub-Grant agreements between the IDA and each Participating Enterprise. Retroactive financing will be
provided up to US$ 1.2 million. Disbursement will follow the guidelines established in the Disbursement
Handbook published by the Bank. Details of the disbursement procedures will be included in the
Disbursement Letter to be issued by the Bank subsequent to Grant signature.
6.     The financial fee of the IDA, equal to 1.25 % of all disbursements, will be withdrawn by IDA from
the Special Account at the time of each disbursement.
7.     Detailed responsibilities of IDA will be as follows:
(i)    Establish Sub-Project record keeping system and maintain this system.
(ii)    Open a Special Account in a commercial bank and supervise its operation and
replenishment.
(iii)   Supervise establishment and processing of procurement supporting documents, submitted
by Participating Enterprises, such as contract or purchase orders, transportation documents,
invoices and vouchers or statements of expenditures (SOEs).
(iv)   Prepare withdrawal applications for disbursements from the Grant.
(v)    Maintain records for all transactions, by Sub-Project, and report on a regular basis to MOE
and the Bank. Make records available, upon request, to MOE, Bank staff and auditors.
(vi)   Arrange for audits to be executed on the Special Account, and IDA's Project
administration. Participating Enterprises will be required to carry out audits of their
operations at their own expense.
8.    The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each category, and the percentage of expenditures
for items to be financed in each category:



SCHEDULE B
Page 6 of 11
Amount of the
Grant
Category              Allocated            Percentage of Expenditures
(Expressed in               to be Financed
000's US$
_Equivalent)
Goods:                                      100%  of foreign expenditures; 100%  of local
5,218    expenditures (ex-factory cost); and 85% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally
Consultants' Services and Training  381     100%
Operating Costs                     95      100%
Unallocated                         520
Total                        J    6,214
9.     The Project is expected to be disbursed by mid 1998. The Trustee will disburse against 100% of
eligible foreign expenditures; 100% of eligible local expenditures (ex-factory cost); and 85% of other
eligible local expenditures for grant financed goods and services contracts. The IDA, in cooperation with
the Commercial Bank which will hold the Special Account assume the day-to-day responsibilities related to
disbursement for the Sub-Projects under the investment component (Sub-Projects I - 6), the 3R scheme
(Sub-Project 7) and the training Sub-Project (Sub-Project 8). Disbursement to IDA under the Sub-
Component for Institutional Strengthening will be made directly to IDA against quarterly invoices.
Disbursement to IDA for reimbursement of its operating costs as Implementing Agent and Financial Agent
(1.25% fee on all disbursements for Sub-Projects 1 to 8; and an amount of up to US$ 20,000 for travel and
subsistence of IDA staff and consultants during Sub-Project supervision) will be by direct withdrawal from
the Special Account at the time of each disbursement (fee), and after completion of mission travel. Standard
Bank disbursement procedures will be followed, with established limits on initial deposit and replenishment
levels, statements of expenditures, and Bank procurement review levels. Funds will be deposited in a
Special Account which IDA will establish with a Commercial Bank in Poland acceptable to the World
Bank. Disbursement procedures have been established as follows:
(a) General: Schedules of disbursement for Sub-Projects under the Investment Component and
the 3-R Scheme should be included in the Sub-Grant agreements between IDA and each
Participating Enterprise. Disbursement will follow the guidelines established in the
Disbursement Handbook published by the World Bank. Details of the procedures will be
included in the initial Disbursement Letter to be issued by the World Bank.
(b) Special Account: The Trustee will deposit an initial amount up to DM 750,000 equivalent to a
Special Account which the IDA will open in the Commercial Bank to be selected. Once
accumulated disbursements have reached DM 1.5 million equivalent, the authorized amount
deposited in the Special Account will be increased to DM 1.5 million equivalent.
(c) Statement of Expenditures (SOEs): Requests for reimbursement will be made by IDA
based on Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for goods contracts valued up to US$250,000
equivalent, with the exception of the first contract procured under intemational shopping
procedures, all contracts procured under direct contracting procedures, US$100,000 and
US$50,000 equivalent for consulting services from firms and individuals, respectively, and for
all expenditures for training and operating costs.



SCHEDULE B
Page 7 of 11
(d) Direct Payments from the Grant Account: The minimum application size for payments
directly from the Grant Account or for issuance of Special Commitments is 20% of the Special
Account Authorized Allocation.
10.    Conditions of disbursement are that (a) Sub-Grant Agreements must be signed between the IDA
and the Participating Enterprises responsible for the corresponding Sub-Projects before disbursement can
begin for those Sub-Projects; (b) the IDA must certify to the World Bank that (i) each Sub-Project meets
local environmental, and health-, and safety standards, and has obtained required permits; and' (ii)
procurement arrangements of the enterprise are in compliance with the Bank's guidelines; (c) for the
POLFA Sub-Project, OORG aproval has been obtained, tests have established physical feasability and
medical effectiveness, and the Ministry of Health has provided a registration approval for the product; (d)
for the 3-R Component, pilot implementation plan and initial incentives satisfactory to the Bank have been
established; and (e) for EDA S.A. and METALPLAST, the Bank has satisfied itself of an improving
financial condition.
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT
('000 US$)
FY97T                FY 98                   FY99
| Annual                             1,800                 4,200                    214
Cumulative                          1,800                6,000                   6,214
11.    Flow of Funds under the Project: IDA which includes financial experts, will be responsible for
supervising procurement steps, for administering contractual payments, for withdrawing funds from the
Grant; for supervising management and replenishment of the Special Account, for making payments to
suppliers of goods and services, and for keeping up-to-date and accurate Sub-Project records. The use of
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) would be allowed for contracts as per para. 9 above. For these contracts
there would be no need of sending supporting documents (i.e., the Contract/Purchase Order, Invoice,
Shipment Documents, Payment Certificates or Receipts) to the Bank. Only a SOE, based on supporting
documents, would be sent to the Bank, along with a Withdrawal Application. The supporting documents
would be kept in Poland, and would be made available to MOE, Bank staff, and auditors upon request for
verification and audit. To facilitate timely Project implementation, IDA would, in a commercial Bank,
acceptable to the Bank, establish and maintain a Special Account under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank (para 9). Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must
include reconciled bank statements, as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
12.   Participating Enterprises will submit purchase orders, invoices, vouchers and receipts to IDA. IDA
would verify these documents and then proceed to arrange for payments using SOEs. Payments could be
either directly from the Bank or from the Special Account maintained at the commercial bank.
C.    Reporting and Audits
13.   IDA will prepare quarterly and semi-annual descriptive and financial reports on each of the 8 Sub-
Projects and on its own activities with respect to the Project (beginning from date of effectiveness of the
Grant). The reports will describe (a) current status; (b) deviations, if any, from the implementation plan;
(c) reasons for deviations and corrective actions being taken. These reports will be based on the quarterly



SCHEDULE B
Page 8 of 11
progress reports to be submitted by Participating Enterprises to IDA. Bank supervision will be based on
semi-annual progress reports.
14.    Sub-Project accounts for each Sub-Project at the Participating Enterprises' Bank(s), the Special
Account, and IDA Project records will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and in
accordance with the "Bank's Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the
World Bank" (March 1992). Audits of Sub-Project Accounts will be the responsibility of Participating
Enterprises, but IDA will assist them, if necessary, in identifying suitable auditing firms. IDA will obtain
copies of the audits of the Sub-Project Accounts and forward a set to the World Bank as soon as possible
after receipt. Arrangements of the other Audits are the responsibility of IDA.
15.   IDA will provide to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year, an audit report of the
Special Account and the Sub-Project records of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request,
including a separate opinion of disbursements against certified statements of expenditures (SOEs). The
latter should mention whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawal applications.  In addition, IDA  will prepare financial forecasts of expected
disbursements, and will request Participating Enterprises to update their respective financial forecasts
towards the end of each fiscal year.
16.    Project Monitoring indicators and Table Formats for Quarterly reports are shown in the following
tables.



SCHEDULE B
Page 9 of 11
POLAND
GEF ODS PHASE-OUT PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
A.    Financial Indicators
Income Statement    )
Balance Sheet       ) Audited Statement annually; unaudited semi-annually
Fund Flow Statement )
Income as Percent of Sales    )
Current Ratio              )
Debt/Equity Ratio          ) Semi-annually
Debt Service Coverage Ratio  )
Days of Accounts Receivable  )
Days of Accounts Payable   )
B.    Technical Indicators (Time Table for Project)
Provide quarterly reports on the major contract items:
Planned             Actual
Date Offers Invited:
Date Offers Received:
Date of Contract Signature:
Date of Delivery of Equipment:
Date of Completion of Installation:
Date of Start of Testing:
Date of Completion of Testing:
Date of Start of Commercial Operation:
C.    Enviromnental Indicators
Provide quarterly Reports on the quantities of ODS (specify by type) used (use table format
provided): See attached table formats. Furthermore, provide on a quarterly basis:
Planned             Actual
Date: Environmental Permit(s) obtained (as needed):
Date: Safety Permit(s) obtained (as needed):
Worker's Health Approvals (if any)



SCHEDULE B
Page 10 of 11
D.    Commercial Indicators
These need to be provided on a quarterly basis:
Planned             Actual
Sub-Project 1: POLAR: # of Refrigerators Produced:
# of Refrigerators Sold:
# of Freezers Produced:
# of Freezers Sold:
Sub-Project 2: ZAMEX: # of Freezers Produced:
# of Freezers Sold:
Sub-Project 3: INZYNIERIA:
km of Pipe Produced:
kam of Pipe Sold:
Sub-Project 4: METALPLAST:
t of Insulation Panels Produced:
t of Insulation Panels Sold:
Sub-Project 5: POLFA S.A.:
# of Spray-Units Produced:
# of Spray units Sold:
Sub-Project 6: EDA S.A.:
# of Compressors produced:
# of Compressors sold:
Sub-Project 7: PROZON:
# of Recovery Machines Distributed:
kg of CFC 12 Recovered:
at Workshops
at Depots
kg of CFC 12 Reclaimed
kg of Reclaimed CFC 12 sold
Price of Recovered CFC 12:
Price of Reclaimed CFC 12:
Sub-Project 8: State Fire Service Headquarters:
# of Persons Trained:



Quarterly
(by CIB/CITIC)
Poland
ODS Phase-Out Project
Status of Implementation for Period Ending -
Subproject Subproject ODS Phaseout Stattis of ODS/ODP    Expected      Current Expected Explanation of Delays
Number  Name        Target         Phaseout (MT) (Actual) Completion    Completion Date
Date
Key Reporting Dates for Period Ending
Subproject Subproject Date Appraisal Date Subgrant       Date of First   Date of Final  Date of Production Start-up (if prior to
Number  Name        Completed      Agreement Signed      Disbursement  Disbursment      completion)
Status of Fund Utilization and Disbursement for Period Ending    (IJS$000)
For the Quarter Ending  .............              Projected Disburse.    Explanation
Subproject Subproject  Disb. Request Submitted by Enterprise  Disbursement to Enterprise     for next 3 months    of Significant
Delays             - 
Number   Name           Date             Amount              Date          Amount               Amount



SCHEDULE C
POLAND
ODS PHASE-OUT PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)    Time Taken to Prepare:                    20 months
(b)    Prepared By:                              Enterprises, OLPU, MOEPNRF,
MOIT (currently the Ministry of Economy)
and the World Bank
(c)    First Presentation to the Bank:           March 1995
(d)    Appraisal Mission Departure:              April 1996 *)
(c)    Negotiations:                             July 1996
(d)    Board Approval:                           March 1997 *)
(e)    Signature of Grant Agreement:             April 1997
(f)    Planned Date of Effectiveness:            May 15, 1997
(g)    Planned Date of Project Launch Workshop   May 1997
(h)    Expected Date of Completion:              June 1998
(i)    Expected Date of Closing:                 December 1998
Project Preparation was on halt from May 1995 to February 1996 and from July to October 1996
because Poland had not signed, and then not deposited its instruments of ratification of the Copenhagen
and London Amendments to the Montreal Protocol. GEF clearance was obtained in December 1996,
with the project updated in January 1997.



Schedule D
Page I of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Poland
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     Between actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                               and expected
Project ID    Credit      Year            Borrower                   Purpose            IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Disbursements a/
No.
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 12
PL-PE-8568   L32150        1990   POLISH OIL AND GAS CO.      ENERGY RES. DEV             250.00        0.00            0.00         52.57              52.57
PL-PE-8569   L31660        1990  NBP                          IND. EXPORT DEVT.           260.00        0.00            0.00        184.13             184.13
PL-PE-8576   L33820        1991  DISTRICT HEATING ENTITY   HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCT           100.00        0.00            0.00         53.40              92.79
PL-PE-8576   L33810        1991   DISTRICT HEATING ENTITY   HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCT           25.00        0.00            0.00          5.93              15.91
PL-PE-8576   L33790        1991   DISTRICT HEATING ENTITY   HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCT           25.00        0.00            0.00         10.74              20.72
PL-PE-8576   L33780        1991   DISTRICT HEATING ENTITY   HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCT           40.00        0.00            0.00         16.87              32.78
PL-PE-8571   L33420        1991   REPUBLIC OF POLAND          PRIVATIZN & RESTRUCT        280.00        0.00           47.28         88.85             134.13
PL-PE-8585   L33410        1991  MIN OF FINANCE               FIN. INST. DEVELOP.         200.00        0.00            0.00         22.08              22.08
PL-PE-8582   L33380        1991  REPUBLIC OF POLAND           EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION        100.00        0.00           20.00         57.51              77.51
PL-PE-8574   L33190        1991   POLISH POST, TELEPHONE      TELECOMS I                  120.00        0.00           25.00         13.61              38.61
AN
PL-PE-8590   L34990        1992   REPUBLIC OF POLAND          HOUSING                     200.00        0.00          180.00         17.49             149.49
PL-PE-8587   L34660        1992   REPUBLIC OF POLAND          HEALTH                      130.00        0.00           30.00         69.23              71.53
PL-PE-8599   L35640        1993   REPUBLIC OF POLAND          ROADS                       150.00        0.00            0.00         74.54              23.54
PL-PE-8610   L36410        1994   GOVT. OF POLAND             FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT        146.00        0.00           42.00         15.44             -88.56
PL-PE-8614   L38090        1995   KATOWICE DISTRICT           KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY         45.00        0.00            0.00         37.02              12.72
HEATING
PL-PE-8595   L40321        1996   BIELSKO-BIALA AQUA S.A.    BIELSKO-BIALA WATER             9.50       0.00            0.00          8.48               0.00
PL-PE-8595   L40320        1996   BIELSKO-BIALA AQUA S.A.    BIELSKO-BIALA WATER           12.00        0.00            0.00         12.00               0.00
PL-PE-8604   L39590        1996   POLISH POWER GRID CO        POWER TRANSMISSION          160.00        0.00            0.00        152.50               8.50
PL-PE-36061  L40801        1997  GOVERNMENT OF POLAND         PORT ACCESS & MGMT.          33.50        0.00            0.00         31.78               0.00
PL-PE-36061  L40800        1997  GOVERNMENT OF POLAND         PORT ACCESS & MGMT.          33.50        0.00            0.00         33.50               0.00
Total                                                                                   2,319.50        0.00          344.28        957.67
Active  Loans       Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              1,014.81           1,394.27            2,409.08
of which has been repaid:                 90.98             112.99              203.97
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              1,884.24           1,411.14            3,295.38
Amount sold                                      0.00                0.00               0.00
Of which repaid              :                0.00                0.00               0.00
Total Undisbursed               :              957.67              129.86           1,087.53
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance
(ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed
Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
c. Following the FY94 ARPP, "Implementation Progress" will be reported here.
Note:
The Following GEF Grants exist in Poland:
TF021685 Poland Forest Biodiversity, US$4.5 million, US$4.18 million disbursed.
TF028665 Coal to Gas, US$25 million; Us$320,000 disbursed.



Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
Poland
STATEMENTOF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 12/31/96
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                     Disbursed
------------IFC-------------  ------------IFC-------------
FY           Company          Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
Approval
1990     Bristol Hotel           7.28    0.00    0.00    0.00   7.28    0.00   0.00    0.00
1990     EDB-AL                   5.68    0.00    6.42    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1990     EDB-Malkiewicz            .01    0.00    0.00    0.00   .01    0.00   0.00    0.00
1990     EDB-Piotr Ostrow         .13    0.00    0.00    0.00   .13    0.00   0.00    0.00
1990     EDB-ITAL-POL              .01    0.00    0.00    0.00   .01    0.00   0.00    0.00
1991     CHEMAGEV                 1.41    0.00    0.00    1.92   1.41    0.00   0.00    1.92
1991    Intl Bank Poland          0.00    3.20    0.00    0.00   0.00    3.20   0.00    0.00
1992     Philips Poland          10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  10.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1993     BONA                    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   2.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1993     Huta Warszawa           37.46    0.00    4.73    0.00  13.11    0.00   2.29    0.00
1993     PEF-Poland              0.00    2.30    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.25   0.00    0.00
1993     Sandoglass             30.60    0.00    8.27   18.43  30.60    0.00   8.27   18.43
1994     Amoco Poland            0.00    0.00    8.70    0.00   0.00    0.00   3.72    0.00
1994     Handlowy Heller         0.00     .41    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1994     Kwidzyn                 19.37    0.00    0.00   15.13  19.37    0.00   0.00   15.13
1994     PPMs Opole              5.25    0.00    1.00    0.00   5.25    0.00   .88   0.00
1995     Globi Retailing         0.00   10.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    7.66   0.00    0.00
1995    Intercell                0.00    7.72    0.00    0.00   0.00    7.72   0.00    0.00
1995    Nesky                     .07      .50    1.55    0.00   .07    .50   1.55    0.00
1996     Baltic Malt             6.55    1.96   0.00    0.00   3.05    1.87   0.00    0.00
1996     Gaspol                 20.00    5.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    5.00   0.00    0.00
Pending Commitments
1996     * GLOBE TRADE           7.50    0.00    3.80   16.70
CNTR
1997     * IBP II                0.00    0.00    4.00    8.00
1997     * INTERCELL II-RI       0.00      .71   0.00    0.00
1997     * NORGIPS               12.92    0.00    0.00   24.31
1996     * PAM BANK              15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Note: The following GEF Grant exists: TF028674 Poland Efficient Lighting Project; US$5 million.



Schedule E
Page 1 of 2
Poland at a glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central  middle-    _
Poland      Asia  Income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1995 (millions)                         38.6       488    1,154
GNP per capia 1995 (USS)                              2,800      2,240    1,700                Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (billions US$)                               107.9      1,093    1,962
Average annual growth, 1990-95                                                                        T
Population (I%)                                         0.3        0.4      1.4      GNP                               Gross
Labor force (I%)                                        0.5        0.6      1.8      per                         I    primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                              capita                         enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)               24
Urban population (% of total population)                 65        66        56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         72        68        67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 14        23        36               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                   ..                  78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                                                           Poland
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    97        97       104          -Poland
Male                                                   97        97      105                 Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 97        97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1994     1995
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                              ..    71.1        92.6    117.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                    ..    27.7       15.9     17.0
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP    ..    18.2        24.0     27.9             Openness of economy
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                         .     29.0       16.9     18.6
Gross national savings/GDP                       .     26.5       16.7     18.2
Current account balance/GDP                      ..    -1.7       -1.0     -1.8
Interest payments/GDP                           ..      2.1        1.2      2.0     Savings    -             -    Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   ..    46.9       45.5     36.2
Total debt service/exports                      ..    17.1        15.8     16.9
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..       36. 1
Present value of debt/exports                                    171.1                           Indebtedness
1975-84  1985-95     1994      1995  1996-04
(average annual growth)                                                                  -     Poland
GDP                                    ..      1.1       5.2       7.0      4.7
GNP per capita                         ..      1.2      3.6        8.3      4.1           -    Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and nfs               ..      7.4      13.1      25.8      9.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1994     1995
(% of GDP)                                                                           Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                             14.5       7.0      7.3      30
Industry                                               51.0       42.6     44.0      I .
Manufacturing                                            .      36.2     37.6 t
Services                                         .     34.4       50.3     48.7             90                93   94   95
Private consumption                                    61.8       64.3     63.2    -30
Generalgovemmentconsumption                      .      9.2       18.8     18.2               -     GDI   -O     GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services                16.9      23.0     26.3
1975-84  1985.95      1994     1995
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                     ..    -3.2       -15.1     11.6       OT0
Industry                                        ..    -4.5         8.8     11.1
Manufacturing                                  .         ..     10.3      12.0     20 t
Services                                                 7.5       5.1      1.5      t0
Private consumption                              .       2.9       3.8      4.5       0.
General govemment consumption                    .       2.5       2.8      3.0                   91   9Z   93   94   95
Gross domestic investment                        .      -3.9       9.0     18.5     -0s
Imports of goods and non-factor services        ..      7.9       11.3     26.5                    Expons  -m pons
Gross national product                          ..       1.5       5.4      8.3
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Schedule E
Page 2 of 2
Poland
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1994     1995
Domestic                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                           600
Consumer prices                                 2.3      11.5      32.2     27.8    400
Implici GDP deflator                             ..    16.7        28.4     27.0
Govemment finance a!
(% of GDP)                                                                             0       -   - -
Current revenue                                                    47.2     46.6              90   91   92   93   94   95
Current budget balance                                             -0.2       0.0              -GDP  def  --CPI
Overall surplus/defici                           ..        ..      -2.0     -1.9
TRADE
1975     1986      1994      1995      E        a
(millions USS)                                                                        Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                              17,240   22,846      30,000 -
Other metals                                                    1,057
Other metals                                                      267
Manufactures                                                   11,695   15,879      20,000                        l
Total imports (cot)                                              21,569   29,337
Food                                                            1,876  2,333  10 000AU ill
Fuel and energy                                                 3,523    4,392
Capital goods                                                   8,226    8,676 
Export price index (1990=100)                                       97       114             B9  90  91  92  93  94  9S
Import price index (1990=100)                                       92       108                   oExports   mo Imports
Terms of trade (1990=100)                                           105      106
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1994      1995
(millions US$)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services         ..  11,778    19,050   26,068        6
Imports of goods and non-factor services         ..  11,209    19,829   27,745          .
Resource balance                                  ,      569       -779    -1,677     4
Net factor income                                      -2,557    -1,347     -607
Net current transfers                            ..      778      1,182      183
Current account balance,                                                           0|                         IT.I .., 2 t . ,
before official transfers                      ..  -1,210        -944   -2,101    191 292   93   94.   9
Financing items (net)                            .,      974      3,478   11,705
Changes in net reserves                          ..      236    -2,534   -9,604       4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)              ..   1,025       6,029    15,633
Conversion rate (local/US$)                       .  1.5E-02        2.3      2.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1994      1995
(millions US$)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            698   33,307    42,160   42,636
IBRD                                           0         0      1,818    2,067                    G    A   c
IDA                                            0         0         0         0             F    10126   05
Total debt service                              190    2,045      3,093    4,567            9689       X           180
IBRD                                            0        0        88       152
IDA                                             0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 0        0      1,664    1,500
Official creditors                            -6       693       565      -113
Private creditors                            328      -193       -636      869                                    E
Foreign direct investment                      0        15      1,875    1,800                                  29484
Portfolio equity                               0         0         5       200
World Bank program
Commitments                                     0        0       215         0      A-IBRD                       E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                   0        0       672       210      B - IDA    D-Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                            0        0         0        19      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Nettlows                                       0         0       672       191
Interest payments                              0         0        88       133
Net transfers                                  0         0       584        58
Intemational Economics Department                                                                                        11/6/96
a. Govemment finance represents general govemment accounts.






PART II: Technical Annexes






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 15
POLAND: ODS PHASE-OUT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
SUB-PROJECT SUMMARIES
1.  POLAR
2.  ZAMEX
3.  INZYNIERIA
4.  METALPLAST
5.  POLFA TARCHOMIN S.A.
6.  EDA S.A.
7.  PROZON FOUNDATION
8.  STATE FIRE SERVICE HDQTRS.
9.  MOE/IDA/OLPU



TABLE 1: POLAND ODS PHASE-OUT PROJECT: SUMMARY OF SUB-PROJECT DATA AND COSTS (000'S US$)
Sub-Project /                                 Sub-Project              Annual ODP          Cost           Total       Incremental      Eligible        Enterprise       Proposed
Enterprises           Sector            Description / Objective        Phase-out      Effectiveness    Sub-Project       Cost        Retroactive      Financing          GEF
(t/yr.)      (USS/kg/yr.)       Cost                        Financing     Requirement(d)       Grant
1. Polar             Domestic          Conversion from CFC-1 1/12 to
(Wroclaw)            Refrigeration      cyclopentane/HFC-134a as              200             2.65           4,012           2,907           529             3,483            529
foaming /cooling agent
2. Zamex (a)         Domestic           Foaming line conversion from           75             10.56           1,100          792              -               308             792
(Zagan)              Refrigeration      CFC-I I to cyclopentane                             (threshold)
3. Inzynieria (a)    Insulated          Factory conversion from CFC-1 1        19             7.83             195            195             -               46              149
(Warsaw)             Pipes              to carbon dioxide/water                            (threshold)                                                 _
4. Metalplast (b)    Insulation         Conversion from CFC-I I to n-         300              1.60           7,016          2,666          481              6,535            481
(Oborniki)           Panels             pentane blowing agent
5. Polfa S.A.        Pharmaceutical     Conversion from CFC-1 1/12 to         320             2.50            1,237          1,000            -               437            800
(Warsaw)                                hydrocarbon propellant
6. EDA S.A.,         Refrigerator       Conversion from CFC-12 to HFC-       Indirect          NA            3,397           1,700                           1,697           1,700
(Poniatowa)          Compressors        134a compressors                     (150)
7. PROZON            Refrigeration      Establishment of nationwide 3 R       140             7.01           2,420           982                             1,438            982
(Warsaw)             Servicing          network
8. State Fire Service   Training       Training on non-halon fire           Indirect           NA             120             111                              9              111
Headquarters                            protection
(Warsaw)
9. IDA and OLPU      Govemment          Institutional strengthening for ODS  Indirect          NA              75             75              -                -              75
(IDA/OLPU)        project implementation
SUB-TOTALS                                                                                                   19,572         10,428          1,010           13,953           5,619
Contingency (12%
of non-retroactive                                                                                            520                                                            520
GEF  Grants)
Financial Agency
Fee (1.25%)                                                                                                    75                                                             75
TOTALS                                                                       1,054           5.90 (c)        20,167         10,428          1,010           13,953           6,214
DIRECT
(a) Grant amount per cost effectiveness threshold.
(b) 34% Polish ownership.
(c) Cost effectiveness basis: Total Grant/Total ODP (Ozone Depleting Potential).
(d) Enterprise Financial Requirement equals Total Sub-Project Cost less Proposed GEF Grant.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 15
SUB-PROJECT 1 SUMMARY
COUNTRY:                            Poland
SUB-PROJECT TITLE / OBJECTIVE:  CFC- 11/12 to Cyclopentane/HFC- 134a Factory Conversion
IMPLEMENTING ENTERPRISE:            Polar
LOCATION:                           Wroclaw
SECTOR:                             Domestic Refrigeration
ODS USE IN SECTOR  (t/yr):          155 t CFC-12; 270 t CFC-1 I
PROJECT IMPACT (t/yr):              200 (150 t CFC-I 1; 50 t CFC-12)
PROJECT DURATION:                   2 years
PROJECT ECONOMIC LIFE:              10 years
SUB-PROJECT COSTS:                  Total Capital Cost         $ 4012
(OOOs US$)                        Incremental Cap. Cost         2907
Proj. Cost (Net of Saving)   4012
GEF Funding Requested         529
FINANCING (000s US):                Bank Zachodni; $1110, Polar; $2902
COST EFFECTIVENESS
(US$/kg ODP/yr):                  $2.29
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:                The World Bank
COORD. NATIONAL BODY:               Ministry of Industry and Trade, until December 31, 1996; Ministry
of Economy from January 1, 1997
STAP REVIEW:                        Reviewed and approved by Mr. M. Janssen
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The sub-project consists of three parts: (i) substitution of CFC-12 refrigerant with HFC-134a in two domestic
refrigerators production lines; (ii) substitution of CFC-I 1 foaming agent with cyclopentane in the production
of cabinets and doors for domestic refrigerating equipment; and (iii) development of a CFC-12 freon recycling
network within Polar's 190 service shops. After deduction of 11% of incremental costs from (i) and (ii) (11%
of production exported to Western Europe), and adjusting for retroactive expenditures (implementation during
1993/94) the proposed GEF grant amount is US$ 529,000.
Status: Final approval by OORG given. Already implemented and eligible for retroactive funding only. Grant
amount adjusted from US$ 408,000 to US $529,000 to reflect 10.8% export sales instead of 35%. Procurement
procedure for contract to which grant will be applied is acceptable. Documents were reviewed by the
Appraisal mission. Financial prospects are good.
Issues: None. Can be disbursed upon sub-project effectiveness.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 15
SUB-PROJECT 2 SUMMARY
COUNTRY:                            Poland
SUB-PROJECT TITLE / OBJECTIVE:  CFC-I I to Cyclopentane Freezer Foaming Line Conversion
IMPLEMENTING ENTERPRISE:           ZAMEX
LOCATION:                           Zagan
SECTOR:                            Domestic Refrigeration
ODS USE IN SECTOR (t/yr):           155 t CFC-12; 270 t CFC-1 I
PROJECT IMPACT (t/yr):              75t
PROJECT DURATION:                   2 years
PROJECT ECONOMIC LIFE:              10 years
SUB-PROJECT COSTS:                  Total Capital Cost       $ 1,100
(OOOs US$)                        Incremental Cap. Cost        792
Project Cost (Net of Savings)   792
GEF Funding Requested       792
FINANCING (000s US$):              GEF Grant $792; ZAMEX $308
COST EFFECTIVENESS
(US$/kg ODP/yr):                  $ 10.56 (rigid polyurethane flammable threshold)
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:               The World Bank
COORD. NATIONAL BODY:              Ministry of Industry and Trade until December 31, 1996; Ministry
of Economy from January 1, 1997
STAP REVIEW:                       Reviewed and approved by Mr. M. Janssen.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Zamex manufactures domestic, commercial and medical supply storage freezers. The object of the project is to
convert the production of the polyurethane rigid insulating foam from CFC-I I to cyclopentane. The use of
cyclopentane is well established in this sub-sector; the project aims at replacing the current three injection
machines with two injection machines which are suitable for use with cyclopentane. Implementation, which
started in November 1995 is still underway. The total eligible incremental cost of the project, US$792,000,
determined by the cost effectiveness threshold for hydrocarbon foaming of rigid polyurethane (US$ 10.56/kg
ODP/yr), is eligible for GEF financing. The project will eliminate annual consumption of 75 t of CFC-I I. R-
12 refrigerant phase out, previously implemented, is outside the scope of the project.
Status: Final approval by OORG given. Foam injection system must be rebid (expired validity of current
bids). Company has already invested considerably in conversion outside project scope. Total conversion cost
was revised upward from US$ 792,000 to US$ 1.1 million to reflect suspected underestimate in plant
modifications and test equipment. Financial prospects acceptable.
Issues: Safety guarantee and acceptable ventilation design to be supplied by foam injection system vendor.
Verification of acceptable commercial procurement procedure.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 15
SUB-PROJECT 3 SUMMARY
COUNTRY:                            Poland
SUB-PROJECT TITLE / OBJECTIVE:  CFC-I I to C02/H20 RPU Foaming Line Conversion
IMPLEMENTING ENTERPRISE:            Inzynieria
LOCATION:                           Warsaw
SECTOR:                             Pipe Insulation
ODS USE IN SECTOR (t/yr):            180 t
PROJECT IMPACT (t/yr):               19 t CFC- 11 consumption in 1995
PROJECT DURATION:                    2 years
PROJECT ECONOMIC LIFE:               10 years
SUB-PROJECT COSTS:                  Total Capital Cost                 195
(OOOs US$)                         Incremental Cap. Cost              195
Project Cost (Net of Savings)     195
GEF Funding Requested             149
(limited by cost effectiveness threshold)
FINANCING (000s US$):               GEF: 149; Firm: 46
COST EFFECTIVENESS
(US$/kg ODP/yr):                   7.83 (rigid polyurethane non-flammable threshold)
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:                The World Bank
COORD. NATIONAL BODY:               Ministry of Industry and Trade until December 31, 1996; Ministry
of Economy from January 1, 1997
STAP REVIEW:                        Reviewed and approved by M. Jeffs
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The enterprise manufactures a range of rigid polyurethane foam items, including insulated pipes. The objective
of the project is to convert from CFC-I I to water/C02 technology, by installing a new high-pressure foam
blowing machine and modifying molds. The total incremental cost is US$195,000. The project will phase out
19 tons/yr of CFC-I I (based on 1995 consumption). Until project implementation is complete, the firm will
be foaming with CFC- II stockpiled prior to Poland's consumption phase out deadline. The GEF grant
request, based on a cost effectiveness threshold of US$ 7.831kg/yr for non-flammable rigid polyurethane
applications is US$ 149,000.
Status: Final approval by OORG given. Foam injection system must be rebid (expired validity of current
bids). Grant amount based on cost effectiveness threshold increased to reflect actual as opposed to estimated
1995 R- 11 consumption.  Total cost decreased to reflect more realistic estimates for required mold
modifications. Financial prospects are acceptable.
Issue: Verification of acceptable commercial procurement procedure.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 15
SUB-PROJECT 4 SUMMARY
COUNTRY:                            Poland
SUB-PROJECT TITLE / OBJECTIVE:  Foam line conversion from CFC- 1 to n-pentane blowing agent.
IMPLEMENTING ENTERPRISE:            Metalplast (34.3% Polish, 65.7% foreign ownership)
LOCATION:                           Oborniki
SECTOR:                            Thermal insulation panels
ODS USE IN SECTOR (t/yr):           300 t in 1994
PROJECT IMPACT (t/yr):              300t
PROJECT DURATION:                   18 months
PROJECT ECONOMIC LIFE:              10 years
SUB-PROJECT COSTS:                 Total Capital Cost           7016
(000s US$)                        Incremental Cap. Cost        2666
Project Cost (Net of Savings)   7016
GEF Funding Requested         481
FINANCING (000s US$)                GEF: 481, Firm: 6535
COST EFFECTIVENESS
(US$/kg ODP/yr):                  1.60
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:                The World Bank
COORD. NATIONAL BODY:               Ministry of Industry and Trade until December 31, 1996; Ministry
of Economy January 1, 1997
STAP REVIEW:                        Reviewed and approved by M. Jeffs.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The enterprise manufactures steel faced sandwich panels on two continuous laminator plants. Three hundred
tons of CFC- I I were used in the production of 1,300 t of foam in 1194. The project objective is to replace
CFC-I I with n-pentane. The project includes the replacement of foaming Line I and retrofitting of Line 2,
including safety equipment to permit foaming with flammable n-pentane. The total cost of the phase-out
project is US$ 7.02 million, with the eligible incremental cost at 34.3% Polish ownership is US$ 2.666
million. After adjustment for retroactive expenditures, the requested GEF grant amount is US$ 481,000. The
result of the project will be the annual phase-out of 300 t of ODP-weighted consumption of CFC-I 1.
Status: Final approval by OORG obtained during Mission. Implementation underway. Eligible for retroactive
funding only. Grant amount adjusted from US$533,000 to US$481,000 to reflect current national ownership
(34.3% instead of 38%). Contract to which grant will be applied signed 4/6/96. Commercial procurement
procedure is acceptable. Financial prospects are good, but 1995 loss suggests financial review prior to
disbursement.
Issues: Safety guarantee to be provided by injection systems vendor. Can be disbursed as soon as sub-project
becomes effective and after satisfactory financial review.



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 15
SUB-PROJECT 5 SUMMARY
COUNTRY:                            Poland
SUB-PROJECT TITLE / OBJECTIVE:  Antibiotic/corticoid aerosol propellant conversion from CFC-1 1/12
to hydrocarbons.
IMPLEMENTING ENTERPRISE:            Polfa Tarchomin S.A.
LOCATION:                           Warsaw
SECTOR:                             Medicinal aerosols
ODS USE IN SECTOR (t/yr):           224 t CFC-I 1; 96t CFC-12 in 1994
PROJECT IMPACT (t/yr):              320 t
PROJECT DURATION:                   2 years
PROJECT ECONOMIC LIFE:              10 years
SUB-PROJECT COSTS:                  Total Capital Cost           1237
(OOOs US$)                        Incremental Cap. Cost         1000
Project Cost (Net of Savings)   1237
GEF Funding Requested         800
FINANCING
(OOs US$):                        GEF: 800; Firm: 437
COST EFFECTIVENESS
(US$/kg ODP/yr):                  2.50
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:                The World Bank
COORD. NATIONAL BODY:               Ministry of Industry and Trade until December 31, 1996; Ministry
of Economy from January 1, 1997
STAP REVIEW:                        Reviewed by H.B. Mc Cain/G. Nardini. Final approval witheld
pending
final assessment of hydrocarbon-based process design and cost.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
In 1994, 224 tons of CFC-l 1 and 96 tons of CFC-12 were used by Polfa as a propellant in the filling of topical
antibiotics and corticoids. Poland has been granted a one year phase-out extension to 31 December 1996 for
CFC phase-out in medicinal aerosols, after which the importation of CFCs for this purpose will be prohibited.
The project objective is to phase out annual consumption of 320 tons ODP by refitting the aerosol filling line
to convert to a non-ODS propellant mix. The initial capital expenditure estimate of US$ I million, which



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 15
would be fully incremental, was based upon use of HFC-134a as the substitute propellant. GEF financing has
been recommended for 80% of the total, or US$ 800,000. In light of the OORG review, which did not
approve HFC-134a for this application due to its high cost and serious GWP and TEWI implications, Polfa is
now evaluating an alternative using hydrocarbon substitute propellants. Preliminary OORG approval was
obtained on that alternative design. Pending verification of the final detailed hydrocarbon cost estimate, the
original incremental cost and proposed GEF Grant figures will be used for the hydrocarbon alternative.
Status: Initial proposal based upon use of HFC-134a propellant rejected by OORG. Extremely cost effective
phase-out of 320 t annual consumption. Increased cost estimate reflects order of magnitude estimate for
hydrocarbon propellant. A creditable technical transfer, process design, and project proposal has been
approved preliminarily for the hydrocarbon alternative, and a final project proposal with detailed cost
estimates will be forthcoming during March 1997, i.e. well prior to disbursement. In spite of delay, should be
retained in project: Polfa is heaviest single user of ODS in Poland. Financial condition acceptable.
Issues: Firm's information on aerosol-propellant phase-out technology was limited. The Bank organized the
visit of a technical expert to discuss project and process alternatives. This visit proved useful and the final
proposal is now under advanced preparation. Final OORG approval pending.



ANNEX I
Page 9 of 15
SUB-PROJECT 6 SUMMARY
COUNTRY:                            Poland
SUB-PROJECT TITLE / OBJECTIVE:  Factory refitting to convert from CFC-12 to
HFC- 1 34a refrigerator compressor production.
IMPLEMENTING ENTERPRISE:            EDA S.A.
LOCATION:                           Poniatowa
SECTOR:                             Domestic refrigerator compressor
ODS USE IN SECTOR (t/yr):           210 t (indirect) in 1994
PROJECT IMPACT (t/yr):              No direct; 150 t indirect
PROJECT DURATION:                   2 years
PROJECT ECONOMIC LIFE:              10 years
SUB-PROJECT COSTS:                  Total Capital Cost           3397
(OOOs US$)                        Incremental Cap. Cost         1700
Project Cost (Net of Savings)   3397
GEF Funding Requested        1700
FINANCING:                          GEF Grant: 1,700; balance, enterprise and National Fund
(OOs US$)                          for Environmental Protection and Water Management
COST EFFECTIVENESS
(US$/kg ODP/yr):                  Indirect
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:                The World Bank
COORD. NATIONAL BODY:               Ministry of Industry and Trade until December 31, 1996;
Ministry of Economy since January 1, 1997
STAP REVIEW:                        Reviewed and approved by L. Kuijpers.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The objective of the project is to convert a household refrigerator compressor factory to produce non-ODS
compressors instead of R-12 compressors. The project will convert a production line for 500,000 units
annually, with an indirect reduction of 150 t of CFC-12 per year. The decision to produce HFC-134a
compressors rather than other non-ODS substitutes was dictated by the requirements of its principal customer,
Polar, which had previously opted for HFC-134a refrigerant technology. The estimated eligible incremental
cost of the project, US$ 1.7 million, of which it is proposed that GEF finance all, reflects deductions from the



ANNEX I
Page 10 of 15
total estimated cost of US$ 3.4 million for capital investments which will contribute to plant modernization, as
well as those necessary to produce improved 134a compressors.
Status: Sub-project substantially revised during Appraisal Mission by expert consultant in conjunction with
EDA, and resubmitted to OORG. Investment necessary to recoup market losses due to internally financed R-
12 to R-134(a) conversion which resulted in deficient quality (noisy) R-134(a) compressors. Prior 30 year
history of satisfactory R-12 compressor production. Product design underway, equipment specified, but not
purchased. Firm's financial situation currently strained/undergoing restructuring. Grant award could help
compressor division, which employs 1,000 persons in a town of 12,000 inhabitants, to survive. Without grant,
or other injections of cash, the prognosis for continued operation is doubtful. Cofinancing from National Fund
for Environmental Protection and Water Management assured. Classic case of firm whose financial and
competitive positions have been prejudiced by phase-out mandate combined with initially inadequate
technological adjustment.
Issue: EDA's financial situation is difficult but is being addressed by National Investment Fund No. 2 (NIF2)
since early 1996. The OLPU and the Appraisal Mission recommend that the World Bank Management and
GEF accept the EDA sub-project for Grant-funding, and that EDA's performance be monitored and be
reviewed in early 1997. By that time, no disbursement will have materialized as yet. In the meantime, the
compressor division has been set up as a separate joint stock enterprise, the financial viability of which will be
reviewed prior to disbursement.



ANNEX I
Page 11 of 15
SUB-PROJECT 7 SUMMARY
COUNTRY:                            Poland
SUB-PROJECT TITLE / OBJECTIVE:  National CFC-12 Recovery, Recycle and Reclamation
(3 R) Network
IMPLEMENTING ENTERPRISE:            PROZON
LOCATION:                           Warsaw
SECTOR:                             Refrigeration repair and service, 3R Scheme
ODS USE IN SECTOR (tlyr):           760 t in 1994, of which 600 t CFC- 12.
PROJECT IMPACT (t/yr):               140 t
PROJECT DURATION:                   2 years start up; 10 years operation
PROJECT ECONOMIC LIFE:               10 years
SUB-PROJECT COSTS:                  Total Cost                    2,420
(OOs US$)                          Incremental Cap. Cost          982
Project Cost (Net of Savings)   2,420
GEF Funding Requested          982
FINANCING:                          PROZON: 326; SECTOR: 562; EKOFUND: 550;
(OOs US$)                          GEF: 982
COST EFFECTIVENESS
(US$/kg ODP/yr):                   7.01
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:                The World Bank
COORD. NATIONAL BODY:               Ministry of Industry and Trade until December 31, 1996,
Ministry of Economy since January 1, 1997
STAP REVIEW:                        Reviewed and approved by L. Kuijpers, reiterating need for
careful selection of training program participants
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
PROZON is a non-profit foundation which has been established as a joint venture by the two largest
refrigerant gas distribution companies in Poland, Termo Products Ltd. and Liquid Carbonics (USA). Prozon
will implement and operate this sub-project which consists of a nationwide system for collection and
processing of used refrigerants, primarily CFC-12. It is proposed to eventually equip 1600 shops with
recovery equipment, which would be 30% self-financed, and 70% grant financed. A central CFC reclaim
center, and 17 collectionldistribution depots would be established. A subcomponent, budgeted at US$250,000,



ANNEX I
Page 12 of 15
to train refrigeration servicemen in CFC-12 conservation and HFC-134a services procedures will be carried
out by the Refrigeration Center of Cracow (COCH). It is an essential element for implementation and
operation of the 3R system. The total estimated project cost is US$ 2.42 million; the total incremental cost,
which would be fully financed by the GEF grant, is US$ 982,000. The estimated annual potential recovery is
140 tons of ODS, primarily R-12.
Status: PROZON response to initial OORG comments has been re-submitted. Foundation has been
constituted legally. OLPU, in close cooperation with the former MOIT and MOEPNRF, has prepared draft
Memorandum of Understanding; PROZON has prepared details of Network/Scheme model. Initial discussions
of operational scheme had suggested a series of open questions: (i) scope and design of initial pilot scheme;
(ii) physical location/legal ownership of reclaim center and other fixed assets; (iii) regulation, certification of
participating service shops and identification of stored material, (iv) financial incentive structure, and (v) scope
of fully operational scheme. These points were discussed in detail by PROZON and the Appraisal Mission.
Financially, the two sponsoring companies of PROZON are sound.
Proposed total expenditure and grant level are based on a network involving 1600 participating shops (total
number of shops estimated at 2000, of which about 50 are "big" service shops, about 500 are estimated to be
medium sized (above 2 persons)).  A major part of the 2000 shops service household refrigerators only,
therefore handling very small volumes of refrigerant. PROZON agreed with Mission that a pilot operation
encompassing a reclaim center and 150-200 shops should be carried out to develop initial operating and
financial parameters. Cost effectiveness considerations suggest main focus during pilot phase on commercial
refrigeration service shops; with only a small sample of smaller shops to serve as a basis of comparison for
developing operating parameters. Mission convinced PROZON that the reclamation center should be part of
the pilot phase. An analysis of financial and regulatory incentive schemes to induce maximum service shop
participation in 3-R Scheme and minimize clandestine refrigerant use, demonstrates that financial incentives to
motivate service shops to send recovered ODS reclaimed to the reclamation center (rather than re-injecting
immediately without reclamation) are rather limited in effect. More important are regulations to license shops,
certifications of participating personnel, and a monitoring system of the performance of the Scheme based on
individual transaction documentation. This document is available in the project file. The OLPU has prepared a
review of tax legislation and existing and proposed regulations designed to promote participation in the
scheme.
Issues: The pilot phase design basis and scope, and development of initial operating plan preparation for
equipment procurement has been submitted by PROZON. Contractual issues related to procurement and sub-
contracting of operations by PROZON to Termo Products and Liquid Carbonics remain to be finalized.



ANNEX I
Page 13 of 15
SUB-PROJECT 8 SUMMARY
COUNTRY:                            Poland
SUB-PROJECT TITLE / OBJECTIVE:  Training in the Use of Non-Halon Alternatives for Fire Protection.
IMPLEMENTING ENTERPRISE:            State Fire Service Headquarters
LOCATION:                           Warsaw
SECTOR:                             Halon Fire Protection
ODS USE IN SECTOR (t/yr):           Consumption now negligible; stock of halons currently installed is
estimated 400 t.
PROJECT IMPACT (t/yr):              Indirect
PROJECT DURATION:                    I year
PROJECT ECONOMIC LIFE:              Not relevant
SUB-PROJECT COSTS:                  Total Cost                    120
(OOOs US$)                         Incremental Cost              120
Project Cost (Net of Savings)   120
GEF Funding Requested        IlI
FINANCING: (000s US$)               GEF: 111, State Fire Service: 9
COST EFFECTIVENESS
(US$/kg ODP/yr):                   Indirect
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:                The World Bank
COORD. NATIONAL BODY:               Ministry of Industry and Trade until December 31, 1996;
Ministry of Economy since January 1, 1997
STAP REVIEW:                        Reviewed and approved by A. Jurisson
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The project will include: i) production of a manual on non-halon fire protection alternatives; and ii) two three
day training courses (30 participants in each session) to train designers of fire protection systems, specialists in
engineering supervision, and fire fighting engineers in non-ODS alternatives to halon systems. A group of
instructors for future training will also be selected. The course curriculum is fully designed and includes halon
bank management, and design and operation of halocarbon and inert gas systems. A GEF grant of US$
1 10,000 is requested to support the program, whose total cost is US$ 120,100.
Status: Final OORG approval has been given. Program is designed. Implementation tentatively scheduled for
April/May 1997. Preliminary proposal for seminar presentation submitted by Halon Alternatives Resource
Center (HARC, USA).
Issue: Must follow Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants to Contract HARC or other seminar presenter.



ANNEX I
Page 14 of 15
SUB-COMPONENT FOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
COUNTRY:                           Poland
SUB-PROJECT TITLE / OBJECTIVE:  IDA/OLPU Institutional Strengthening for ODS Project
Implementation
IMPLEMENTING ENTERPRISE:           Industrial Development Agency (IDA);Ozone Layer
Protection Unit (OLPU).
LOCATION:                          Warsaw
SECTOR:                            Government Implementing Agencies
ODS USE IN SECTOR (t/yr):          Indirect
PROJECT IMPACT (tlyr):             Indirect
PROJECT DURATION:                  2 years
PROJECT ECONOMIC LIFE:             Not relevant
SUB-PROJECT COSTS:                 Total Cost                   75
(OOOs US$)                       Incremental Cost              75
Project Cost (Net of Savings)    75
GEF Funding Requested        75
FINANCING: (OOOs US$)              GEF Grant:                   75
COST EFFECTIVENESS
(US$/kg ODP/yr):                 Indirect
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:               The World Bank
COORD. NATIONAL BODY:              Ministry of Industry and Trade until December 31, 1996;
Ministry of Economy since January 1, 1997
STAP REVIEW:                       Not Required
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The objective of this Sub-Component is to support IDA and OLPU to implement the project. IDA will
coordinate the implementation of the Project, oversee procurement and disbursement for the investment Sub-
Projects' compliance with World Bank guidelines, and supervise project activities according to the
requirements of the World Bank and MP. As necessary, the OLPU will coordinate ODS phase-out policy and
assist in identifying technical consultants to assist in project implementation supervision, and provide support
to facilitate cooperation among government institutions and the consumers of ODS. GEF funding for this Sub-
Component will finance office equipment and computers, and support the cost of hiring consultants for
supervision and review during implementation of the investment Sub-Projects.



ANNEX I
Page 15 of 15
Status: To cover the real costs of staff inputs to carry out disbursement and other financial transactions, IDA
will receive a fee of 1.25 per cent (1.25%) of all disbursements for Sub-projects 1-8, and a budget of US$
20,000 for supervision travel expenses. A total Institutional Strengthening budget of US$75,000 includes
computers and peripherals for IDA and the OLPU, training, visits to other ODS Project units, and external
consultants. The breakdown is as follows:
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING BIJDGET
Category                                  Amount (US$)
i)  OLPU PC & Lap Top Computers, Slide Projector
and ancillary equipment.                    25,000
ii)  IDA Computer, printer, fax machine         10,000
iii) Technical/legal consultants                15,000
iv) Training/seminars/workshops                  9,000
v)  Visits to other ODS Phase Out Project Units  7,000
vi) Unallocated                                  9.000
Total                                     $ 75,000
Issues: None. Scope and Content have been agreed.
IDA Project Impleinentation Arrangements
Financial Agent Fee: The fee basis has been derived in line with IDA's true cost of fulfilling the Implementing
and Financial Agent function is (providing procurement monitoring, disbursement transactions, and maintaining
Project accounting and documentation files, with consultants carrying out implementation supervision). The
IDA operating budget for Project supervision is based on estimated real costs to IDA of carrying out the
Implementing and Financial Agent function for a two year period. The budget is estimated to be in the order of
US$70-80,000, including Project supervision travel expenses. To recuperate estimated personnel and office
expense costs as a function of expected disbursements, IDA will receive a fee of 1.25 % on all disbursements.
Additionally, a flat amount of US$20,000 will be budgeted for Project supervision related travel and lodging
expenses of IDA staff and external technical consultants. IDA will identify an acceptable commercial bank in
which to open a Project Special Account, taking account of the need to minimize expenses related to the
operation of such an account.
Draft Project Administration Agreement: A revised draft PAA has been agreed between the former MOIT,
IDA, OLPU and the Bank.
Draft Sub-Project Grant Agreements: IDA also prepared two pro-forma draft sub-project grant agreements,
one for retroactive sub-projects and one for other sub-projects. Revised drafts have been agreed among the
above parties. For those sub-projects for which prudent commercial procurement practices will be used to
procure equipment (all except PROZON), IDA's role in monitoring procurement will be strictly that of review
of the procurement selection procedure and documents for adherence with procedures, prior to authorizing
disbursement requests. The basic premise of commercial shopping is that the enterprise is better qualified to
evaluate and select process equipment quotations than is the Financial Agent. IDA will, therefore, not
participate in the evaluation or selection process of commercial procurement, but will of course advise the
Bank, if, upon documentation review, irregularities are suspected.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
POLAND
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PHASE-OUT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE AND SUPERVISION PLAN
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Planned Date of Signature                                                         April 1997
Planned Date of Effediveness:                                                      May 1997
Planned Date of Project Launch Workshop:                                           May 1997
Expectated Date of Completion                                                      June 1998
SUB-PROJECT TIMETABLES
I. Investment Com
Sub-Project 1    POLAR: Conversion from CFC-11/12 to Cyclopentane/HFC-134a at POLAR's
Refrigerator Factory and Establishment of CFC-12 Recycle Network:
Retroactive
Phase 1 - Installation of cyclopentane foam injection and refrigerant
charging lines, HFC 134a                                              1994
Phase 2 -Establishment of R-12 Recyle Network detection systems,
foaming with cyclopentane                                             1995
Sub-Project 2    ZAMEX: Conversion from CFC-1 1 to Cyclopentane of Foaming Line for
Household Freezers:
Phase 1 - Procurement and installation of high pressure foaming
injection equipment                              March 1997-December 1997
Sub-Project 3    INZYNIERA: Elimination of CFC-1 1 Foaming Agent in the Production of Rigid
Polyurethane Pipe Insulation(conversion to H20/C02):
Phase 1 - Procurement and installation of foam injection new equipment,
modification of molds                             December 1996 - June 1997
Sub-Project 4    METALPLAST: Phase-out of CFC-1 1 Blowing Agent in the Production of Thermal
Insulation Panels (Conversion to n-pentane blowing agent):
Phase 1 - Investment and installation of two high pressure foam injection
lines and other equipment. Contract signed 4/96. Installation
October 1996 - June 1997



ANNEX-I
Page 2 of 3
Sub-Project 5    POLFA SA: Conversion from CFC-1 1/12 to Hydrocarbon-based Pharmaceutical
Propellant in the manufacture of dermatologic antibiotic and corticoid drugs.
Phase 1 - Laboratory tests                           June - December 1996
Phase 2 - Building modifications for safety improvements  January - November 1997
Phase 3 - Procurement and installation of equipment  July 1997 - March 1998
Sub-Project 6    EDA SA: Retooling of Domestic Refrigeration Compressor Factory to Produce
HFC-134 a Compressors
Phase 1 - Planning                                 January - December 1996
Phase 2 - Procurement and installation           September 1996 - June 1998
II. 3R Componen
Sub-Project 7:    Establishment and Operation of a Nationwide CFC-12 Recovery, and Recycle (3 R)
Network,
Phase 1 - Preparatory Phase                           June - December 1996
Phase 2 -  Pilot Phase (Procurement of about 200 recovery units and procurement
installation, and test of recylcling machine and spectrometer)
January - July 1997
Phase 3 & 4 - Realization of remaining investments and organizing the National
ODS - Recycling Network                  July 1997 - June 1998
m. l       al Strengthening Component
Sub-Project 8    STATE FIRE SERVICE HEADQUARTERS: Training Program for Use of Non-
Halon Alternatives for Fire Protection:
First Seminar                                                   April 1997
Second Seminar                                                   May 1997
Sub-Component 9 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (IDA) and OZONE LAYER UNIT
(OLPU): Institutional Strengthening for ODS Project Implementation:
Initial Briefing:                                            February 1996
Project Appraisal:                                         April/May 1996
Prepration of Project Documents:                 May 1996 to February 1997
Project Launch Workshop:                                       March 1997
Monitoring and Assistance in Project Implementation:   February 1997 to June 1998



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
POLAND
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PHASE-OUT PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
TIMING                    ACTIVITY                   SKILL PROFLE   ESTIMATED
SW
FY97
5/97     Project Launch Mission                      Task Manager               2.0
- Review workplan and budget              Financial Analyst            2.0
- Achieve Project effectiveness
9/97     Supervision Missions (2 missions)           Task Manager     2 x 2.0   4.0
and      o IDA/OLPU Activities:                      Procurement      2 x 1.0   2.0
12/97     -Review project implementation systems   Technical Specialist  2 x 2.0   4.0
o With Companies:                             (ODS)
- Review progress in ODS phaseout
- Review ODS phaseout monitoring system
- Review safety measures
- Review training component
- Review 3R component performance
- Review status of procurement
- Review status of disbursement
FY97
4/98     Supervision Mission                         Task Manager                1.5
- Review implementation progress as above:  Technical Specialist       1.5
(ODS phaseout, training, 3R component)        (ODS)
- Review accounting, procurement and
disbursement
- Auditing
8/98     Supervision Mission                         Task Manager                2.0
- Accounting, disbursement               Technical Specialist          2.0
- Auditing                                    (ODS)
- Project impact assessment
- Preparation of ICR
Total Number of SW       21.0



IBRD 28132
-  116-  18-              ;~ L             )          22-                                I              .+ \\POLAND
'7 C = 9 RUS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIAN                                                                               Q.         I        
it>_+- Bczti c SerJ                                                                      -x                            GllolGarms RAT  L I  U A N I A  i        GEF - ODS - PHASE-OUT PROJECT
LOCATION OF SUB-PROJECTS
0                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u.  .0                                                                                                                  SU-PROJECT LOCATIONS
1SLUPSK  ''DNKE
tt   wnu-  +  '~  ~ 8  SLUPSK  v; 4;DANSK     E19                                        S-1ki                                                                I POLAR: Wr-ciow
2 . AMEX. Zaogo,
449<r,;< > >, J4 r + > S _; _ n J p v SUWALKI SA ug:slowsSN ,9 > ~ ,r   3 INZYNIERIA: Warsow ond D-knsL-woes
OLSZ'TY                                                                     A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.METALPLAST: 06arniki
<  ;   -   KOSZALNp                                                                                            VI,                                             5 POLFA, SA.: Warsaw
6. EDA, S.A.. War-a
*ZCZECit6-    )                                                                                                                                                                    7. PROZON: Warsw.
The re s $t G  ff      A     i~~'       ~       1 YD C Z                                                                                                                                      8. State Fire Service HO: Warsaw
9. MOIT, OLPU, IDA, W-ara
Re~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
EXPRESSWAYS
F _ q_ ; f CI _ > >X  f E :CIHIO W ,                                                                    O S rg THER MAIN ROADS
WiEtKO                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
Z                  O~     ~     N  -W          ALP.ME7A6hA5T     ,rWLOC      E   PLOCK                        / .                                                                             AIRPORTS
T, ;}                 t1      \ .PCt0NAN       \ .................    , nf WloclowekS, eawsk   \  <. >-  . WgSAXW. ?   <  |                               ffi r5                .1;    MAJOR PORTS
|K.ONI40   <   t  ; . .  STATE FIRE W.".:fsJeDe     NATIONAL CAPITAL
WARSAWI ! . --   -                                                                                       PROVINCE ;WOJEWODZTWO) CAPITALS
52 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5-
GOA                                                       L~AW ARIVERS
X   ESELENSA@SLEGNjCAAROCLAW   E__-=\   0   PIOTRSW- \        ~        ~                   Lob         M    -? -S CHLM   RWwOB- _._.   INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
Z                                      RADOMoh: )    > v   WALREzY:H  <   .,_  .  t   ._   :> .   rA   .   u             0        X  0         \    -4i  F SEDNRSI
EGNICA                                                                       T. R.-                                     INTERNATIO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NA BOUFEDERAIIO
C JZELECNH IAProho        6CLAW                             PIOT~<  <   ~~ r-KOWEtCE  rno >                                        z j                 esvlh D4X52    /llo  ;;ITHNLTAA
T.  GORA   SF  TRYBUNALSKI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~r~A   )
0         50        100       150        200 RILOSOETTTS            '0B-e ioa19%eSLKC                                         P1 -   '~   1      -    KAN                                         POLAND       '         v
I                                                    , I 9           _   -   fsKras0o          F r                                  1r     GERMANY    <K\
0   25      50       75      100 tALES                     Ta Getteow                     W    AC *KROSNQSCs            >_     j                                                   r        7P                     KAN
59, o.p ec p, tVCede~ by ,e Pp T ......... go UttstOl The Wetld   9,nf r ~ z } ,7f, t CA CZ . / > KROS N 8 k f \ C2RE p   A /
The bounordeve  eeIs erom 0.tso,,,elO  rwd onerhetsetlwtpoeo h_  s<,x<    _  LOVA ,.
go th.mop do no vplr. or the Fywt of The WetldeeeUtop. wrov TQtoee>    j,                                                '5 .                                                          'I.!.   SL<>AK,,REP ___ O
~,dgoeter thleaelcsolee,e,s.,,rwooerdetetrterLAR                                                                                                                           2 
eoeprewecof soeheorQdorves                                                                                                                                                _\
-5  5 A - U I22 4           SWITZ                                          RUSS AUSTRIA   HUNGARY    ROMANIA  \  ',.
1210 2996






I



IMAGiNG
Report No: 15737    15737   PoL
Type:       PD



