Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GP;? /=<3-gW
Report No. 5805-RW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
March 19, 1986
Education and Manpower Development Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT - RWANDA FRANCS (RvF)
RwF 100           =           US$ 1.093 (March 1986)
US$ 1.00          =          RwF 91.5 (March 1986)
RwF 100           =           SDR 0.946
SDR 1.00          =          RwF 105.75
SDR 1.00          =          US$ 1.15584
US$ 1.00          =           SDR 0.865
MEASURES
1 meter                      =           3.28 feet
1 kilometer                  =           0.62 mile
1 square kilometer           =           0.39 square mile
1 hectare                    =           2.47 acres
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
School Year
September to July
GLOSSARY
BPERAI           Bureau pEdagogique de I'enseignement primaire et CERAI
Curriculum Center for Primary Education and CERAI
BPES            Bureau pedagogique de l'enseignement secondaire -
Curriculum Center for Secondary Education
CERAI            Centres d'enseignement rural et artisanal integre -
Centers for Integrated Rural and Artisanal Education
ETO              Ecole technique off icielle - technical secondary school
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
ILO              International Labor Organization
IMPRESCO         Imprimerie scolaire - School Printshop
MINEPRISEC       Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
MINESUPRES       Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
MINIFIN          Ministry of Finance and Economy
MINIFOF          Ministry of Public Service and Professional Training
NBR              National Bank of Rwanda - central bank
NUR              National University of Rwanda
NVTB             National Vocational Training Board
NVTC             National Vocational Training Center
SFCS-PIU         Service de financement et des constructions scolaires -
project implementation unit
TSS              Technical Secondary School
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
UPE              Universal primary education



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A THURM EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY . ........................ ............. . (i)-(ii)
BASIC DATA ............. ..................................   (iii)
I.     SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Socio-economic Setting . ................................    1
Recent Developments and Prospects ...... ..............    2
Human Resources Development ............................   3
II.   THE EDCATION SECTOR AND MAIN ISSUES
Background     .............................................   5
The Education and Training System .................... ..   6
Recent Education Developments .... o    .....................    6
Education Finance ...... .. ....................................   9
External Aid ....     ......................................  10
Main Issues  .                  .........* *.....  11
III.  EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
Experience with Past Lending ...........................  13
Bank Group Support ............... o ..................  14
IV.   ThE PROJECT
Objectives ............................................   15
Textbook and Teaching Materials (Supply & Distribution).   16
Institutional Support (Studies/Seminars)     ...............  18
Technical Secondary School (TSS) ..    .....................  19
National Vocational Training Center (NVTC) .............  20
Technical Assistance Summary ........ o ..................  22
Female Participation in the Education System ...........  23
Population Education ...................................   23
Environmental Impact ...................................  23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Rwanda in March, 1985 and comprised Messrs. J. McCabe (Senior Education
Planner, Mission Leader), A. Colliou (Deputy Division Chief, Economist),
J.C. Laederach (Architect), H. Bartisch (Technical/Vocational Educator,
Consultants) and H. Scharrer (Textbook Specialist, Consultant).
This document has a rtred ditdbution and may be used by reopients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bsnk aLuthoriztion.



Page No.
V.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost ...........  *........* .................. .    24
Finsancing Plan ....................................         26
VI.    IMPLENTION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
Implementation ............. .............***. *..... ..    27
Procurement ......................... ********.......*0.0..   29
Disbursement ............... ................. ........     30
Auditing ..............***********............... ......     31
VII.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits ...............................................     31
Risks .................    ..                                32
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................    33
ANNEXES
Annex 1   Charts, Tables and Schedules
Chart 1 - MINEPRISEC Education System 1985
Chart 2 - Education Pyramld 1984
Chart 3 - MINEPRISEC Organization Chart
chart 4 - HINESUPRES Organization Chart
Chart 5 - MINIFOP Organization Chart
Chart 6 - Chart Showing MINIFOP/NVTC Relationship
Table 1 - Comparative Education Indicators
Table 2 - Supply of Middle Level Industrial Manpower
from Technical Secondary Schools
Table 3 - Annual Supply and Demand for Middle Level
Industrial Manpower by 1992
Table 4 - Enrollment Growth in Formal Education 1979-1984
Table 5 - Government Expenditures on Education
Table 6 - Summary of Estimated Project Costs
Schedule 1 - Technical Assistance Program
Schedule 2 - Implementation
Schedule 3 - Disbursements
Annex 2 - Textbook/Education Materials Distribution System
Annex 3 - S.elected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP - IBRD No. 19109



(i)
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Sumary
Borrower:        Rwandese Republic
Beneficiaries:   Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (MINEPRISEC)
and Ministry of the Public Service and Professional
Training (MINIFOP)
Amount:          SDR 13.5 million (US$15.6 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard IDA
Project Description:
Objectives:    The project is designed to assist the Government in its
plan to: (a) improve the quality and efficiency of its
primary and post-primary education system through: (i)
provisions for the supply and distribution of textbooks
and other teaching materials; (ii) the establishment of a
self-sustaining textbook/teaching materials replenishment
scheme; and (iii) institutional building by strengthening
the textbook management and program planning of MINEPRISEC
and MINIFOP through technical assistance; and (b)
alleviate the shortages of critically needed manpower by
provisions for: (i) a new technical secondary school (270
places); and (ii) a new national vocational training
center (120 places with 240 training stations).
Components:    (a) Textbook/teaching Materials.  Supply and distribution
of textbooks and distribution of teaching materials.
Included would be the introduction of a self-sustaining
textbook/teaching materials replenishment scheme.
(b) Technical Secondary School (TSS) and National
Vocational Training Center (NVTC). Establishment of a TSS
of 270 places to train engineering technicians and an NVTC
of 120 places with 240 training stations to train skilled
workers.
(c) Institution building. Strengthen planning, management
and training capacity in MINEPRISEC and HINIFOP through
provision for about 30 staff-years of technical assistance
and about 46 staff-years of fellowship training.



(il)
Benefits:       The project's main benefits include: (a) improving
educational quality through increasing provision of
textbooks for about one million students, providing about
20,000 sets of teaching manuals and introducing student
book-usage fees to render this service self-sustaining;
(b) increasing yearly output of much-needed engineering
technicians and skilled workers by 36 and 60, respectively
and vocational training by about 240; and (c) improving
the institutional performance of NINEPRISEC and MINIFOP.
Risks:          Two risks derive from questions on management and
implementation capacity. These would be minimized through
recruitment of experienced specialists to launch the
institutes/services concerned and the training of
Rwandese counterparts to succeed them.
Estimated Costs:
----US$ Million -
Local   Foreign   Total
(a) Textbook/Teaching Materials                   1.0      3.6       4.6
(b) Technical Secondary School                    1.8      3.5       5.3
(c) National Vocational Training Center           1.0      2.6       3.6
(d) Institutional Support                         0.3      0.9       1.2
Total Base Cost (March 1986)              4.1      10.6      14.7
Physical Contingencies                    0.3       0.6       0.9
Price Contingencies                       1.0       2.4      3.4
Total Project Cost                        5.4 a/  13.6       19.0
Financing Plan:
----US$ Million---
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                                               3.3      12.3      15.6
Government                                        2.1        -        2.1
Sub-total                                     5.4       12.3      17.7
UNDP                                               -        1.3       1.3
Total                                          5.4 a/   13.6      19.0
Estimated Disbursements
- -U~~~~S$  Million-----
IDA FY               1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Annual                1.0      4.0     5.4      3.6     1.2      0.4
Cumulative            1.0     5.0    10.4    14.0    15.2    15.6
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
a/ of which US$1.3 million in taxes and duties.



(iii)
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA 1/
POPULATION
Area                                                    26,340 km2
Population: Total                                        5.9 mlllion
Rural (Z of total)                          95%
Current growth rate p.a.                     3.7%
Density/km2 arable land                      400
GNP per capita (1983)                                 US$270
Literacy rate (Gov.t estim. 1982)                       37Z
EDUCATION
Establishments    Enrollments   Z Girls
Primary (G1-8)                        1,570            761,955        48
Post-primary (CERAI, G9-11)             304             23,474        46
Secondary (G9-14):                       73             14,761        34
General                                     (5,488)     (19)
Technical                                   (3,840)     (40)
Teacher Training                            (5,433)     (45)
University: Rwanda                        2              1,368        16
Abroad                                         600
Enrollment        Students per       Z Teachers
Ratio (Gross)        Teacber          Qualified
Primary                             65                 54 2/             59
Post-primary           )                               15                67
Secondary              )             5                 16                70
University                           0.4                5                23
EDUCATIONAL EXPENDITURES (Actual 1983)
Recurrent         Capital
(RvF million)   (RwF million)
Primary and Secondary                               3910.2            236.1
Higher                                               581.1             75.8
Total                                               4491.3            311.9
Z of Gov.t Total                                      27.4%            11.8%
Total Expenditures (Recurrent and Capital)
on Education as Z GNP                                                 3.6%
1/ 1983/1984 unless otherwise stated
2/ Average class size of about 40 because part of the teachers for G1-3
teach two shifts.



I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Socio-Economic Setting
1.01      Rwanda's salient characteristics include: (a) its small size
(26,000 km2); (b) a landlocked location (surrounded by Uganda, Tanzania,
Burundi and Zaire); (c) an annual population growth rate of 3.7 percent
(ranking among the highest in the world); (d) an extremely high population
density of 210 persons/km2 (the third highest of low income countries
following Bangladesh and Sri Lanka); (e) hilly terrain and high average
altitude; (f) lack of natural resources (including shortage of arable land
with a population density in terms of agricultural land of about 400
persons/km2); (g) underdeveloped physical and institutional
infrastructures; and (h) a very low level of development as measured by a
variety of social as well as economic indicators (per capita income of
US$270 in 1983, life expectancy at birth of 46 years and an adult literacy
rate of 37 percent). All of these factors have had an important bearing on
the country's development in the recent past, and all continue to influence
importantly Rwanda's development strategy and prospects for future growth.
1.02      Given its current rapid growth, Rwanda's population of 5.9
million in 1984 is expected to nearly double by the year 2000. This has
major implications for the country's socio-economic development. Already
over 45 percent of the population is below 15 years of age. Also, while 95
percent of the population live in rural areas engaged mainly in subsistence
agriculture, the balance between food production and population is becoming
more and more precarious. In addition, urban growth, which has averaged
around six percent per annum over the past decade, is expected to
accelerate.
1.03      Apart from a few minerals (mainly cassiterite), which account for
15 percent of exports but as little as one percent of gross domestic
product (GDP), cultivable land is the only natural resource. As a result,
agriculture plays a predominant role in the economy, contributing about
half of GDP and three-quarters of export earnings, of which coffee is by
far the most important source. Agriculture development is hampered by
scarcity of potentially arable land and decreasing productivity (as a
result of soil degradation and increased cultivation of marginal lands).
Rwanda 's manufacturing base is narrow, and growth of modern manufacturing
is limited by the small size of the market and by the lack of raw
materials, marketing facilities, entrepreneurial skills and skilled
manpower. The country's external trade is severely affected by high
transportation costs (1,700 km by road to Mombasa, the nearest port) and
dependence on neighboring countries for port facilities.
1.04      Rwanda's per capita income of about US$270 in 1983 is among the
lowest in the world, and Rwanda is classified by the United Nations as a
least-developed country. With the exception of the small modern sector,
income distribution is relatively even. It has been estimated 1t that
within the rural sector (accounting for 95 percent of the population and
with family farms of average size one hectare) between the tenth and
1/ Agricultural Sector Review, World Bank Report No. 1377-RW, June 1977,
p.5



- 2 -
ninety-fifth percentile groups. income ratios are about three to five,
compared to ratios of about ten to one in many other African countries.
The fact is that the vast majority of Rwandese live at or below the poverty
level. Health conditions are also very poor as illustrated by the
following indicators: a crude death rate of 20 per thousand population; an
infant mortality rate of 22 percent, and ratios of over 31,000 persons per
physician and nearly 10,000 per nurse. As a result of a shift to
high-yield but low-protein crops, there has also been an increase in
malnutrition.
Recent Developments and Prospects
1.05      Despite these adverse structural characteristics, Rwanda has
attempted with a large measure of success to satisfy its subsistence needs
and to make important advances in agriculture, education, health and
small-scale industry. These achievements have been facilitated by the
cultural and social cohesion of its people, political stability, and
overall sound economic management. During the period of 1977-82, the rate
of growth of GDP, in real terms, averaged about five percent per annum,
reflecting sustained good performance by most sectors (except those engaged
in production for export); this achievement was in part attributable to
favorable external factors (good weather and favorable terms of trade).
Since 1982, and closely related to the advent of international recession,
economic growth has slowed down (to less than three percent per annum) and
the fiscal situation has deteriorated. While the budget surpluses incurred
during 1978-80 averaged 6 percent of GDP (partly due to high coffee prices
and related high revenues), sharp declines in revenues from coffee export
taxes, together with increases in current outlays (especially general wage
increase granted in September 1980 and introduction of the 1977 education
reform) have led to overall budgetary deficits equivalent to two percent of
GDP in both 1982 and 1983.
1.06      In the Third Development Plan 1982-86, the Government has stated
four priority objectives for economic and social development: (a)
satisfying the population's food needs; (b) improving utilization of human
resources through increased employment and more relevant
education/training; (c) increasing living standards by more widespread
access to improved health care and social services; and (d) improving
Rwanda's external position through better transport links and measures to
strengthen the balance-of-payments. In addition, to these objectives,
which had already been identified in the Second Development Plan 1977-81,
the Third Development Plan reflects positive changes in Government's
demographic policy which advanced from an analysis of the problem to the
development of specific objectives.
1.07      Some progress has been achieved in the implementation of the
objectives of the Third Development Plan. While data are rather
unreliable, there is evidence that in the last two years, total food
production grew, on average, by about three percent annually. The
Goverment has also succeeded in expanding the education system and in
investing in transport links. Also, relatively large amounts of external
aid have been mobilized. The success of Government efforts in pursuing the
Plan's object'ves has however, been limited by the country's structural
constraints (para. 1.01), lack of skilled personnel and insufficiency of
domestic financial resources.



- 3 -
1.08      In the face of severe structural and financial constraints, the
growth of GDP in the next few years is expected at best to be barely above
that of population. As Rwanda in the near term cannot diversify its
traditional exports, which are facing unfavorable price prospects, imports
might have to be curtailed. At the same time, as the Government depends
upon foreign trade taxation for half its revenues, the growing imbalance
between Government revenues and expenditures is bound to be accentuated.
This, in turn might force the reduction of current expenditures. While
short-term actions will have to be taken to resolve those imbalances, the
three priority tasks for Rwanda will remain to increase agricultural
productivity, contain population growth and develop human resources at the
maximum pace permitted by physical and financial constraints.
Human Resources Development
1.09      Given the lack of natural resources, the current scarcity of
qualified personnel, high illiteracy rate and poor health conditions
(para. 1.04), the development of human resources remains key to the
socio-economic development of Rwanda. The Government, recognizing this,
has expanded gradually its expenditures in education, which reached a
relatively high level of 28 percent of total Government current
expenditures in 1984. Significant efforts have also been made through
investment projects. Investment expenditures in education peaked at a
level of about 20 percent of total Government capital expenditures in
1980. Though that rroportion has declined to a level of about eight
percent in 1984, the total external aid allocated to on-going education
projects (which is not included in the Government's capital budget) has
remained important: it amounted to about US$80 million equivalent in early
1985 lnd another US$50 million was being considered for future education
projects.
1.10      On-going investments are in line with the overall priorities of
the Third Development Plan (para. 1.06). First, most of them aim at
alleviating the shortages of trained personnel, which constitute one of the
most serious constraints to socio-economic development. Second, by
increasing general participation in education (in particular, for women),
they represent the mDst effective action towards containing rapid
population growth. Third, by raising the level of education of future
farmers, they are bound to increase agricultural productivity. The last
two linkages have been amply demonstrated through experience in other
countries.
1.11      Reliable, up-to-date information on human resources in Rwanda is
not available and statistics on the labor force and employment are not
regularly collected. The most recent data were collected in 1981 by an
International Labor Organization (ILO) mission in Rwanda, and published in
a 1984 report.2/ The preliminary results of this study have been
incorporated in the Third Plan. Ft-am the 1978 census, it is estimated that
93 percent of a total labor force of 2.7 million people are employed in the
agricultural sector, with only three percent in industry and four percent
2/  'Le Defi de l'Emploi pour le Rwanda, ILO, 1984
(The Employment Challenge for Rwanda)



in services. The projections made in the Third Development Plan based on
the dynamics of population growth show a net addition yearly of 44,000
persons to the labor force; the Plan proposes to meet this increase through
the annual increase of 27,000 additional jobs in agriculture and 17,000 in
the non-agricultural sector (13,000 in the modern sector and 4,000 on
partial employment). However, with a current underemployment rate
estimated at 30 percent, the agricultural sector can hardly be expected to
effectively absorb such large numbers; the labor absorption capacity of the
modern sector is also limited (a total of only 25,000 jobs were created
from 1977 to 19Z1).  This highlights the need for agricultural
intensification and labor-intensive small-scale industrialization as well
as urgent efforts on containment of population growth.
1.12      Despite this labor surplus, there will continue to be in the
medium-term, a shortage of skilled labor. The Third Plan anticipated
yearly shortages of 160 professionals and higher technicians (400 required
as against 240 output) and over 2,000 middle-level technicians and skilled
workers (3,400 required as against 1,400 output). Given the lack of data
on the manpower demand side, these figures indicate only an order of
magnitude of the skill gaps. Much more detailed analysis is necessary to
define training needs. To that effect the Bank Group in its sector work
program, is undertaking a -specialized training need study; this study,
which started in June 1985 and to be completed in early 1986, should shed
light on the relationship between manpower needs and training output in the
country. In addition, the proposed project will strengthen the MINIFOP
(para. 4.17) through provision of technical assistance; in particular, this
assistance should enable the Government to better formulate and implement
its manpower training policies.
1.13      Until more precise information is collected and analyzed, the
Government is correctly addressing the most obvious skill shortages which
are at the levels of middle technicians (A2) and skilled craftsmen (A3).
The proposed project would help reduce the gap between supply and demand of
such skills related to industrial manpower. Annex 1, T-2 gives a breakdown
of the supply of middle-level industrial manpower from existing and
proposed technical secondary schools (including the proposed Kibuye
Technical School to be established under the project), while Annex 1, T-3
compares supply (including also the Kigali Vocational Training Center
proposed under the project) and demand by 1992 under four scenarios
(combination of low and high estimates for both supply and demand).   It
appears that even in one of the extreme scenarios (high estimate for supply
of trainees and low estimate for manpower demand), there will remain
shortages at A2 levels and near equilibrium at A3 levels (in fact a very
slight surplus estimated at five percent of the needs). This analysis is
quite conservative as it also assumes that all graduates of technical
schools will enter the job market directl1; in reality, a significant
number might continue their studies to the University level. In the case
of the other extreme scenario (low estimate for supply and high estimate
for demand), the supply of A2 would be one third of the needs and that of
A3 less than half of the needs. As to quality considerations, the present
situation for middle-level industrial many-wer is characterized by: (a)
frequent occurrence of substitution by lowe-; qualification levels; (b)
generally unsatisfactory level of occupational competence due to a lack of
upgrading training facilities; and (c) supply by existing training
inetitutions of a limited and rather traditional range of specializations.



- 5 -
1.14      The curricula of both the Kibuye Technical School and the Kigali
Vocational Training Center have also been designed to meet some of the most
pressing needs within the A2 and A3 levels. The Kibuye Technical School
will in particular offer training in new, but urgently needed
specializations such as heavy duty mechanics and plant installation
maintenance and repair. The Kigali Vocational Training Center on the other
hand will contribute to a continuous upgrading of the existing work force
and its programs will be prepared in close collaboration with the main
users, particularly industrial employers.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND MAIN ISSUES
Background
2.01      To redress the mismatch between the Rwandese education and
training system and perceived national needs, major reforms included in the
Second Development Plan 1977-1981 were implemented in 1979. These reforms
had three basic objectives: (a) primary curricula reform emphasizing
rural/agricultural needs; (b) diversification from academic secondary
education; and (c) orientation of higher education towards developmental
priorities, including agriculture. Significant structural changes were
made in primary and secondary education (Annex 1, C-1 and C-2 show the
structure of the education system and the education pyramid). Changes
included prolongation of primary education from 6 to 8 years for the 7-14
years' age group with practical subjects' introduction in grades 7-8 in
workshop extensions to be built at schools; (b) orientation of 90 percent
primary leavers to CERAI (Centres d'Enseignement Rural et Artisanal
Integre) of which about 1,300 were planned for pre-vocational training in
grades 9-11; and (c) orientation of 10 percent primary leavers to reformed
secondary schools grades 9-14. It was also decided to terminate
double-shift in primary schools and universal primary education (UPE) was
targeted for 1986.
2.02      Enrollment and construction targets proved far too ambitious for
the available financial resources, teachers and construction capacity. 3/
However, through commendable community efforts (with support under Credit
567-RI) about 960 workshops were added at primary schools though only 200
CERAI were built. With French support for the BPERAI (Bureau Pfdagogique
de 1'Enseignement Primaire et CERAI) and Belgian support for the BPES
(Bureau P&dpgogique de l'Enseignement Secondaire) reformed curricula have
been practically completed. But introduction of these curricula in schools
has been hampered, mainly by shortage of qualified teachers and textbooks,
estimated to average one set per eight students. The Agriculture Faculty
of the National University of Rwanda (NUR) was developed with Canadian
assistance but enrollments therein comprise only 10 percent of NUR
students. Following the Second Plan experience, the Government (while
retaining basic educational objectives) lowered targets in the Third Plan
3/ It is now clear that with present population increase and continuing
financial constraints, universal primary education may not be achieved
before the end of the century.



- 6 -
1982-1986 to eight percent yearly growtk in primary enrollments,provision
of two CERAI per commune and secondary enrollment increase limited to six
percent yearly. The double-shift system in primary education was retained
and reduction of the illiteracy rate from 63 to 59 percent was also
targeted.
The Education and Training System
2.03      Since 1981, two ministries have responsibility for education
(Annex 1, C-3, C-4) - the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
(MINEPRISEC) and the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
(MINESUPRES). The MINEPRISEC delegates authority to the Inspecteur
d'Arrondissement in each of the 10 arrondissements (prefectures), from
where school inspection is coordinated. Burgomasters of the 143 communes
lead community efforts in school building and maintenance. From modern
offices in Kigali, about 1,200 MINEPRISEC personnel administer: (a) about
1,600 primary schools, 300 CERAI and over 70 secondary schools; (b) BPERAI
and BPES in separate new buildings in the capital; and (c) the SFCS
(Service de Financement et des Constructions Scolaires) and IMkEESCO
(Imprimerie Scolaire - School Printshop), both built with support under the
First Education Project (Credit 567-RW). Technical assistance mainly for
curriculum development and educational planning is provided by about 50
expatriates. Significant cost increases (especially for administration)
have occurred since the establishment of the NUR second campus, due mainly
to large diseconomies of scale and administrative duplication. There are
indications in both ministries of over-staffing and under-management. To
replace expatriates, training in educational planning and administration is
necessary and being provided by UNDP/UNESCO, and gradual modernization of
office technology is required as manual operations in accounting and
administration of examinations, information and inventories systems are
outdated.
Recent Education Developments
2.04      Enrollment growth has continued during 1979-1984 (Annex 1, T-4).
However, while primary school enrollment (G1-8) increased by an average
eight percent yearly to 762,000, representing 65 percent of the 7-14 years
age-group, the admission rate has slowed down. Second-level enrollments
(G9-14) also increased by eight percent yearly to 38,200 representing five
percent of the 15-20 years age-group, though CERAI (G9-11, pre-vocational)
advanced more rapidly at 15 percent yearly as against only one percent
yearly for academic secondary (G9-14). 4/ Enrollments in the NUR
increased by seven percent yearly to 1,400 students.  A closer look is now
taken at equity, efficiency and quality at this time for the different
levels.
2.05      Primary Education.  Enrollment ratios are fairly even among the
10 prefectures, though Kibuye (near Lake Kivu) leads at close to 70 percent
and Byumba (north-east) trails at short of 60 percent of the age-group.
Over 48 percent of students are female. Women represent over 40 percent of
teaching staff and the student/teacher ratio is about 54 (class size is
about 40 because some teachers teach two shifts). Attrition and repetition
4/ Reduction from 7 to 6 years' secondary education which was introduced
under the reform has influenced slower growth.



rates are very high, averaging about 12 and 14 percent, respectively.
Quality is considered low and is mainly attributed to: (a) 41 percent of
teachers unqualified; (b) only 12 percent textbook provision (one set per
eight students); (c) double-shift system in grades 1-3; and (d) nutritional
problems of students. In addition, teaching of workshop subjects in grades
7-8 is generally weak. Admission rate to secondary education for 1984/1985
was about nine percent.
2.06      CERAI. These three-year pre-vocational schools (all
day-students) officially combined in 1982 with the church-related girls'
schools (Sections Familiales) are beWag developed for equitable
distribution among the communes. Girls represent 46 percent of
enrollments. Attrition and repetition rates are about one and five
percent, respectively. Quality of education is mixed. While buildings and
furniture are adequate, lack of equipment and especially textbooks (one set
per %Aght students), has a deleterious effect on quality. Student/teacher
ratio remains rather low at 15 to one as school size is small; 67 percent
of staff are qualified. While the main objective of the CERAI is training
for employment in the local milieu, lack of such employment opportunities
is becoming a problem.
2.07      Secondary Education.  The 73 mainly church-related secondary
schools (all boarding: 64 public and nine private) are also small, with
average enrollment below 200. They are not equitably distributed and
selection made nationwide is frequently faulted as being neither
sufficiently merit-based nor geared to fit aptitude to available school
courses. Gisenyi (north-west) and Byumba (north-east) have highest and
least participation, respectively. Schools have different curricula biases
and overall, students take general, primary teacher training and technical
courses (including agriculture, commerce, nursing, etc.) in the proportion
37, 37 and 26 percent, respectively and 34 percent of students are girls.
Attrition rate is even through the cycle at about five percent p.a. while
repetition rate declines from about eight percent in the first to three
percent in the sixth year. Quality is also mixed. Teachers (75 percent
Rwandese) are almost 70 percent qualified and student/teacher ratio is low
at 16. There are weaknesses in teaching of science and technical subjects
for lack of qualified teachers. In addition, students are weak in French
(used for teaching most subjects).
2.08      Technical/vocational and Non-formal Education.  Introduction of
practical subjects in primary G7-8, establishment of the CERAI and
diversification of academic secondary schools are all meant to generally
orient the system towards technical/vocational education. Secondary
schools mentioned above include main biases: agriculture (including
veterinary science and forestry), commerce, nursing, primary teachers and
technical education. However, the MINEPRISEC runs only two technical
secondary schools - the ETO (Ecole Technique Officielle) Kicukiro in Kigali
(450 places) for A2-level industrial training and Save near Butare (230
places) for A3-level training. Because of acute shortages of A2 industrial
technicians (para. 1.13, 4.11), the MINEPRISEC plans development of
technical secondary education, including establishment of a school at
Kibuye with assistance under this proposed Third Education Project.



-8-
Attrition and repetition In the techalcal schools are very high, mainly due
to selection and French language weaknesses, and shortage of qualified
teachers. About half the teachers in technical schools are Rwandese and
the student/teacher ratio is 12 to one. Technical teacher training is
provided in an ad hoc fashion at the Kicukiro school but a comprehensive
analysis of future training needs is now being undertaken by the
Government. There is also insufficient consultation/coordination among the
supplier and user ministries and the labor market generally, and the range
of training for trades is too narrow.
2.09      Other ministries provide more specific training such as: the
MINIFOP (Annex 1, C-5) training in administration and commerce skills, the
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications training for postal/communication
services, the Ministry of Public Works and Urban Affairs maintenance
training, and the Ministry of Youth and Sport vocational training in 36
Youth Training Centers. There are also other numerous training activities
ranging from formal to non-formal including those of: the Ministry of
Agriculture extension services, the Ministry of Health training in about 90
Health Centers, and the Electrogaz Agency supported nutrition training.
Vocational and home-making training are provided by many church-related
agencies. Functional training is given in 184 Literacy Training Centers
and a Kigali correspondence school (INADES) emphasizing rural/agricultural
development enrolls over 2,000 students. Nevertheless, vocational training
lacks adequate coordination at the national level. For this reason,
vocational/professional training has been added recently to the
responsibilities of MINIFOP and under this proposed Third Education
Project, institution building would be strengthened within the ministry and
a National Vocational Training Center would be established in Kigali to
provide much needed skilled workers (paras. 1.13, 4.14).
2.10      Higher Education.  In addition to the NUR campuses at Butare (930
students) and Ruhengeri (440 students), a new Adventist University (not
state aided-70 students) opened in Gisenyi in October 1984. 5/ Over 600
students (about 40 percent of total) also study abroad mainly in the USSR,
Belgium, France and the Federal Republic of Germany. The NUR (including
both campuses) has 10 faculties with approximate enrollment percentages:
commerce 21, arts 17, medicine 12, agriculture 10, science 9, law 9,
education 9, engineering 5, applied sciences 5, and pharmacy 3. Girls
comprise 16 percent of NUR students. The student/teacher ratio is very low
at five to one and about 60 percent of teaching staff are Rwandese.
2.11      The NUR has serious pedagogical and economic problems.  Average
attrition rate of 25 percent is much higher in the first year and affects
especially the science and commerce faculties throughout. Main causes
include: (a) mismatch between secondary school curricula and NIJR programs;
(b) weak selection and orientation of students; and (c) weaknesses in the
studies programming and teaching. 6/ Unit recurrent costs are very high
5/  Higher education is also provided in the Military College, Nyakibanda
Seminary and Kigali Statistics Institute (IAMSEA) for about 100, 140
and 10 students, respectively.
6/  PNUD (UNDP).  Universite et Developpement au Rwanda: Elements pour
servir A l'6valuation, la reforme et la planification de l'enseignement
sup$rieur au Rwanda (Le Thanh Khoi, septembre 1984).



- 9 -
(US$5,000) due mainly to diseconomies of small scale campuses, together
with high administration and boarding costs and low student/teacher ratio.
UNDP is financing a study which will review the efficiency and
effectiveness, inter alia, of NUR (para. 2.19).
Education Finance
2.12      Details of Government expenditures on education are given in
tables in Annex 1, T-5. Total recurrent expenditures for education (Annex
1, T-5(a)), increased in current terms at an average annual rate of 20
percent between 1979 and 1983, or over 10 percent in real terms (inflation
averaging less than 10 percent annually over the same period). 7/ As a
result, the share of education in the Government recurrent budget increased
from less than 24 percent in 1979 to a level of over 27 percent in 1983 and
this, despite a significant increase in real terms in Government
expenditures (about five percent per year). In 1984, preliminary estimates
indicate a further increase to 28 percent. This high share reflects the
priority attached by the Government to the development of human resources.
It is projected to further increase to 31 percent in 1990 and 34 percent in
1995 (see assumptions in Annex 1, T-5(b)); however, some of these
assumptions should be assessed in the forthcoming report of September 1985
economic mission, and it is likely that the projected share of education
would remain below 30 percent.
2.13     Over the last five years (Annex 1, T-5(c)), the distribution of
recurrent expenditures between primary/post-primary (CERAI), secondary and
higher education has remained nearly constant and averaged 70 percent, 16
percent and 14 percent respectively. On the other hand, the structure of
expenditures within primary/post-primary education indicates a major and
worrisome decline in the share allocated to teaching materials and
maintenance (from 14 percent in 1981 to three percent in 1984) as a result
of severe overall budget cuts and increased expenditures on teachers and
schools administration (with their share rising from 77 percent in 1981 to
90 percent in 1984). In contrast, the structure of expenditures in both
secondary and higher education has rpmained rather constant and marked by
relatively high share constituted by administration/boarding for secondary
schools (37 percent of total expenditures on secondary education in 1984)
and scholarships for higher education (31 percent of total expenditures on
higher education in 1984). Unit recurrent costs per student in 1983 were:
US$43 in primary/post-primary, US$700 in secondary and US$5,000 in higher
education. By African standards, these unit costs are relatively low in
primary but relatively high in secondary and higher education, due
especially to low student/teacher ratios and high boarding costs.
2.14      Also linked with the increasingly difficult budgetary situation,
the Government has significantly reduced its capital expenditures on
education, from a level of RwF 410 million iD 1980 to RwF 300 million in
1984, while the share of education in the Government capital expenditures
7/ Inflation averaged 10.6 percent per annum during 1977-82, with a peak
of 15.8 percent in 1979; in 1983, inflation was down to 6.5 percent.



- 10 -
also declined from over 20 percent in 1980 to less than nine percent in
1984. It should be noted however, that these figures do not include
external aid.
2.15      The problems related to the financing of education will remain at
the center of the Bank Group sectoral dialogue with the Government. A
recent striking development is that following a rapid increase from 1979 to
1981, Government expenditures as well as education expenditures have
stagnated in current terms since 1981 (Annex 1, T-5(a)) clearly indicating
a decline in real terms. The rapid growth of expenditures from 1979 to
1981 was mainly due to a large increase in teachers' salaries. Some
further adjustment in teachers' salaries are currently being considered by
Government. Given the poor prospects for improvement in the Government's
financial situation (para. 1.08), ways will have to be found to reduce unit
costs and expand cost sharing arrangements in order to allow continued
growth in enrollment ratios in primary education. In this connection, it
is expected that with financing from the ongoing Second IDA Education
Project (Credit 1263-RW), the Government will undertake shortly an
optimization study of resource uses in the primary sector, Jhich will
continue absorbing over 70 percent of the total resources allocated to
education. More generally, the Government will have to introduce
cost-sharing schemes at all levels of education, including boarding
students in secondary and higher education. Given the poverty level of the
country, these measures can be introduced only gradually. The proposed
project will serve as a vehicle to introduce a nation-wide cost recovery
scheme for textbooks/teaching materials (see paras. 4.04-4.05).
External Aid
2.16      Rwanda benefits from very significant external aid for its
development, estimated in 1983 at US$248 million (about US$45 per capita)
for technical assistance (36%) and capital aid (64%). 8/ The education
sector is estimated to receive US$80 million external aid in 1985 with
another US$50 million under consideration for future projects. The main
sources of aid for education were: the Federal Republic of Germany, World
Bank Group, Belgium, African Development Bank, EEC, France, Switzerland and
Canada. There is a substantial flow of Non-Governmental Organization (NGO)
contributions (recently estimated at over US$20.0 million yearly) largely
sponsored by religious organizations to support a close-knit fabric of
local organizations, and a good proportion of this aid goes to education.
External aid covers a wide range of activities at all educational levels,
including fellowship training in educational planning/management,
curriculum development, teaching and adult education, together with support
for construction and equipment at all levels. Coordination of external aid
and ensuring its most productive use are necessary to resolve differences
between the Government and aid agencies on issues of policy and
management. However, donors are developing their own system of exchange
and complementarity and an Aid Coordination Group was established about a
8/ UNDP. Rapport annuel pour 1983 sur l'assistanra au developpement;
Rwanda 1984.



- 11 -
year ago in Kigali (para. 3.05). The most Important aid agencies indicate
that the high level of external aid received over recent years may not be
maintained. A Donor Conference is being planned for end 1987 with UNDP
assistance.
Main Issues
2.17      The Government must face the following issues and constraints by
strategic planning and implementing action programs designed to optimize
use of resources: (a) alignment of policy objectives and targets to
financial capacity; (b) rigorous application of cost control; (c) gearing
training programs to the needs for priority economic and social development
and job opportunities; (d) improvement of internal efficiency, quality and
equity as far as financially feasible; (e) modernization of administrative
skills and office technology; and (f) coordination of programs to improve
literacy. In particular, the problem must be faced of mollifying the
detrimental effect on educational development of a likely decline in yearly
growth of total real Government expenditures and possible stagnation of the
education budget in real teirms.
2.18      Policy Objectives.  Progress is being made in our ongoing
dialogue on two major questions which derive from the Government's
objectives and policies and comprise: (a) prolongation of primary education
from six to eight years; and (b) premature division of the NUR into two
campuses. Both have pedagogical and economic shortcomings. To alleviate
burgeoning social demand for education and render programs more relevant to
Job opportunities, primary Gl-3 double-shifting and G7-8 courses with
practical emphasis were introduced. Double-shifting in Gl-3 (which
educators consider the most crucial years), especially with the high
proportion of unqualified teachers and dire textbook shortages, is
considered to have a deleterious effect on quality. In addition, teaching
of practical subjects in G7-8 is weak for lack of qualified teachers and
overall motivation. With continued financial constraints and rapid
population growth likely, an alternative approach which seems pedagogically
and economically feasible, was defined in a Bank Group Education Sector
Memorandum (ESM) presented to the Government in February 1985. 9/ The
proposal would shorten primary education to Gl-7 and gradually phase out
double-shifting. The Government has provided to the Bank Group comments on
this ESM and during negotiations, the Government provided assurances that
an evaluation of progress in achieving an agreed action program for
improvement of quality and cost-effectiveness would be provided for Bank
Group staff review by not later than July 31 each year (para. 8.01(a)).
2.19      Problems emerging from division of the NUR into two campuses
(outlined in para. 2.11) have been discussed in ongoing dialogue with the
Government when it was emphasized that a comprehensive analysis is
necessary as a prerequisite to cost-effective development of the system.
At Government request, terms of reference were prepared by the Bank Group
and an analysis is now being undertaken with UNDP support. It is expected
that results of this analysis will be discussed with the Bank Group.
9/ IBRD. Republic of Rwanda Education Sector Memorandum, June, 1985.



- 12 -
2.20      Cost Control.  As seen above, costs are especially high by
African standards for second- and third-level education and there is a very
heavy dependence on external aid. To enhance cost control measures, the
following Government actions are first required: (a) preparation/transla-
tion of a three-year "rolling" public investment budget for the education
sector into detailed, feasible action program related to recurrent budget
constraints and implementation capacities; (b) quantification and
coordination of all external aid to ensure appropriateness, complementarity
and efficient use of funds; and (c) political commitment to most
cost-effective approaches and maximum cooperation between supplier and user
ministries on education and training aspects. Cost control measures should
include: (a) increasing students per teacher from 15 and 16 in the CERAI
and secondary schools respectively, using a classroom rotation system,
co-education, increasing school size and increasing the proportion of day
students in secondary schools; (b) increasing the NUR student/teacher ratio
from five to one and reducing boarding and administration costs; (c)
introducing cost-sharing schemes at all levels; and (d) promoting
participation of non-government organizations in financing education,
especially secondary eaucation.
2.21      Relevance and Job Opportunities.  The problem of lack of job
opportunuties for school leavers is likely to become more acute (para.
1.11). Increased emphasis on development of technical/vocational education
is expected to alleviate this problem through increased relevance of
training to job opportunities. In this regard the following actions should
be taken: (a) planning/implementation of a comprehensive sub-system of
technical/vocational education (including an appropriate technical teacher
training system) geared to manpower needs and job opportunities; (b)
upgrading existing training facilities; (c) broadening the range of
training in technical secondary schools; (d) provision for training of
higher technicians; and (e) institution building in the MINIFOP for
planning/implementation of the required vocational training.
2.22      Internal Efficiency, Quality and Equity.  Serious shortcomings
under these headings have been noted earlier. To avoid further
deterioration, priority should be given to the following actions: (a)
increasing the proportion of qualified teachers 4n lower primary education,
reinforcing the inspection system, improving educa-tional management, and
increasing provision of textbooks/education materials; (b) improving
selection based on merit and aptitude for admission to secondary and higher
education; and (c) reducing very high attrition rates in the NUR.
2.23      Modernization of Administration and Office Technology.  As seen
in para. 2.03, there are shortcomings in the MINEPRISEC concerning over
centralization, limited management skills and outmoded office practices.
To ameliorate this situation, required actions include: (a) delegation of
authority within the ministry headquarters; (b) training in educational



- 13 -
planning, management and pedagogy to reduce dependence on expatriates; 10/
and (c) modernization of office technology through gradual introduction of
appropriate cor'uterization, especially of the financial accounting,
examination, information and inventories systems.
2.24      Coordination of Literacy Programs.  Despite the numerous agencies
involved in literacy training, lack of coordlnation hinders solid progress
from the current 63 percent illiteracy rate. Evaluation of the present
multi-faceted approach is due and preparation of a cost-effective strategy
for literacy development, including especially, coordination of efforts
should be undertaken.
III. EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
Experience with Past Lending
3.01      The Bank Group has supported Rwanda's education sector through
two education projects, emphasizing primary and secondary education
development, respectively. The First Education Project (Credit 567-RW for
US$8.0 millipn) 11/ was approved in June 1975 and closed in December 1983,
an 18 months  deiay beyond the original Closing Date.  Following earlier
delays due to project complexity, poor accounting and unfamiliarity of the
concerned authorities with Bank Group procedures, the project was finally
well executed and a commendable community effort was made in implementation
of school workshops. The project supported the improvement of
quality of primary education and its relevance to job opportunities, and
institution building for project implementation through: (a) addition of
workshops for practical training in upper grades at 250 rural primary
schools, re-training in these subjects for teachers and provision of a
printshop for production of textbooks and teacher guides; and (b)
establishment of a project implementation unit to provide architectural
services for the MINEPRISEC together with project management capacity.
Preliminary findings of a Project Completion Report (PCR) noted ineffective
teacher training, weak management of the School Printshop and
unsatisfactory textbook distribution.
3.02      The Second Education Project (Credit 1263-RW for SDR 9.0
million - US$10.0 million equivalent) approved in June 1982 supports
commerce, nursing and primary teacher training in secondary schools to meet
acute shortages of personnel in these fields together with institution
building on the quality/pedagogical side through technical assistance for
improved training standards, more relevant curricula, and on the
administrative side for project execution. It is expected especially that
Rwandese capacity for accounting/financial analysis will be built up
through support of commerce/economics training by other planned similar
training at secondary level and thus enhance training standards in higher
education by providing sufficient well prepared students. A slight initial
delay due to late recruitment of required technical assistance specialists
10/ Fellowship training in educational planning and administration is
supported by UNDP/UNESCO and curriculum development training is
supported through Belgian and French cooperation.
11/ Of this amount US$1.6 million was cancelled in 1978 due to
misprocurement.



- 14 -
has been overcome and project implementation is on schedule and progressing
satisfactorily. All covenants in the Development Credit Agreement are
being met.
3.03      Preliminary findings of the PCR for the First Education Project
indicate reasonable success in the provision of buildings and equipment,
establishment of project implementation and textbook printing capacity.
However, teaching of practical subjects in the workshops provided is not
yet satisfactory, apparently due to ineffective teacher training. In
addition, management of the school printshop has been weak and satisfactory
textbook distribution has not been achieved due to lack of storage space
and consistent financial support.  However, lessons learned by both the
Government and the Bank Group from the First project experience are already
being applied with good results in the Second project.  Clearly, more
compact projects (such as the Second project), having lesser items less
widely scattered which are more readily monitored by both parties, are more
appropriate for Rwanda at present. The concerned authorities have gained
valuable experience with Bank Group administrative and procurement
procedures and their ianagement has considerably improved. Nevertheless,
it is necessary to ensure that the minimum required technical assistance
specialists, especially in architectural services, accounting and
procurement, are in place at the start of each project. The Government has
shown itself amenable to continuous, candid dialogue on sector development
and project management problems, leading to a good modus operandi with Bank
Group on these matters.
Bank Group Support
3.04      Overall strategy should take account of the major problems of
severe financial constraints and rapid population growth, emphasizing the
most efficient use of funds to enable increased participation, improved
quality and meeting the needs of economic development. Bank Group support
should be geared accordingly, to meet the priority problems summarized in
paras. 2.17 to 2.24, while complementing assistance given by multilateral
and bilateral agencies. Dialogue should thus be continued with the
Government on: (a) further modification of HINEPRISEC and NINESUPRES
education reform objectives and expansion to take account of ongoing severe
financial constraints and rapid population growth, and strike a realistic
balance among political, economic, pedagogical and equity goals; (b)
improvement of internal (system flow) and external (curricula relevance to
job opportunities) efficiencies; (c) amelioration of quality and cost
control, and introduction of cost sharing schemes; (d) planning and
implementing of a comprehensive development of technical education and
vocational training, including a system of technical/vocational teacher
training; (e) rational development of higher education based upon thorough
sub-sector analysis and including higher technician training; (f) planning
and coordination of literacy programs; (g) improved planning/consultation
between supplier and user ministries; (h) increased involvement of
non-Government and private agencies in educational development; and (i)
improved overall educational management and institution building. As their
high level of aid (over 20 percent of total educational expenditure) is
unlikely to be maintained, continuous dialogue with other external aid



- 15 -
agencies vill be necessary, not only to ensure complementarity and learn
from their experiences, but also to coordinate efforts towards the most
appropriate and efficient use of funds. Bank Group support should also
help to gear education and training programs to the needs for priority
economic and social development as elucidated in justified priorities
included in Rwanda's National Development Plans and recomended in the Bank
Group's current Country Economic Memorandum.
3.05      Good progress is being made in dialogue and coordination of aid
efforts among the Government, aid donors and the Bank Group. The basic
objective of Bank Group staff to pursue continuous exchange on required
sector work, ongoing project implementation and future aid possibilities
are enhanced by establishment of the Aid Coordination Group mentioned
earlier, comprising Ambassadors/delegates of countries represented in
Rwanda together with the Resident Representatives of the UNDP and Bank
Group staff. UNDP undertakes overall organization of monthly meetings of
the group at which aid coordination is discussed. Staff of the Bank Group
presented the findings of the January, 1985 Education Sector Memorandum to
the February 1985 meeting of the Group.
3.06      Clearly, all the identified deficiencies of the education sector
could not be addressed in the Third Education Project. Based upon
Government priorities, complementarity with aid donors, status of
preparation of items concerned and conformity with Bank Group strategy for
educational development, this project would support Improved quality in
primary and post-primary education and the development of
technical/vocational education. The Government's commitment to taking
priority action to meet the detrimental effect on quality of serious lack
of textbooks and its preparedness to introduce a cost-sharing,
self-sustaining replenishment scheme through student fees, deserves IDA
support. Similarly, its commitment to developing technical/vocational
education at this time is opportune, not only because of acute manpower
shortages, but also for timely development of planning and training
expertise in this sub-sector.  In addition to the Second Education Project
which addresses teacher and other manpower shortages, other aid agencies
(para. 2.16) are supporting (or planning to support) the Government in
meeting other identified deficiencies.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The project is designed to assist the Government in its plan to:
(a) improve the quality and efficiency of its primary and post-primary
education system through: (i) provisions for the supply and distribution of
textbooks and other teaching materials; (ii) the establishment of a
self-sustaining textbook and teaching manuals replenishment scheme; and
(iii) institutional building by strengthening textbook management and
training MINEPRISEC and MINIFOP personnel through technical assistance; and
(b) alleviate the shortages of critically needed manpower by provisions
for: (i) a new technical secondary school (TSS - 270 places); and (ii) a
new national vocational training center (NVTC - 120 places with 240
training stations).



- 16 -
Textbook and Teaching Materials (Supply and Distribution)
4.02      General.  A major cause of low-level educational quallty is
shortaSe of textbooks and other teaching materials. It is estimated that
only one In eight primary school students has a set of textbooks and this
is far below any accepted standard. This situation is compounded by the
corresponding lack of teaching materials and an inadequate distribution
infrastructure including lack of a consistent financial support.
4.03      With assistance provided under the First Education Project and
with aid from the Federal Republic of Germany, a MINEPRISEC School
Printshop (IMPRESCO) was established which is adequately equipped to print
the required textbooks. However, the distribution system administered by
the School Equipment Division of MINEPRISEC lacks managerial capability,
storage space and consistent financial support. To assist the Government
to alleviate these shortcomings, specific support would be provided for:
(a) technical assistance (7 staff/years) for the recruitment of an expert
adviser/accountant and expert(s) in printing techniques to strengthen the
administration for textbook supply and distribution and provide counterpart
training accordingly for Rwandese personnel who will have responsibility
for managing this element; (b) a new central storage dep8t in Remera
(Kigali suburb) of about 1,300 square meters, having the necessary office
facilities together with a modest regional transit dep8t of about 130
square meters (including some office space) in each capital of the nine
remaining prefectures; (c) supply of paper for printing textbooks and
teacher manuals; and (d) the introduction of a cost-sharing book-usage
scheme through collection of student fees, which would ensure continuous
replenishment of these items.
4.04      Distribution and Supply System.  Details of the distribution
system are given in Annex 2 and are summarized as follows: IMPRESCO
reinforced with technical and financial autonomy (under the authority of
MINEPRISEC (Annex 1, C-3) by an Arrate Presidentiel of December 30, 1985,
headed by a qual_fied manager with technical assistance from experts (Annex
1, S-1), would be responsible for planning, programming, implementation
(including procurement and stock-control for the depBts and IMPRESCO) and
monitoring of the supply and distribution system. The required
coordination between the primary/CERAI curriculum development center,
IMPRESCO and the concerned MINEPRISEC authorities would be undertaken.
During negotiations, the Government gave an assurance that the
expert/adviser and expert(s) in printing techniques, having qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank Group would be appointed and in post by not later
than January 1, 1987 (para. 8.01(b)). The experts would train their
Rwandese counterparts and organize required on-the-job training so that
upon their departure efficient operation may continue. Planning of the
required textbooks/materials would be based upon enrollment forecasts by
school to be ready at least 10 months prior to the start of each school
year. IHPRESCO's production would be efficiently managed in a phased
fashion for storage in the Remera dep8t. Students' basic minimum packages
would be packed there in suitable boxes assigned, invoiced and labeled for
each school (about 18,000 boxes) and stored by prefecture. Boxes would be
transported during July-August to regional dep8ts by truck (about 80 boxes



- 17 -
per truck) under contract with a suitable firm following bids. 12/ The
Government would finance the supply of education materials, one  alf of
which would be transported at this time and the remainder during
December-January. Communes and their Parents' Associations with schools'
participation would be reponsible for: (a) collection of student fees to be
deposited in a local bank; and (b) transportation of boxes (released upon
handing over receipt for deposit) from the regional depots to the schools.
Deposited student fees, transferred to a special account in the Central
Bank, National Bank of Rwanda (NBR), would form the basis of a Revolving
Fund established there by the MINEPRISEC to ensure sustained replenishment
of textbook/materials.
4.05      Norms for Supply of Textbooks and Teaching Materials.  A basic
minimum of textbooks and teaching materials would be provided in the
proportion of one set of textbooks per two primary school students and one
set per CERAI student (total for about one million students). In addition,
each student (both primary and CERAI) would receive one set of educational
materials and exercise books and each teacher would receive a set of
teaching manuals (total about 20,000 sets). The textbooks, which are
expected to last five years, would be the property of the MINEPRISEC
(marked accordingly to avoid sal.s abuses) and would be for school use
only.  A yearly student book-usa;e fee of 200-300 RwF (US$2-3) would be
charged for the rent of textbooki and which would also cover the cost of
the basic minimum educational materials. High costs have been experienced
due to frequent changes in textbook curricula, together with paper, cover
material and binding quality being higher than that required to obtain
economic-optional durability; these standards would be reduced
accordingly. During negotiations, The Government gave an assurance that no
major textbook revision in primary school or post-primary curricula
concerned would be made for a period of five years following March 31, 1987
(para. 8.01(c)).
4.06      To correspond with the above-mentioned norms, enrollment
forecasts, completion of dep8ts construction, existing stocks and required
replenishment, production is expected to be about 300,000 textbooks and six
million exercise books yearly from 1988, increasing by about four percent
yearly thereafter, in line with expected enrollment increase, and a total
of 160,000 teaching manuals. Close to 100 tons of paper on average will be
required per year for the textbook and teaching manuals production and
about 280 tons per year for exercise books. An inventory of available
primary school and CERAI textbooks has been completed.
4.07      It is planned that IMPRESCO would print the required school books
and complete the production of exercise books. The mission considers that
with improved efficiency IMPRESCO could produce these items timely and at
competitive prices. In that regard, prior to negotiations, the Government
provided to the Bank Group a satisfactory report on IMPRESCO including its
administrative procedures, audit of 1984 accounts, both present and planned
printing activities and use of paper recently procured under the First
Education Project; it also provided during negotiations a copy of ArrgtE
Presidentiel No. 655/13 of December 30, 1985 which grants technical and
financial autonomy to IMPRESCO (under the authority of MINEPRISEC) for more
12/ Local firms could provide this service.



- 18 -
efficient operation. During negotiations, the Government gave an assurance
that an audit report for IMPRESCO 1985 accounts would be prepared by July
31, 1986 by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group and a
conformed copy of this report would be transmitted earliest thereafter for
Bank Group staff review (para. 8.02(d).
4.08      School Supplies Revolving Fund.  In order to ensure sufficient
funds to procure the required paper for replenishment of textbooks and
exercise books, other basic education materials, teacher manuals and
transport expenses, a special interest-bearing account in Rwandese francs
would be established by the Government in the NBR (Central Bank). IMPRESCO
would be responsible for supervision of this fund. Student fees collected
for the basic minimum textbooks would be transferred to this specific
account at the start of each school year. This form of cost-sharing is
also meant to reduce dependence on Government expenditures in this field
and upgrade quality in education. About US$2.0 million equivalent in fees
would be collected yearly when this component is fully operational. During
negotiations, the Government gave an assurance that this account would be
established and replenished at the start of each school-year and a
MINEPRISEC circular defining the student fees cost-sharing scheme would be
issued by not later than June 30, 1988 (para. 8.01(e)).
4.09      Monitoring.  A management committee (Comite d'Exploitation)
having representatives of the MINEPRISEC, Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning (MINIFIN), and the NBR has been established in IMPRESCO to guide
its management, monitor its operations and advise related units.
Monitoring would include quarterly review of the Revolving Fund and
IMPRESCO accounts as well as operational plans, procurement and inventories
for IMPRESCO and the Remera dep3t. During negotiations, the Government
gave an assurance that the management committee would prepare quarterly
reports for the Revolving Fund, IMPRESCO and the Remera dep8t in accordance
with the above monitoring which would be incorporated in the semi-annual
reports to be transmitted for IDA review and comment (para. 8.01(f)). The
project includes support for continuous monitoring of the textbook
distribution and cost-sharing schemes. It is envisaged that appropriate
members of the MINEPRISEC-appointed Textbook Distribution Commission would
for three successive years following the first distribution, identify any
emerging problems in the distribution cycle in particular regarding
textbook/materials from planning to distribution among students, and in
general concerning the cost-sharing scheme, and make recommendations to
overcome these problems. In addition, the study on improvement in
educational administration and support for fellowship training for three
inspectors (para. 4.10) would include aspects related to improved provision
and care of textbooks/materials.
Institutional Support (Studies/Seminars)
4.10      The project includes about three staff/years of technical
assistance specialists (Annex 1, S-1) for the following studies: (a)
monitoring of textbook distribution and cost-sharing schemes; (b)
improvement of school inspection and management; (c) improvement of
educational administration; and (d) evaluation/preinvestment studies



- 19 -
related to the project components and development of the sector. Seminars
would also be financed for training of school inspectors and managers,
inter alios. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that
these studies would be started earliest in accordance with terms of
reference agreed with the Bank Group and that the studies would be
completed by not later than December 31, 1990 (para. 8.01(g)). In
addition, seven staff/years of specialists services are included for an
expert adviser/accountant and expert(s) in printing techniques to assist
IMPRESCO with the textbook supply distribution system, maintain project
accounts and train local counterparts so that they may be capable of
undertaking such tasks (paras. 4.18 and 6.02).
Technical Secondary School (TSS)
4.11      The new TSS, which would have a total of 270 student places with
a yearly intake of 60 students and an output of 36 technicians, would be
established in Kibuye, capital of Kibuye prefecture located on the shore of
Lake Kivu about 70 km. west of Kigali. The TSS would introduce a six-year
program (Annex 1, C-1) to train A2 technicians in two new mechanical
engineering streams, heavy duty mechanics and plant maintenance,
respectively. Of the 36 yearly output of graduates, one-third are expected
to be directly employed in parastatal and private enterprises, one-third
would proceed to engineering training in higher education and one-third
would enter technical teaching following suitable training. Existing and
planned output of A2 engineering technicians (even taking a low estimate of
requirements relative to a high level of supply) falls well short of
evaluated needs and Rwanda faces a serious shortage of engineers (para.
1.13). In addition, shortages of trained personnel in these new
specialized skills are reportedly acute with deleterious effects on
industrial performance of enterprises and plant maintenance within them.
4.12      The training course would have two semesters yearly with 40
periods tuition weekly.  The curriculum prepared by the BPES is suitable,
having overall, about 38 percent of teaching time devoted to general
subjects, 32 percent to technological subjects (including technical
drawing), 26 percent -o workshop practice and four percent to general
science. However, curricula for fourth, fifth and sixth years for heavy
duty mechanics and plant maintenance (including mechanics, machine
elements, strength of materials, machine construction, prime movers and
plant implements, automation, electricity and electronics together w,th
workshop practice) will require elaboration. This adaptation would be
prepared in the BPES with expert assistance to be financed under Credit
1263-RW. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that these
prepared curricula would be received for review and comment by the Bank
Group by not later than June 30, 1988 (para. 8.01(h)). The MINEPRISEC
would award diplomas to successful graduates.
4.13      When in full operation, the TSS would require 23 full-time
equivalent teachers giving a student/teacher ratio of about 12 which is
acceptable for this type of school. Nine general subject teachers would be
recruited among Rwandese graduates. Twenty-eight staff/years of fellowship
training are included in the project (Annex 1, S-1) for about 14 Rwandese
candidates to train abroad to become teachers of technological and
practical subjects so that they may form an effective teaching staff.



- 20 -
Pedagogical training would be provided for them upon their return to
Rwanda, in the in-service teacher training unit in the Kicukiro TSS. In
the school's operation it is expected that an attrition rate of not greater
than 10 percent can be achieved through improved selection procedures.
Accordingly, during negotiations the Government provided assurances that
based upon the results of a study being undertaken on the causes of very
high attrition in the Kicukiro TSS, proposals satisfactory to the Bank
Group, for improved internal efficiency would be introduced for Kibuye
TSS. Receipt of such proposals would constitute a condition of
disbursement against the civil works category for the new school (para.
8.02). To ensure efficient launching and management of the TSS, technical
assistance is provided in the project for recruitment of a suitably
qualified and experienced Director for two years beginning January, 1989.
13/ A suitable Rwandese Deputy Director (intended to succeed him) would
aTso be appointed by the same time and be trained in management of the
school by the Director in addition to a bursar (intendant), supervisor
(surveillant) and workshop supervisor (chef d'ateliers). During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that satisfactory recruitment
proposals for the proposed Director and Deputy Director would be provided
for Bank Group review and comment by not later than September 30, 1988 and
that they would be appointed by not later than January 1, 1989 (para.
8.01(i)). The project would include academic and boarding facilities and
at least 16 staff houses. It is expected that austere standards of such
staff housing would be implemented. Because student selection would be on
a national basis, commuting constraints due to very hilly terrain and
inadequate home study environment, hostel accommodation would be provided
for practically all students in the TSS.
National Vocational Training Center (NVTC)
4.14      The NVTC would have 120 places with 240 training stations to
provide both initial training programs (maximum length nine months) and
shorter upgrading courses; yearly output would be about 60 skilled workers
of A3-level and about 240 for other training, subject to maximum 120
enrollment at any one time. The NVTC would be located in Kigali with good
access from popular residential areas and industrial enterprises. The
center would offer initial training in nine-month courses for CERAI
graduates as well as for other suitable candidates and one-month
upgrading/re-training courses for industrial employees in private and
parastatal enterprises. Initial basic training would be offered in the
following six specialisms having 20 trainees each: mechanics, welding/sheet
metal work, electricity, auto-mechanics, carpentry and building
construction. Following this course and upon entry to employment, these
trainees would undergo on-the-job industrial training plus
upgrading/re-training of one-year equivalent to become A3 skilled
workers. 14/ The center's workshops would also be equipped to provide
short courses to respond to labor market needs (such as refrigeration) and
13/ The technical assistance included could be used for contracting the
required management expertise in a twinning' approach with a
well-developed TSS elsewhere.
14/ Thus, while about 120 initial trainees would be trained yearly the
effective output is about 60 skilled workers, or 10 in each specialty;
total annual output for all courses would be about 300.



- 21 -
it is expected that evening courses for iniLial and upgrading training
would be organized after about two years' operation. Rwanda's requirements
of skilled workers in the above specialties surpass existing output
together with planned NVTC and other output (para. 1.13) but the center
should greatly alleviate present acute shortages.
4.15      The NVTC would have all-year-round training with trainees
spending 40 hours weekly entirely in the workshops. Details of the
training programs given in the Project Preparation Report would be
elaborated by MINIFOP personnel in cooperation with three specialists
(chief technical adviser, planner/programmer and extension and
apprenticeship trainer) to be recruited soon after Credit effectiveness
(Annex 1, S-1). The planning and programming of training courses would
similarly be prepared to ensure a suitable sequence of initial training,
followed by practical work experience in enterprises and
upgrading/re-training courses to qualify skilled workers. Canteen
facilities would be provided for students at the NVTC. Housing would be
provided only for the NVTC Director.
4.16      A National Vocational Training Board (NVTB) attached to the
MINIFOP would be established earliest to develop vocational training policy
and would have representation from other concerned ministries, the private
sector and established trade unions (Annex 1, C-6). Under policy guidance
from the NVTB and administrative authority of the MINIFOP, responsibilities
of the vocational training office of the NVTC would comprise (in addition
to training), planning and programming of vocational training and training
activities outside the center, including in-plant training for specific
skills and apprenticeship training. It is expected that close links will
be developed by the NVTC with private and parastatal industrial
enterprises. It is also expected that the center would justify its
usefulness to these enterprises to the extent that arrangements can be made
for their participation not only in sharing the costs of vocational
training but also in management of the center.
4.17      Of technical assistance included for required institution
building in the MINIFOP Directorate of Vocational Training and the NVTC,
three specialists mentioned in para. 4.15 would be recruited whose
functions would include on-the-job training for their Rwandese
counterparts, one of whom would be the future NVTC Director and others who
would replace the relevant experts. When fully operational, the NVTC would
require six full-time senior instructors for day-courses (for the six
specialisms) plus six assistant instructors. To launch the center
efficiently, five senior specialist instructors would be recruited (a
Rwandese instructor is available for the building construction specialism)
and six suitable Rwandese technical secondary school graduates having
industrial experience would be appointed to undertake on-the-job teaching
instruction by the specialists and fellowship training abroad (Annex 1,
S-1). During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the
proposed contract commitment for all fellowship trainees supported under
the project, to work for a minimum of five successive years in these
instltutes upon their return from training abroad, would be transmitted for
Bank Group review and comment by not later than June 30, 1987



- 22 -
(para. 8.01(j)). To ensure efficient management of the center, the
technical adviser, planner and extension training specialists and their
Rwandese counterparts would be punctually recruited. During negotiations,
the Government provided assurances that satisfactory recruitment proposals
for them would be transmitted to the Bank Group for review and comment by
not later than July 31, 1986 and that the two former would be appointed and
in post by not later than January 31, 1987 and the latter by January 31,
1988 (para. 8.01(k)). The Government also provided before negotiations,
information satisfactory to the Bank Group on the legal status of the NVTC.
Technical Assistance Summary
4.18      The technical assistance program provides for 30 staff/years of
specialists services (including three staff/years for above-mentioned
studies) and 46 staff/years of fellowship training to be allocated as
outlined in Annex 1, S-1. Five staff/years of specialists services are
included for an expert adviser/accountant to manage the textbook
distribution element and maintain project accounts and two staff/years for
expert(s) in printing techniques as considered necessary for this period to
ensure efficient project implementation. To recruit a Director for
efficient launching of the TSS, two staff/years are also allocated (para.
4.13). However, the major portion of technical assistance services, 18
staff/years, is allocated to the NVTC, of which eight for MINIFOP
institution building (including training of Rwandese to replace the experts
concerned) and preparation for launching the center through recruitment of
a technical adviser, planner and extension/apprenticeship expert (para.
4.15); the remaining 10 staff/years are assigned to five vocational
trainers to start-up of NVTC training and train their Rwandese
counterparts. UNDP is expected to provide to the Government on a grant
basis, financing of about 16 staff years of specialists services and six
staff years of fellowship training. It is expected that the Government may
select ILO as implementing agency for UNDP-financed technical assistance.
4.19      While nire staffryears are provided for 10 fellowship trainees
related to the texctbook element, the major portion of technical assistance
for fellowship training(28 staff/years) is allocated to the TSS for 14
selected Rwandese to train abroad for two years each in the 14 specialisms
they will teach upon return, as outlined in Annex 1, S-1. For the NVTC,
the Rwandese Director and Training Chief are allocated a half-year each
training abroad, while the trainers in the six specialisms to be taught
would have an academic year training each for a total of six staff/years.
In the context of the project's quality improvement objective, one
staff/year each is included for three MINEPRISEC inspectors. Contingency
allowance is also made for additional fellowship training as considered
necessary.



- 23 -
4.20      Technical assistance specialists financed under the project would
be selected in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for use of Consultants.
Qualifications, experience and terms of employment of specialists and
consultants would be satisfactory to the Bank Group. Fellowship
candidates, courses of study and institutions would also be selected in
consultation with the Bank Group. All specialists, as a part of their
terms of reference, would be expected to train local counterparts.
Female Participation in the Education System
4.21      In primary schools and CERAI, where about one million students
will be affected by the textbook component of the project, enrollment of
females in 1984 was 48 and 46 percent, respectively. In secondary
education in 1984, female enrollment by general, technical and teacher
training streams was 19, 40 and 45 percent, respectively. However, because
of the very specialized nature of the courses to be provided in the TSS and
the NVTC, and given present attitudes, percentages of female students in
these institutes are not expected to increase in the foreseeable future.
The percentage of female students in the NUR has gradually increased over
recent years to reach 16 percent in 1984.
Population Education
4.22      Recognizing the dire effects of very rapid population growth upon
achievement of food security together with adequate employment and social
services, the Government has highlighted development of population policy
and family planning programs since 1980. The National Population Office
(ONAPO) was established in 1981 to research population growth, integrate
family planning services into the health system and provide public
information on these matters. USAID supports this process and the
IDA-financed Bugesera-Gisaka-Migongo (BGM) rural development project
contains a family planning component. ONAPO is also undertaking a
nationwide fertility survey as a basis for reinforcing future programs.
The primary and secondary pedagogical centers have been directed since 1980
to incorporate population education elements in school curricula to the
extent possible, though efforts made do not seem to be as effective as
desirable.
Environmental Impact
4.23      No negative impact on the environment is expected as a result of
this project.



- 24 -
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
5.01      The total cost of the project including grants from UNDP is
estimated at US$19.0 million including customs duties and taxes estimated
at US$1.3 million equivalent. The estimated costs and foreign-exchange
components are given in Annex 1, T-6(a), T-6(b) and (T-6(c), respectively
and are suimmarized below.
RwF Million          US$ Million    Z of
Base
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Cost
1. Construction, Furniture,
Equipment, Vehicles and
Teaching Materials
a. Textbooks/Distribution
System                  126    256   382  1.37   2.80   4.17  28
b. TSS - Kibuye            132    265   397  1.43   2.91   4.34  29
c. NVTC - Kigali            69    141   210  0.76   1.54   2.30  16
Sub-Total (1)           327    662   989  3.56   7.25  10.81  73
2. Technical Assistance           37    269   306  0.41   2.94   3.35  23
3. Project Administration          8      20    28  0.10   0.20   0.30   2
4. Professional Services (A/E)    4       18    22  0.05   0.19   0.24   2
Total Base Cost (1-4)      376    969 1,345  4.12  10.58  14.70 100
(March, 1986)
5. Contingencies
a. Physical (8%)            32     51    83  0.35   0.55   0.90
b. Price (24%)              88    222   310  0.96   2.44   3.40
Sub-Total (5)                 120    273   393  1.31   2.99   4.30
Total Project Costs (1-5)    496  1,242 1,738  5.43  13.57  19.00
(of which taxes)             (115)         (115)(1.25)         (1.25)
5.02      Cost estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles
were derived from a review by Bank staff of data provided by the SFCS
project unit based on recent experience in implementing the First and
Second IDA Education Projects and on different school construction
activities financed from other sources. The proposed schedules of
accommodation are functional, austere and appropriate for the proposed



- 25 -
project objectives. Base cost per student (academic and conmunal) is
estimated at US$6,500 for the TSS and US$7,200 for the NVTC. The average
unit base cost of construction (excluding equipment) varies from about
US$360 equivalent per square meter for technical workshops (secondary
education) to about US$490 equivalent per square meter for the science
laboratories. These costs reflect, inter alia, the transport difficulties
associated with a landlocked country and heavy dependence on the external
supply of goods and services. The range of recent available unit costs for
similar institutions in other Eastern and Southern Africa countries compare
as follows: Ethiopia US$280 to US$400 (1984) and Botswana US$250 to US$350
(1985). Furniture and equipment would be of a type appropriate to the
basic needs in the country to accomplish the educational objectives of the
proposed project.
5.03      Technical Assistance (para. 4.18, Annex 1, S-1) It is expected
that UNDP will undertake joint financing of technical assistance for the
NVTC component to the extent of about US$1.3 million.
5.04      Professional services (architectural/engineering) (para. 6.03),
for the NVTC equivalent to about 18 man-months are included in the project.
5.05      Cuotoms Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for
the proposed project would be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes,
in line with the standard practice of the Government. It is expected that
some of the materials to be usad in the construction of the proposed
institutes would be acquired on the local market and would be subject to
clstoms duties and/or taxes. Of the estimated cost for civil works, about
bo$1.3 million equivalent would represent customs duties and taxes.
5.06      Contingency Allowances.  For physical contingencies, an average
of six percent has been added to the base cost which is considered
adequate. Price increases, from the base 0ost date (March 1986) have been
c-alculated by applying, to the base cost plus physical contingencies, the
following percentage rates of price escalation in accordance with the
implementation schedule (Annex 1, S-2):
Calendar Year          1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Local (Z)              10.0    10.0    10.0       7.0     7.0      7.0
Foreign (Z)             7.0      7.0     7.5      7.7     7.6      4.5
These annual rates have been reviewed by Bank Group staff and have been
found satisfactory. The total price increase is estimated at 23 percent of
the base cost plus physical contingencies.
5.07      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component has
been calculated as follows: (a) civil works, 52 percent; (b) locally
manufactured furniture, 60 percent; (c) directly imported furniture,
equipment and vehicles, 100 percent; (d) equipment assembled or
manufactured locally, 60 percent; (e) professional services and project
administration, 70 percent; (f) technical assistance and training, 85
percent; and (g) fellowships, 100 percent. Including contingencies, the
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$13.6 million equivalent or 72
percent of the total project cost (77 percent net of taxes). Excluding the
UNDP grant, the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$12.3 million
I



- 26 -
or 69 percent of the project cost net of taxes. This high foreign exchange
component is basically the result of the large proportion of imported
equipment, construction materials, related transport costs and technical
assistance.
Financing Plan
5.08      An IDA Credit of SDR 13.5 million (US$15.6 million equivalent),
and a grant of US$1.3 million equivalent from UNDP would finance the
project as follows:
US$ Million Equivalent
Category                    GOV'T   IDA  Sub-total   UNDP       Total
1. Civil Works               0.90   6.10    7.00        -         7.00
2. Furniture/Equipment/
Vehicles                  0.30   3.00    3.30        -        3.30
3. Paper and Printing
Materials                 0.10   0.80    0.90        -         0.90
4. Tech. Assist./
Training and Seminars    0.10   1.80    1.90        1.30      3.20
5. Professional
Services                  0.05   0.20    0.25        -        0.25
6. Project Administration   0.05   0.25    0.30         -         0.30
(excluding salaries)
7. Unallocated               0.60   3.45    4.05        -         4.05
Total (1-7)               2.10  15.60   17.70       1.30     19.00
of which taxes           (1.25)   -      (1-25)      -        (1.25)
5.09      The IDA Credit would provide financing toward the following
components: (a) the textbook/teaching material supply and distribution
component, including paper for the printing of textbooks but excluding
educational materials (Government); (b) the TSS in Kibuye; (c) the NVTC in
Kigali, excluding most of the technical assistance (UNDP); (d) studies and
seminars; and (e) technical assistance and operating expenses (excluding
salaries) for project administration.t
5.10     UNDP would provide a grant of about US$1.3 million toward
financing about 16 staff/years of technical assistance specialists and
about six staff/years of fellowships for the NVTC. It is expected that
four of these experts would be UN volunteers (Annex 1, S-1). In addition
to covering the cost of all duties and taxes CUS$1.3 million), the
l



- 27 -
Government would provide the equivalent of about US$0.8 million towards
other local expenditures. It is a condition of Credit effectiveness that
UNDP enter into a formal agreement with the Government (satisfactory to the
Bank Group) for the provision of technical assistance for the NVTC (para.
8.03).
5.11      The incremental recurrent costs generated by the project are
estimated at an annual RwF 67.3 million 15/ (or about US$0.4 million
equivalent) and would account for 0.9 percent of total recurrent
expenditures on education in 1992 16/ when the project is expected to be
in full operation. The main reaso6nfor such a relatively low impact is
that the project has been designed to minimize its impact on the Goverpment
budget through the establishment of a cost-sharing scheme for the supply of
textbooks and teaching materials.
VI. IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
Implementation
6.01      The project would be implemented over a period of about five and
a half years (Annex 1, S-2). The project is expected to be completed by
June 30, 1991, with a Closing Date of December 31, 1991. The
implementation schedule is based on, inter alia, experience derived from
the First and Second IDA assisted Education Projects in Rwanda (paras. 3.01
and 3.02).
6.02      Project Administration.  The !ervice de Financement et des
Constructions Scolaires (SFCS), which was established under the First
Education Project and has the responsibility for the implementation of the
Second Education Project and education projects financed by otLer donor
agencies (including, inter alios, the African Development Bank and the
European Economic Community) would continue to have responsibility for the
implementation of the MINEPRISEC components of this project. The Direction
de la Formation, MINIFOP, would have responsibility for execution of the
NVTC. The Director of MINIFOP would be reponsible for the overall
administration of the NVTC component. He would be assisted by the
echnical assistance team, in particular the chief technical adviser (Annex
1, S-1). Five years of technical assistance is also included in the
project for an expert adviser/accountant and two years of technical
assistance for expert(s) in printing techniques for the SFCS. The expert
adviser/accountant in addition to managing the textbook element would
maintain project accounts both for SFCS and MINIFOP and would prepare
withdrawal applications for funds under the project. He/she would also
maintain the accounts of funds provided by UNDP as appropriate and train
15/ Including RwF 36.5 million for Kibuye TSS, RwF 28.3 million for Kigali
NVTC and RwF 2.6 million for textbook distribution scheme.
16/ Assumptions about growth of total recurrent expenditures on education
are given in Annex 1, T-5(b).



- 28 -
Rwandese counterparts in accounting/financial analysis. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the SFCS would be
adequately staffed and maintained during the implementation of this
project, including the appointment of a qualified Rwandese accountant
(para. 8.01(1)).
l
6.03      Professional Services.  The preparation of tender documents
including furniture and equipment for civil works and further preparation
studies on the textbook supply component for the MINEPRISEC would be
undertaken by SFCS staff with additional financing from pre-investment
funds allocated under the Second IDA Education Project (Credit 1263-RW) as
required. The preparation of tender documents including furniture and
equipment and civil works for the HINIPOP components would be financed
under the IDA Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1217-RW). The project
includes the cost for site supervision for all components.
6.04      Specialists and Consulting Services.  All specialists and
consultants financed under the IDA Credit would be hired under contracts on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group in accordance with the
Bank Group Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
6.05      Sites.  Satisfactory sites exist for all project institutes.
6.06      Status of Preparation.  As indicated above, authorized project
implementation UPits exist and required support for Rwandese staff would be
timely recruited. Preliminary equipment lists with estimated costs were
provided for Bank Group review prior to negotiations for all the project
institutes and preliminary sketch designs with estimated costs were also
provided for the MINEPRISEC items. As preparation of preliminary sketch
designs with estimated costs for the NVTC was delayed, it is a condition of
Credit effectiveness that an architectural firm acceptable to the Bank
Group will have been selected for this work (para. 8.03(b)). Terms of
reference have been prepared for all studies planned, training and
technical assistance needs have been identified with terms of reference
prepared for all assignments and satisfactory Procedures for recruitment of
consultants agreed. A schedule for timely recruitment of key personnel has
been prepared. Contract packages and procuremenit methods have been defined
and a schedule has also been prepared for civil works and equipment
procurement.
6.07      Maintenance.  The maintenance of all education facilities is
under the responsibility of the MINEPRISEC and is performed by the SFCS.
Adequate funds for maintenance are included in its budget. No problem is
envisaged in this respect.
6.08      Monitoring and Evaluat'.on.  Semi-annual progress reports on
implementation would be submitted to the Bank Group by the SFCS for the
MINEPRISEC items and by the MINIFOP for the NVTC, each December and June
following Credit effectiveness. The format would be mutually agreed upon
prior to the date of the first submission and wuuld be modified as deemed
necessary during Implementation of the project. The Government, with
assistance of MINEPRISEC and MINIFOP, would prepare and send to the Bank



- 29 -
Group for comments, within six months from the Closing Date, a completion
report assessing attainment of project objectives, project implementation
and initial operation, its cost and the benefits derived, the performance
of the Government, the Bank Group and other agencies involved, and the
significant lessons learned.
Procurement
6.09      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
US$ Million
TOTAL
Project Element                    ICB        LCB      OTHER      COST
1. Civil Works                        8.0        0.9        -         8.9
(6.9)     (0.8)                (7.7)
2. Furniture/Equipment/Vehiales        3.8       0.5         -        4.3
(3.4)     (0.4)                (3.8)
3. Paper and Printing
Materials                           1.0       0.2        -         1.2
(0.9)     (0.1)                (1.0)
4. Technical Assistance                -          -        4.0        4.0
(2.7)     (2.7)
5. Professional Services (A/E)         -          -         0.3       0.3
-         -        (0.2)     (0.2)
6. Project Administration              -          -        0.3        0.3
(0.2)     (0.2)
TOTAL                             12.8        1.6       4.6       19.0
(11.2)     (1.3)     (3.1)    (15.6)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
the Association.
6.10      Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines for procurement. However, civil
works contracts costing less than US$250,000 equivalent each and contracts
for furniture and equipment costing less than US$50,000 each (an aggregate
not to exceed US$1.0 million) would be by competitive bidding, advertised
locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank
Group.



- 30 -
6.11      Standardized sketch designs, draft tender documents and master
lists of furniture, equipment and vehicles indicating proposed grouping and
estimates of costs would be reviewed by the Bank Group staff. Items would
be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and
to permit bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents prior to
award would be required only for contracts above US$250,000 equivalent for
civil works and US$50,000 equivalent for furniture, equipment and other
materials.
6.12      Where international competitive bidding procedures are used: (a)
domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a
preference of 15 percent, or the existing rate of import duties, whichever
is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers; and (b) if
applicable, qualified domestic contractors would be allowed a preferential
margin of 7.5 percent over prices of competing foreign contractors.
Disbursement
6.13      Disbursement would be on the basis of: (a) 85 percent of
expenditures for civil works; and (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures
and 80 percent of local expenditures for furniture, equipment, vehicles and
other materials, technical assistance, studies, professional services and
seminars; and (c) 70 percent of expenditures for operating costs excluding
salaries.
6.14      All disbursements will be fully documented except those for
furniture, equipment, vehicles and other materials together with studies,
local seminars and operating costs, contracts for which value would be
below US$10,000 equivalent. These would be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOE), documentation for which would not be submitted for
review but would be retained by the Borrower at the SFCS and would be the
subject of an annual audit by auditors acceptable to the Bank Group.  In
addition, the documentation should be readily available for review by Bank
Group representatives during the course of project supervision. The
Borrower shall not submit applications for reimbursement valued below
US$20,000 equivalent. Based upon experience in previous Bank Group
financed education projects, the SFCS has satisfactory institutional
capacity to use SOE and manage the Special Account. Disbursements financed
by IDA are expected to be completed by December 31, 1991 (Annex 1, S-3).
6.15      The typical disbursement profile for Rwanda is eight years.  The
ongoing Second IDA Education Project is expected to be completed on
schedule in about four and one-half years. Because of the experience
eeveloped in the past project, a five and one-half year disbursement
profile is considered reasonable.
6.16      Special Account.  In order to ensure that funds for the project
would be made available when needed, a Special Account in US Dollars
operated by the SFCS, would be established at the National Bank of Rwanda
with an initial deposit by IDA of about US$400,000 - to cover about three
months of expenditures -- which would be withdrawn from the Credit



- 31 -
account. The account would be replenished on the basis of documentary
evidence, to be provided to the Bank Group by the SFCS, of payments made
from the account for goods and services required for the project. Opening
of the Special Account into which IDA would deposit an initial amount would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 8.03).
6.17      Project Advance Account.  In order to ensure that the
Government's counterpart funding would also be available when needed, the
Government would establish a separate Project Advance Account into which it
would deposit, at the beginning of each quarter, its share of project
costs. Establishing the Project Advance Account and depositing the initial
amount of RwF 500,000 would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para.
8.03). In any case, this account should be replenished so that it would
nut at any time be lower than RwF 50,000.
Auditing
6.18      Annual auditing would be required for all expenditures financed
under this project, with particular attention to those expenditures
reimbursed under certificates of expenditures. Auditing would be performed
by auditors acceptable to the Bank Group, and applying satisfactory
auditing procedures. Audit reports would be submitted yearly to the Bank
Group for the project for the School Supplies Revolving Fund, the Special
Account (para. 6.16), the Project Advance Account (para. 6.17) and
IMPRESCO, within six months following the end of the Borrower's fiscal
year. To strengthen the accounting capacity of the SFCS/PIU, five
staff/years of technical assistance for an expert adviser/accountant is
included in the project (para. 6.02). This specialist, in addition to
managing the textbook distribution element would also coordinate the
project accounts and oversee the accounts of IMPRESCO and the textbock
supply and distribution component. He would also improve the accounting
methods and train local counterparts.
VII.  BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      The textbook supply and distribution component would have an
important pedagogical benefit in significantly improving quality of primary
and post-primary (CERAI) education, through providing teaching manuals for
some 20,000 teachers and increasing textbook provision from the present 12
percent to 50 percent (one set per two) for up to a million students in the
medium term. 17/ The cost-sharing replenishment scaeme to be introduced
simultaneouslTywould have an important fiscal benefit in yielding about
US$2.0 million yearly (1985 prices) and thus, not only help reader textbook
supply and distribution self-sustaining, but also reduce Government
financial responsibility in this regard. The technical and vocational
education elements both should have economic benefits through providing
yearly outputs of 36 engineering technicians, 60 skilled workers and 240
17/ Practically all student beneficiaries from the project may be
categorized as poor.



- 32 -
other vocationally trained personnel and thus alleviate acute shortages of
trained labor force personnel and provide suitable candidates for higher
education. Introduction of training in heavy duty mechanics and plant
maintenance constitute important additions. Locatlon of the TSS in Kibuye
should positively influence development in a town having potential as a
pole of growth. The eventual provision of evening classes in the NVTC in
Kigali would lead to greater utilization of resources and in the medium
term, engender much-needed improved standards in vocational skills among
the city population. The technical assistance element of the project would
add to institution building in the MINIFOP and MINEPRISEC. Local planning
and programming capacity should be established by the project in the
MINIFOP and training expertise in the NVTC. Adequate management capacity
for textbook supply and distribution and institutional administration
should be established in the MINEPRISEC and TSS, respectively. In
addition, expertise for quality Improvement in primary and CERAI schools
should be improved by fellowship training and studies included. Finally,
Bank Group support in this project enhances the continuing dialogue among
the Government, the Bank Group staff and donor agencies on development of
the education sector in a more pragmatic and cost-effective manner which is
expected to have a catalytic effect in attracting coordinated support from
donor agencies.
Risks
7.02      Questions concerning Rwandese management and implementation
capability constitute the two main risks. Efficient management of the
textbook scheme will require effective coordination on planning,
programming and execution between BPERAI and IMPRESCO in Kigali and close
monitoring of distribution in the regions. Introduction of a book-usage
fee payment by students and handling of fees before their deposit in the
School Supplies Revolving Fund, also need close monitoring.  Recruitment of
a qualified expert adviser/accountant for five years, who would also train
Rwandese counterparts should serve to minimize these risks. In addition,
funds are included in the project for field monitoring of distribution and
cost-sharing. The TSS and NVTC would be modern institutes having valuable,
sophisticated equipment and will require high standard institutional
management. Improvement of internal efficiency aspe-ts for the TSS and
avoidance of legal delays in the establishment of the National Vocational
Training Board for the NVTC will also require close monitoring. To assure
appropriate management, capable specialists would be provided under the
project to launch the institutes efficiently and train Rwandese
counterparts to maintain established standards upon their departure.
Despite the above-mentioned risks, this project is worthy of IDA support.



- 33 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Daring negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) an evaluation of progress in achieving an agreed action
program for improvement of quality and cost-effectiveness
would be provided for Bank Group staff review by not later
than July 31 each year (para. 2.18);
tb)  IMPRESCO shall recruit an expert adviser/accountant and
expert(s) in printing techniques, having qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank Group, to be in post by not later
than January 1, 1987 (para. 4.04);
(c) no major textbook revision in primary school or post-primary
curricula would be made for a period of five years following
March 31, 1987 (para. 4.05);
(d) an audit report for IMPRESCO 1985 accounts would be prepared
by July 31, 1986 by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank Group and a conformed copy of this report would be
transmitted earliest thereafter for Bank Group staff review
(para. 4.07);
(e) a School Supplies Revolving Fund for collected textbook fees
would be established in the NBR and replenished at the start
of each school year and a MINEPRISEC circular defining the
student fees cost-sharing scheme would be issued by not
later than June 30, 1988 (para. 4.08);
(f)  a management committee (Comite d'Exploitation) in IMPRESCO,
having representatives of the HINEPRISEC, HINIFTN a-ad NBR
would prepare quarterly reports for the Remera aep8t,
IMPRESCO and the Revolving Fund which would be incorporated
in the semi-annual reports transmitted for Bank Group staff
review and comment (para. 4.09);
(g) the studies to be undertaken under the project would be
started earliest in accordance with terms of re'-rence
agreed with the Bank Group and that the studies would be
completed by not later than December 31, 1990 (para. 4.10);
(h) the syllabi for fourth, fifth and sixth year programs for
heavy duty mechanics and plant maintenance would be provided
for Bank Group staff review by not later than June 30, 1988
(para. 4.12);
(i) satisactory recruitment proposals for the TSS Director and
Deputy Director would be transmitted for Bank Group staff
review and comment by not later than September 30, 1988 and
that they would be appointed by not later than January 1,
1989 (para. 4.13);



- 34 -
(j) a proposed contract commitment by all fellowship trainees to
work for a minimum of five successive years in these
institutes upon their return from training, would be
transmitted for Bank Group staff review and comment by not
later than June 30, 1987 (para. 4.17);
(k) satisfactory recruitment proposals for the NVTC technical
adviser, planner and extension experts and their Rwandese
counterparts would be transmitted for Bank Group staff
review and coument by not later than July 31, 1986 and the
two former would be appointed and in post by not later than
January 31, 1987 and the latter by January 31, 1988 (para.
4.17); and
(1) the SFCS would be adequately staffed and maintained during
project implementation, including the appointment of a
qualified Rwandese accountant (para. 6.02).
8.02      As a ccndition of disbursement for the civil works element of the
TSS, the Government would provide for Bank Group review and comment
satisfactory proposals (based upon a study of Kicukiro TSS attrition) to
introduce Improved procedures to ensure internal efficiency for Kibuye TSS
(para. 4.13).
8.03      As conditions of Credit effectiveness: (a) UNDP would enter into
a formal agreement (satisfactory to the Bank Group) with the Government for
the provision of technical assistance to the NVTC (para. 5.10); and (b) the
Government would provide information to the Bank Group that: (i) a Special
Account had been established in the NBR as well as a Project Advance
Account of RwF 500,000; and (ii) an architectural firm acceptable to the
Bank Group had been selected to prepare a study of the construction of the
NVTC (paras. 5.10, 6.06, 6.16, and 6.17).
8.04      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 13.5 million (US$15.6
million equivalent) to the Rwandese Republic.



RWANDA
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
PRE-1979 STRUCTURE
PRIMARY                                                                      (a) Artiaon Edjcation
1  2  3  4  5       6            1       2       3      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(b) ArtiaancaTrairingfr  op midDOmeft Arts forGris
(c) Techical Educotion
(d) 3-Yea Coivnnn Cs Folagd by two. Tvee ad For Yew Coms
ncludng Moden Ka1flTe&Ycc Eco tion and Tewcwe TSg
(a) Classica Humanities
RffORMED STRUCTIURE
(a) _  _  _  _     _       _                    -~~~~~~~~EmowiSocia Scaenoe
AGE    7  8 ~~~~  10  11     1 _2    1J 1                         1       1.      1_     1_       20-r
()-Science
Low
- Scwece
PRIMARY-MoenTcis
AGE    7       a       c       o 10      11    '12    13       14          IS      '16     1 7     la      19      20
o Posl.Primo.y Vocational in CERAI (Centre Cleneagnenr*trxot Arbsonol nteobe)
.b0) Seconday Educotlon for (b) Sslled Clattvman Le"l (A3) NuLing. AgroyeternVy (c) Mlddle  Tochnician
Agro-yetetlnory. Forestry. Comnmercs. rxAng. Nutntlon and (d) Midle-We Technrcion (2), Scence. Humonmes and Teacher Troai n
* Selected godua?es from Secondorv School enter Higher Educution
In 1981 the Ntional Pedogogicol Insfitute was transferred trom the NLSR Butre campus to fobm o second compAus d the NUR of Ruhe ng
orld B    - 27458



RWANDA
EDUCATION III
Education PyramId 1984
L             AP/ GfOM/                                         Mdr/                                                                                  Fem/mI
Nmmu           Ag G6de                                         CeMn                                                                                    Fmo
26     20                                                                                     41 1                                                                                          42
25     9                                                                                     t6 4                                                                                          SO
24     18                                                                                     141 21                                                                                       162
HNW  M/        23    17                                                                                      182 23                                                                                       175
Sg4.e            22    16                                                                                      22880                                                                                        278
21    15                                                                                     47?  95                                                                                       572
J
20    14                                                                                     371 167                                                                                      Su 36
becanddEy/       19    13                                                                                     806 3m                                                                                      1.161                             1
18    12                                                                                   A63   718                                                                                     2.181
CERAV         17    11                                                                               4696            4,336                                                                              9M2
a.Carday         16    10                                                                                  2.3261   1A13'                                                                                  3,7391
15     9                                                                             7.531           6.103                                                                              1394
14      8                                                       2.086                                                 2.940                                                             47.996
1 3    7                                                     29.523F                                                    124.475                                                         53.998
12     a                                                 053.                                                                  131.904                                                  66957
Atbyt          11      5                                         42.226                                                                                139.965                                          82191
*               I10    4                                 49.649                                                                                                   49.1885                               98Ji
9      3                          55.636                                                                                                              53.847                           109.482
8      2                 64.6421                                                                                                                             162402                    127D44
7      I      F2.593                                                                 _7817 __OAIO
80.000    70.W0     0,000    50Dm       40.00     30W      20.01    100.W0        0      10t,r      20=      30.00     40A         s0o0    6.00    70.         M0J0
'Estobbiwr*nt od CERAJ coum appuit ewylmennt atoa.ly
Scume MIEFRISEC StatWu  de ren.egroeewnt Wnne sCcOUO 1982-1983                                                                                                          WodE Om  - 27459



EwE
KDmPisg  QuzANE iTi CHAR  1984
* Sdool Ho
- Pinwice~                                                      _____                                          wiatc
* Sularlee                 Proin : PrIlY.  CERAI                _  Pefozm
* qApmt                    * Qirric. Deveopment
- l.egal               _Pro: S
* Qric. M-M1opmrt
* Fiancal Control
1/ The Sdool Printshop (DfMES ) emtabIisih  .ufr tie azthority of the M! RIEC
t lmg  Arrdt Prfsidntial No. 655/13 of Deaedber 30, 1985 ard hAvirg tedmical and firnmal
autony wmi  be rxapowblTe for plming, program        , 1qlazntation and mxtorirg
of teKtbook distrihbtimn for prdiry schools ard CAI.



38-           ANNEX I
Chart 4
Ii$ti
I],13    I   T    __   __   __
I         I  1111111~~~~~~~~~~~~~II -
i~~~~~~  
.     tX  Xg    H
.  C       X    i ' | a 



RWANDA EDUCATION III
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC SERVICE AND PROFESSIONAL TRAINING (MINIFOP)
Organization Chart 1985
rInterministerial|                     n-              -       M ster--- -Nt.Cmiso
Coordin. Comm.                                                L                                                     Pub. Admin. 
Private Sector
SecretaryGeer
FPub. Admin.|                                                                       |Empi. 6 Soc.
Security
rao           ~~Accounts &  ay.]    [rof.Taining                StuiesEvaljJ                 Labor Safety    E.ployinnt
ticruitmentn n                            Training                                         abor  nanp.             Hanpower
fPerson. Adi.            Accounts &            Training in                Legisl. &            Prof.
t 'ayroll 1        1 country    l                tPayscales           Relations
|Perm  Secea                                                                                Tech. Safety             Statistics
chamber_
arbitr.
q Pensions|                           q Personne
uPub. Re1
Source: Ministry of Public Service and Professional Training (unofficial translation)



RWANDA EDUCATION III
CHART SHOWING MINIFOP/NVTC RELATIONSHIP
MINIPOP   -                                                  Oher MinistrLes|          Private Sectoir|        Trade Unions 1
Minister-__
Sec. General                                      raa ina  Voarin
Director of
Vocational Training
National Vocational
Training Office
Director
Statistics Section                          NVTC                       _ __o
Training Needs Section                          AdminiAtration and                                   Planning and
Management Services                               Programing Service
Inspection Section
Training Service.                                Training Extension
Training Certificate                           vith sections for;                               Service (enterprises)
mechanical
auto-mechanics
vwelding-eheet-vatel
electricity
_carpetry__  
conetruction
representation link
advisory link
-         authority link
Source: MINIFOP/AppraL.al Miesion 198S
1/  Representation in due course.
2/ The project includes technical assistance for recruitment of experts as follows:
Technical Adviser to the NVTC Director, Planner and Extension Trainer attached to
the NVTC and five expert Instructors (excluding construction) for the NVTC.



- 41 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN 
TableI3
COMPARATIVE ISUCTIOM IND!CAT70R
n                                                                               TI I~~Kech1. O
EXPE3IITURE   EDUCATIONf                              WLETION              BRENREMT 
On1 EDUCATION  ERCtJ83HT        ADULT               RATE FM6               UNIT CWET  PRmonsBiou
HASE  POP.  CAP ITA  P3600,7 GOP TOTAL. CNTRAL ALLOCATED 70, RATE              ENOL   CHOOL          ETUDOR EDUMCATTON  PRINAZI To  ENROLL.   XTUDENTS  ENROLL.
TEA" MILLS. (UES)   DEVOTD  TO  COWERNIENT    PEI  SEC  NT    (1)    RATIO   CTCLE                    PEE       AN PORCEDT SECONDART   RATIO          pEs         RtATIO
(1979) (1910)   EI3IICATTOWI UPENIDITUR              CX)        (397)   CI)           (I)       TEACHER  GNP/CALPITA       Cl)         CZ)      TEACHER       CR)
Ct)      (2)1    (3)               (4              C)            C6)       C7)       (a)         (9)        (in)         C(I )         (32)        (3 1)    (34)
DEVELOPED COUNTRIES
AUSTRALIA  iia   b                In         34.         -- ---             -          103'      100          21         -9                         73         21       20.40
CANADA              a      ,aI    **ssob        ?sA         a.SAY        3087 34', 238r   94          1i6r      zoo          21        19.987        Ion           938        is       j2.60'
r.R3IANT P.M.        70    53l.2  32 *200      44.6          9.08       -    -    --        q,4        8qu      zoom         --        -             zoo           94.       -         12.30.
NiTwRELRNOI          79     14.   1O~0          79            .3         20   33   23       9967       96        95          18        15.3           99N                     n1       a2.ao
RIEW ZEALAND       )*'2 b75S*I                   58         131.4        37   31   28        I4 on              zoo          24        331.4         1oo           8l         3        25.34W'
SW.3'RN              79     6.1  17.250        0.0          35.2         13I   30   30      qqb        99r      am           zBM       19.9          too           10'        roar    J1h5fl
EASTERN AFRICA
BOTRIJAA            Ni       34332    9206     5.0          22.0        41   34   22        40        amo        17          32        10.0           40           20        21         3.50
60210130            A3      4.2       235      2.Rb`        39.0        4]   25   27        25         29'       33          31        20.2           32            1X        37        3.00
CamEOS              NA      0.4   45 11        i.r.         25.0        49   29   22        40         16        40          30        -              as1          is        25         0.50
JiNsoOTT            54      0.4       480      1.0          31.9         73   26   ...    30           42        56          40        67.0           40           30         to        0.50
RTRTnPIA            at    372541    140b       2.qp         31.1        4%   21   20        11         42        10'         G1        19.1           93&          34        44         0.41
EARTA               Ni      37.4h,    421*     j.Aw3        20.36       65   *6   11        454       133        34          16        14.4           is           38         21         -
LPJOTHO             52       1.43'    41ib     5.1          ISAq        35   32   25        jib       1362       4l          48         94.6          46           21        23         3.10
NADACASCANt          7      6.        110      4.08         24.0         31   29   39       s0         gShx      33          35b        6.0           18           34        21         31.3bT3
P3A.1A%2            Al       &.1b    21Gb      1.5          13.4         38   14   2S       2sb        62        23          65         3.5           32            4        23         0.40
MAURITIUS           RI5        O 1.1*  ~70b    4.1          14.0        44   36    7        nab        93        72          23        11.0          300           10        22        31giO
KLUXDA              51       S.9b    2706      3.4          27.4         73   lb.  33       17b        53        10          40        34.0            9             .        31.       0.40
SEIOINLLE!S         79      0.6    3 .770      1.9          22.4'        348  138  308                                       25        - 
S41336L.A           A3      4.1       290      3.5          30t.1        sob  445   Ab    job         z22        so5         29b        0.05          sob          32h       22         3.00
SUDAN               so      1q2       laob     i.0          --          a6 3        ...    32         -it"1      68          34         3.4           44           16         340
SWAZTLAND           51      0.7b    9tb    1.R3'b           20.4         St   14.  15       635        93        50          33        33I.0          95           29         3n        1:00
TAWZANIA            n0      13.1      260      1.9          37.7         4  130   36        794        954       57          43        33.0           job           *         20'      n0-3n
UCOANDA             NI)    32.sb    3(3(3      --           3ft13        23h  j?6  zo32    45          342       61          34        -              3 7                   21         0.50
ZAIR                atI    2e.sb    2306       ty           26.4        -    --   10        345        76        25          10        23.0           40           in        ZN         2.00
ZAPETA              50       5.7b    jaib      4.%P         31.3        468  23   22        446        95        on         48         32.9           39           346        22        3.150
ZINRAIVE            R3       j.7b    7O00'       .1.        19.5        12   12    6   ~45             90        55          39        20.0           035          is        21         O.jO
WSIETER AFRICA
RSoIN                79      346b    321*    65'            315.0       43   21      3     I lb       42         30          AG        34.0           30           13        41         3.007
8112RKXEA           53      6.5       230b    2.W-          21.1        43   29   25        9          36        23          57        24.1           34            1        24         0.01
CAICEOON            78      6 2       590      2.97         54.0?        338  438  20'   -.            741       458         30?       33.08          30-          z4V       26         a.jo7
C.A.N.               79   7.:   28(1   1.8"7   20.683'   -   -   -    -                                -         -           65'?    -                -            --        -          0.7083'
CHAD                74      4.4       120      2.4k'        21.7b       -           - -    13          231       -           717                      --            3213     23         0.20?
CONGO               75       3.1      670      9.08"?       27.70?        - ~        -                           -           3453'                    30           --        4367       4.0083
camO                 77      0.6    1.4.20     j-1b3'        5.43'        -                                      -           46k?      -              --            -         I9b"      2.5083'
08A3IA               77      0.6      220      1.38"         6~5b        46   238   4a   to5           4o03'     908         27'?      44.7'          40           t2z'3'    37         -
CNA886              74      11.3      &oo      4.0?         I5.sb       -    -    -        -           71z       -           27w'?     -              --           345213    23          -
001536a              79      5.3      ZOOP    4.48P         -            258 258288    20              34        36          35        20.O'3'        as           16        29         7.00'
nonK  COAST         RI      A.z4   1.ol0b   30.0            43.0        33   AG   13    sob           60         56         43         25.0           47           338-3'    26         1.900
LINEEKA             so       3.9      320      4.1          39.6        43   23   24    30             32        32          35        20.0           16           22        20         2.90
maxi                at       1.06     190      4.2'         21.1'        38   23   31    10            20        60          44        t3.7           66            I         I3        0.9083'
OMAUITANIA           75      3*45     320k     5.3          36i.9        33   43   23      376         32        60          4.4       32.0           10            9        25         0.17
RICES               78       5.2      300      4.38         36.687       32' 438   38    N             17        36'        43'        38.7w          40            2        24b        0.20?,
NICERA              53    93.6b    760k        7.43'        36.0        -    -      132.6  56          93        70          36        19.5           46.7         22.5      30         2
SENEGAL             77       3.3      450      3.0          21.0        45   36   20       30          344213    -           A4367     -              20           10        23         2.204?
SIERR  LEONE        77       3.4      250      4.ob         16.06       -     -     -      335         372       -           35        23.1*          34           3521      22        fl.&Ob3
Tara0                78      2.4      400      6.3"'        26.19        308  28-  23'   IS            74        40          5&k?      38.0           32           32b'3'    Asb        1.a
LATIN AICEICA AND TIM3 CAXRSEBAN
AflTINA              76    21.3   2.210        2.1          30.9        438  338g  13m   935,          89        32          37        -              87           31         a        23.00
ARANAIAS            79      0.2   2.770        3.1          39.1         36   36   11    936           99        97          24        -              97           73        19        -
BARBADOS            78      0.2   2.680        8.5Y87       22.38       43&  33'  160   90            100?       99'         273       34929          998          783       20'       --
DoLIVIA             80       5.4      530      4.383'       10.3'       -          -     - 63          74?       -           207       -              --           153'      -         12.607
REAZIL              79   116.3    3,770        3J8           6.2        51    -    3       76          7383'     -           23'?       4.3b          631-         3383'     3487      12.62
CR11.3              76      30.9 3.9 1.go      326?         1l.ob        - -        -      -          3l95'z     -           34by      -              --           535'?y    iobv      31.90b7
C31L533A            so    26.7b  3.ja0b    3.1              23.0         33   20   20    *Ib           78        36          32         6.6           -            67        20        30.02'?
COSTA RICA           No      2.260  3.slob    8.4           31.1        60   27   33    90             93        77          32         3.5           77           60        27        34.00
cum                  76      4.5      -        8.0          31.0        --  -    -         96         112587    9o           36b7      -              9873bzy    13                    19.o2b3'
D0aJ2*1A68 REP.    so        5.3   1.030       2.9          13.0         39   21   22    6b            so        31          39         3.2           94           30        33        16.00
306D06              No      S.4b  31310        5.09         36.7        45   33   36    SI            05        -           35        12.6           36           67        36        29.00
EL SALVADORt         71      4.4      640      3.4by        23.iby      64    H   27    62             6250y    32           39        -              41           26623'    2767       7.901?
CVATUSLMA            78      6.8   I.oE0       1.7'?        12.6b       -    --   -        -           *95'?    -            3367      -                           I9 z5b'    10?y      3.30?
CR6A86               76   0.5   630   8.3b?   1333b?   -  -   -   -                                    99bxy3   -            326?   -                 -            59487   -            3.0067
RAITI               so       j.05     230      3.4"          7.98?      65    9    6    23b            30        20          43        19.0           62'           4'       27         0.80
NSIVIDRAS            78      3.5      520      3.5b?        14.3b7       12'  138  39'   60            SONY    308           4167      12.8'          68-          2387       19        8.003'
JAMNAICA             80      2.1    3*330      6.3          13.7         37   43   20    90            98         8          4O         2.3           93           at         22        5.00
mmXo3               so    65.5    3,680        4.7          17.0'        44   39   i3    92            95        33          44         9.3           86           36         17       10.30
NICARSODA            75      2.3*b   Glob      3.O-         14.01b      -    -    -        9Q6         SON2      24          375       -              -            26bx      30b       -
PANAMA              78       z.Sb  1.550b    s.3bVV         21.311?      42'  133'  13    a2b          9sb?      -           2357      13.6           838          3Q43'     276?    20.40b7
PA6054?             79       1.0    3,140      1.4"         14.2        42   17 20    84               63        32          28         3.3F          76           22        12         0.70
FM              w~~8    16.6   3.000      3.6          14.3        53   35   19    30            83         56          39         9.8           80           39        22        14.40?
TaxunADnaTom.    77          1.3    3.910      4.367         8.85?       48   32   20    95            9         93          30        30.5?          49           62         24       -
0310r6AT            73       2.9   2.300       2.3           9.4b       -    -    -        94         lUSh'      -           Z&b       -              -            64bz      -         17.808?
VENEDELMA           73     34.6    3.440       3.37         Ig.9b       -     -     -      32         1O6b'                  23        -              -            3Hbn       17       21.30?



-42-
Table I
Par 2 et 2
Cm.wannTv, foCTIUM laMaIuaM
Not fIU 1 1964
___                            ____               e  -nl ___                                1Ir ___ -.1
-r    I.                                                                                               I LroI
imnxPiIUS mcao                                   uuna                  iau 
oa ISOCTIUM   msamuw         AIHIT              mAT. FMr             UNIT am6  Pacasao.
ow   m               AN PRErr   15tNI1M3   LITEtACY FRMi" PR ntI l    PDanT  PnsnA    EAT! S                         sI tuaalarn  MaiMR iNam
35   Pr. CAPITA  PnRCUT GM TOT    UnRAL ALLOCATUD  1   Ta                RUN". COL           ETSY  3UCTI0N  PRUIA"  0  aP1PL.   UTiNS  RNL.
ERO lItUJL. (116)   0SDo TO rocoEnNTr   Put  NC  m1    (t)    RATIO   CYCLE                  Pon       Al PRCUT SUOSARY   nrIDo    PnR              rATIO
(3979) 113791 15SCT10   EEItlU                             (3676)   (1)        (1)      TnACS  CUICaPTTa         (2)         CZ)    ymaau        (2)
_    (3)  (2)      (3)          (63           (5)          ()        (7)1   (a)          (9)        (ID         (23         (32)      (33)    (34)
CHINA              *3 I.025.nh    ]job    3.1           7.1       33   *0   22       77b      77        42         2s         .0          63         Is         7        6.10
tm SIA             gI   I1 l3 b    520    2.1          9.3        70   24    6      362b                1        17        11.0          74         27        26        1.70
30VEA              32    3  3b, 1.631"    7.7"         20.         34  34  31        96       GO        93         63       36.0          o          34       1i        23.10
NALATSIA           44   1132.  I 1*nob    6.3          36.7        35   41"  I3-    70b       97'       97        26        II.SW         3          72        22       4.00
PAPUA N.C.         33     3.3w    n70      5.6         19.0       40   I7   22      -          n0       735       31-       11.0          1S         ale       21'       I.no
I9ILIPPIIS         79    4.lb6   69Ob    2.1'"        I3.0         64   36   -       7Sb       4        65         I I       7.3 1                   55        36      21.0n
*S1WobE            30     2.4   4.420      2.7          6.7        39   40  31      32        92        62        31         a.a         96          Ss        22       3.00
1u        tNt.     n7     0.2b    640      6.6"        39.0b       1   14   20       IS       73        6o        27       1I.1          40          20       i3         2.5O
TRAIAN             32    69.6b      06b   3.4          20.1       S5   1a  tO        366     InI        66         21        O."          44         66        In        4.O0
SOUT  ASIA                                                                                                                                           1          1        14
ELS                79    92.lb     90      I.I         30.157     SI         20     22b        3       -_         S3         1 .6        __           4        21       1.61
NMAN               so  1.2  o0  3.6       I3.    -  --    0    I2    -                                            -         -             --         -         --   -
IDIA               77   65.6       210     2.97         9.              --  -        36       7Y       -          4         -            --          211       -          .o11 t
NUAL               6!2    5.0      i         . 150b    1  _.4                        19       70        -          36       -            -           21        23        5.700
PAKISTAN           62    C7.jb    3606    2.0           7.0        U    20   24      22       10        41        30         5.9          56         21        IS        3.00
=N      c. niDeDC !A; AD  iNm AFRICA
AflIANINTAN  77    15.5     -        3.7         3.7        47  I3  IS        12        3ib      69         376      -             62           a       22i       1.007
ALCERIA            79   13.1   1.770       3.11"       12.3        3Ae  24*  21-    35        637       45        37         7.Ot         55Y        2W        26   3    707
ECTr               52    61.54    610    4.6",         1'9         31-  15Y  26a    44       7IS        moo        34-       9."          3          43-       190      37.00
G651CR             76     9.1   4.140      2.6         10.6b       317  26   21     -          7,7      --        29%        6.2?        _              .      27-7g    17 W.b07
In"                79    3i.9     -        5.707      614.17       ---              so       101ix     -          32-       -            ___         440       28       4.91047
3uq0               79    12.6   2.710      4.34W        6.907                --    -         100       -          28        -             -          4-Y       29@      3.300Y
1ID                113 I  34      4        6            3b 1 1   C-                 93        93        94        29        -            93          3i       13       11.00
ionA"              at3    2.26  1.42b    4.k                10.2   19   64   I6      7nb      57        as        32        15.1          -          51        la       3.90
L,,ANO             19     2.3     -                    18- 33.5-   -                -         96-       -         i9        -            - _                   -       27.60e7
14NKCe             64    21.3b    670b    4.0"         22.9        3S   4l   i9      35       57         9        311       15.1          -          136       Is       a.9o'
nN                 32       .b 56920b    2.5w          12.7w        -        -     -   6ob?   75-       63        21        -             W6         11        14
FRTniAL                  :S79  qb  2060  3.6        22.2        50   26   11      76        97       20         31-       12.3         33d         45Y       170      1.30'
_f-IA             71    22.1   2.100       3*7          4.27      -             -     -  93  3066u     -          216                    ON          34b6      22b     1o.Sobw
SrAIN              76    37.0  4*920       2.17        16.6'       _    _   -       -         g9b7      _         26qb       _           -           47b7      -       24.10b7
SIA                16     6.6   1.170      4.4P        10.1       39   25   26      U         37by.    30         35b                    s o         43b       23b     12.40
TUNISIA            79     6.4   1.130      7.07        19.0       42   39  13       62b      1olm       so        396       12. 1         30        3I-         10     6.00
u ?                613    47.5  1.230      3.1         16.2       So   22   24      736b    l1         77         33         6.n         55          26        11       *.00
T         A.R.     60      J.1     420     5.01W       12.0       94    7    I      21b       37   1 22           337       67.0         6s           3        20        1.10
fN  .D.3.          62     7.0b   4*0b    7.6            9.7       6*3  13-   As    53         61        34        25        22.0.        4           17        20       2.50
SUISAST FMU fuULOPIE SUIfrTIIUS
Member of Cautrias:                      64              91       70   S9   67      1l       92       611        9         65           75          91        6l      as
a-WI                                     (1.6-          (1.7-  (23-  (S-  (5-    (1-       (12-     (12-        (17-      (3.4-        (10-        (3-       (N-     (0.03-
3n.0)         54.33  94)   46)  33)   9")        39)       99)         77)      67.0)         100)       64) 4U)            29.0)
Osartileos Upppr:                         5.6           21.7      51   36   22      63       93        so        43        20            67         41        26       11.0
Phl.d.:                       6.0           16.3      63   26   39      53       33        63        35        13            65         26        22        3.7
Loser:                        3.0           31.0      16   21  13       23       bO       13          23        6            40         t4        19        1.0
Omertite leelatiou:                       1.1            5.4    6.3  7.1  4.5   28.0       19.0      22.5       7.0       5.6          23.5       16.1       3.5        3.0
Meas:                                     6.6           17.0     44   21   I6       53       76         9        16        16            62         13        23       6.9
Sta-ard Doa"tion:                         3.9            6.7      12   10    7     29        27        24        1        11            27         23         7       7.4
PodIan.                                   6.0           16.0     43   211  39       51       83        61        35        13           A5          26        22       1.7
SW:                                                  P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OOlliOT9S,
-    DATUM mAVAILASL                                                    A - DATUN PRIOR TO ISA   TEAr               S - NINlsTtr n3 KIDOATlON (iCE) aLY
. OCNI103E NIL Olt  CLICIU.                                         3 - DATUM NOe RECci  TN  MR          136   T - ImC ai  STATE C07ESHUr ONLY
t    DATD iQiDInoaaLZ                                                   1 - aMm          rICES                      W - PUBLIC Zt=niimi OtLY
*    IINCUCS PAf-TI   STr                                                    - Qr ENROL3J    RATIO                  r - I7CL5 OE1-AMC    s
V - CROS  ENmOLu          RATIO            T - In5CO SWOROS
P - CD
SOURCS:          Clsee_ I sed 2:  vmrid East Ate, or Edcatto,o sector f* 1.4 uo1lono.
Cel-. 3 to 14s  IVeld lest  eoAtlo  sector elosloso. Cover.nt soerces andlor the Unesce Sta-tltclcl Ye-rbeek.
Coparstrtte Education ot  ore us efl Is the  vsuleatlos of vrious education  yste  ad  analysim      r l-tb  otage  of educatl[oul d-evlo-psut bute r             srise
centries. e  ouesor. an the  beets of -tl  present data. crosa-ntlonal comparton ehauld bh  approached  Ith  ra-t c-tles.  Dtts  pro tead in the aboew table IhAe
bh    collected largely by lok  loleo_o  fre. gornent sources; the rescinder ore otoff  olato or data free taseto.   Ert frt have bees o.d. to *tond-rdl-
defiitionm  ed. uitbls  laits. to chec  the scracy of thb  data.  Ns,rthelma.  -uh dot. am otil loperfect tn *.- l rl c-ptt  and the anek to  erkig -a
laprome thee pregrmoeely -  the occasion of its  erational  re.  TIn the uem of them data, the follosion quaitfll tttoso ohould be kept In  ind:
(1)   -Efecatiesn  .s deflod 3. the table itncludes a11 dcatton  _ad tralsiog. both fec-I and son-forel.
(2)   -Prlery  educatio  ref et   to adation a  tbe firt lee  and  aae_ndory' education refer. to o11  education et the  secondary 11 regardlesa of t"e
(t... Xsearl. tchnical. agricultural).
(3)    Lltwerty rates  (eel. 6) are often obtaed fres country eooes. Te ney coutries the  amr  esly are                     t a  d it I  doubtful th-t ay   if oere
daflittel, of  Ilte-rac' h. bonI rllesd conetoteotly.
(4)   -Public  e-4dter  la  datIoo' (tou. 4 .5n 53 rfer to a11 capital and raeurroat *_peIdtrt- devoted to odoctbee by Public and quaa._ptpbIlc
a_  tic .
(5)    17e_rlleac ratIo   (cole. 7. 12 and 14) roFsr to school "er and o   the p-rcnto   of eligible chlidren enrolled full-ti- in the aprsoriato school.
public as prIvte by level.  Thy are otemn subject so .a -Ide srln of error In the dA lopig cortrio  o-nIt to  oritationa Is te acceuracy of baic
data (l.a. ao-peciric Ipulatin   d  rel              ).  trollot firt- freesatly ar  higbr than the ambr of oedents acnatll  is sebol.
Ormr      s otudos sy he Isceld  I" then ft"res and cr  Inflate the r.tioe.



RWANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
MIDDLE LEVEL INDUSTRIAL MANPOWER - SUPPLY AND DEMAND SITUATION (A2 and A3)
Table 2: SuDly of Middle Level Industrial Manpower from Technical Secondary Schools a/
Annual Output Capacity
School              Actual         Future b/                  Status/Remarks
A2    A3      A2      3
Kicukiro          60    60       80*    c/        Existing school; present A3 training to be discontinued.
Kanombe           20    60       60*    d/        Existing school being developed with aid from the Federal Republic
of Germany.
Save               -    40        -     72*       Existing school, expansion financed by ADB.
Kibungo            -     -        -     72*       New school, financing from ADB, completion possibly 1987.
Cyangugu           -     -        -     72        Project, finance sought from ADS, completion still uncertain.
Gikongoro          -     -       60      -        Turn-key project with aid from North Korea; as it involves a very
substantial Government input, Its status under the present circum-
stances must be considered uncertain.                                              W
Muhororo           -     -       60      -        New school, financing sought from EEC; as EEC comiLtment ls
contingent on results of a feasibility study, its present status is
at best uncertain.
Kibuye             -     -       30*     -        Project item under project IDA Education III.
Total minimum    80   160       170    144
maximum    ..    ..      290    216
Source:  Mission estimate based on information provided by schools and MINEPRISEC.
a/  Not including prlvate schools owing to their extremely low quality standards.
b/  Assuming that A3 level training will be discontinued in Kicukiro and Kanombe.
c/  Increase in A2-level training capaclty through utilization of present A3 level facilities for A2-level.
V   Deadline for reaching target capacity not as yet determined.
U - Figure retained for  Lninium output.



RWANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 3: Annual Supply and Demand for Middle Level Industrial Hanpower by 1992 a/
A2 Level        A3 Level
Estimate        EstLmate                  Remarks                                                    High
Low    High   Low
A. Source of Supply
Technical schools            290    170      216   144         see Table 1 including TSS Kibuye.
CERAIs and others             -      -       120    60         CERAIs and youth training centers destined for
rural training - spill-over effect.
Other centers                                 40    20         e.g., other ministries MINITRAP, MINICOM, and
ELECTROGAZ, etc.
On-the-job training           -      -        80    60
CFPP                          -      -        60    30         Assuming that two .*ourses of 9 months each will be
needed to reach fully qualified status.
Internal promotion and        40     20      120    50         Within enterprises, based on occupational
up-grading training                                            experience, and CFPP up-grading training.
Study abroad                  30      10      20    10
Total Supply                 360    200      656   374
B.  Manpower Needs
Plan estimate of needs       510    400      570   450         low - Third Plan, high - low plus 20Z
Replacement + private         90      50     240   180
sector growth
Total Needs                  600    450      810   630
C.  Deficit                      240    250      240   180
Source:  Mission estimate.                                                                                                        c 
a    1992 a assumed year of first graduates of new technical schools and end of Fourth Plan period.



RWANDA
EDUCATION lII
Table 4: ENROLLMENT GROWTH IN FORMAL EDUCATION 1979-1984
Post-Primary I/ and Secondary                                  Higher Education 2/
Primary      Post                                  Teacher                                                            Grand Total
GI-8      Primary    General       Technical      Training         Total        Univ.      IPN 4/        Total       Enrolluents
(a)        (b)            (c)           (d)
1978/79          515,712      11,805       9,451         2,442          1,906         25,604         760        216           976           542,292
Girls              48          71             33            24            49           50           10         13             9
Student/Teacher        61          21       (               15             s17 1                       6          4             6
1979/80          607,480      11,859       7,112         2,177          2,879         24,027         809        228         1,037           632,544
Girls X            48          70             30            29            44           51           11         13            11
Student/Teacher        61          21       4               13             >              16           7          4             6
1980/81          704,924      10,005       5,022         2,065          3,580         20,672 5/      908        188         1,096           726,692
Girls X            48          59             28            35            45           52           10         11            11
Student/Teacher        59         18                        12             >              14           8          3             7
V-
1981/82          743,067      10,330       4,156         3,225          5,124         22,835         696        515         1,211           767,113
Girls              48          60             19            37            48           47           14          9            12
Student/Teacher       57          18        C14 1                                         16           8          8             7
1982/83          747,172      16,797 5,'  5,127          3,741         5,362          31,027         794        523         1,317           779,516
Girlu X            48          62             21            26            38           40           15         14            15
Student/Teacher        55         11        <         -    14              W              13           7          8             7
1983/84          761,955      23,474       5,488         3,840          5,433         38,235         928        440         1,368           801,558
Girls X            48          46             19            40            45           34           16         17            16
Student/Teacher        54          15       4       _       16                            14           6          4             5
Source  MPS Statistique de l'Enseignemente 1977/78-1983/84; MES, Statistiques de 1'Enseignement Superieur, 1984
1/  Post-primary rural handcraftu courses grades 9-11.
2/  Excluding students studying abroad. The Military College enrolled about 100 students and the Nyakibanda Seminary
for priests had 140 students.  In addition over 600 students pursued higher education courses abroad.                                           I!
3/  Studentiteacher ratio including double shift for grades 1-3 equal to about 42 using full-time equivalent (1983/84).
4/  Institut Pfdagogique National was transferred to become the basis of NUR Ruhengeri campus from 1981/82.
5/  Introduction CERAI, including CERAR and Sections Familiales



RWANDA
EDUCATION III
Table 5 (a): Government Expenditure. on Education 1979 - 19R4
(FRw Millton, current prices)
1979            1980          1981          1992 1/        1983           1984            1984          1985
Actual          Actual        Actual        Actual         Actual         Budwet        Actual/Est.    Budget 2/
1. Total Government
Recurrent Expenditures              9,162.2         11,346.0    15,599.3        16,700.1       16,368.3       18,650.1        16,935.7      18,806.3
2. Education                            2,1R6.7          2,490.4      4,319.9       4,481.9        f,491.3         5,118.5        4,75R.8        5,218.1
(HINEPRISEC)                                                                   (3,912.0)    (3,910.2)        (4,472.7)      (4,199.4)    (4,486.5)
(MINESUPRES) 3/                                                                  (569.9)       (581.1)         (645.R)         (570.4)       (731.6)
3. Education as Z of Total
Recurrent Expenditures                  23.9            21.9          27.7          26.R           27.4           27.5            28.1           27.R
4. Total Government
Capital Expenditures                2,449.6          1,977.6       2,512.1       3,096.4       2,643.1         3,424.5         2,519.7       2,860.0
5. of which Education                     261.1            410.9        427.9         402.4          311.9           299.3          o.. 5/         173.8
mncl. (Primary/Secondary)                                                        (261.0)       (236.1)         (165.1)          ...           (91.7)
(Rtgher Education) 3/                                                     (141.4)         (75.8)        (134.2)                         (82.1)
6. Education as I of Total
Capital Expenditures                    10.7             20.         17.0          13.0           11.8            8.7            .               6.1
7. Total Expenditures
on Education 4/                     2,447.8          2,901.3       4,747.7       4,RR4.3        4,803.2        5,417.8            ,.         5,391.9
ncl. (Primary/ Secondary)                                                      (4,173.0)     (4,146.3)       (4,637.R)          .,.        (4,578.2)
(Higher Fducation) 3/                                                     (711.3)        (656.9)        (780.0)            .          (813.7)
8. GNP                                 96,172.9       108,00n.o   117,oon.o       130,546.0    135,135.0        173,592.0
9. Total Expenditures 4/
on Education as 2 oT GNP                 2.5              2.7          4.1           3.7           3.6             3.1
Source : Ministry of Finance, MINEPRISEC, MINESUPRES
1/  Including breakdown primary/secondary and higher education from 1982 following establishment of Ministry of Righer Education.
T/ As proposed by Government to Parliament (but not yet approved by Parliament).
3/  Information provided by HINESUPRES and including actual expenditures on both higher education and sctentific research (expendttures on
scientific research are relatively small, e.g., a total of about FRw 25 million In 1984 budget).
4/  This ts an undereatitatton as education expenditures financed by foreign aid do not appear in Government budget.
5/  Not yet available.



ANNEX 1
- 47 -                        Table 5(b)
RWANDA
EDUCATION III
Table 5 (b): Actual and Projected Government Expenditures on Education 1983 to 1995
(RwF Million, Constant 1983 Prices)
1983            1990             1995
(Actual)
1. Total Government
-Recurrent Expenditures                16,368.3         20,130.0         23,320.0
2. of which Education                     4,491.3           o,290.0          8,060.0
(of which MINEPRISEC)                 (3,910.2)         (5,470.0)        (7,020.0)
3. Education as Z of Total                    27.4              31.2            34.6
Recurrent Expenditures
4. Total Government
Capital Expenditures                   2,643.1           3,020.0          3,500.0
5. of which Education                        311.9            240.0            280.0
6. Total Government Expenditures
on Education 1/                        4,803.2           6,530.0          8,340.0
7. GNP                                  135,135.0         177.830.0        216,350.0
8. Total Expenditures Education 1/
as Z of GNP                                 3.6              3.7              3.9
Source : 1983 - Ministry of Finance and MINEPRISEC.
1990-19Q5 - Mission's estimate on the basis of the following assumptions:
(a) 3% annual increase in Government recurrent expenditures;
(b) 5% annual increase in Education recurrent expenditures;
(c) Government capital expendItures estimated at 152 of
Government recurrent expenditures;
(d) Education capital expenlitures estimated to decline at level
of 8% of Government capital expenditures (as compared with
8.7% in 1984 budget, 11.8% in 1983 and 13Z in 1982); and
(e) 4% annual increase in GRP.
1/ This is an underestimation as education expenditures financed by foreign aid do
not appear in Government budget.



RWANDA
EDUCATION III
Table 5 (c): MINFPRISPC Recurrent Expenditures by Level and Type 19RI and Iq4
(RvF Million, current prtces)
19R1 (Actual)                              1984  (Budget)
Primary and                                 Primary and
CERAI      2  Secondary  2    Total         CERAI       2  Secondary   X   Total
Education
Teaching and Schools Admin.   1,775.3    77    310.0   36   2,085.3    3,292.4    90    V85.4    55  3,677.8
Teaching Materials                 120.0      5      30.0    5      150.0        9R.7      3      30.6      4    129.3
Administration                            69.1      3     73.4   13       142.5        78.0      2    1o7.n    15    185.0
Social Services
Boarding Costs                                       115.0   21      115.0        -         -    151.7    22    151.-
Other
Maintenance                         212.4      9      25.0    5       237.4         1.0     -      25.0      4      26.0
Teacher Re-training a/               15.0      1                       15.n         8.R     -      -         -      R.0
Miscellaneous                       120.7      5.                     120.7       164,4      5      0.1      -    164.5
Total                                 2,312.5            553.4          2,865.9    3,642.5            699.8          4,342.3
X                            81%              192                         842              162
Source: MINEPRISEC
a/ Various administration aspects relating also to secondary education.
Note: Some figures are not fully comparable with those in Tables 5(a) and 5(b) as some of the overhead costs (of
about 1Rw 100 million per year) have not been apportioned between primary and secondary levels.



ANNEX1
Table 5(d)
- 49 -
RWANDA
EDUCATION III
Table 5 (d): HINESUPRES Recurrent Budget 1981-1984
(RwF million, current prices)
1981      z       1983      z      1984       Z
(Actual)          (Actual)         (Budget)
- National University of Rwanda (NUR), a/
excluding Faculties of Nedicine
and Law and CEAER CURPHAMETRA        154       68       223       61 )
)  373 c/  93 c/
-  Faculty of Medicine                   55        24      116       32 )
-  Faculty of Law                        10         4       10        2.5    10      2.5
-  CEAER       )                          3         1        8        2       8       2
) Research
-  CURPHAMETRA )                          6         3       10        2.5    10      2.5
Total                  228               367               401
-  Scholarchips                         115                159              182
Grand Total b/                       343                526              583
Source: MINESUPRES
a/ NUR budget was increased by RwF 5 million in November 1981 with establishment of
MINESUPRES.
bJ Excludes overhead costs of NINESUPRES (about RwF 25 million).
c/ The budget of the Faculty of Medicine since 1984 is included in that of the NUR.
Note : Total MINESUPRES recurrent expenditures given in this table are not fully
comparable with those given in Table 5(a) as they exclude scientific research
expenditures as well as overhead costs.



RWANDA
EDUCATION III
Table 5 (e): Education Recurrent Budget by Level (1980 - 1985)
1980 (Actual)        1983 (Actual)         1984 (Budget)         1985 (Budget)
RwY  ul.       X      RwF ail.       x     RvFall.         Z      WF all        I
Primary education  nd                 I
Post-primary education a/           1,646.9      70       3,130.0      72      3,642.5       73      3,504.8      70
(CERlI)
Secondary education a/                429.2      18         625.1      15         699.8      14        803.9      16
Higher Education                      274.9      12         581.1      13         645.8      13         731.6      14
TOTAL a/                       2,351.0               4,336.2               4,988.1               5,040.3
Source:  MINEPRISEC and MINESUPRES
al Figures are Lot fully comparable with some in Tables 5(a) and 5(b) as somae of the overhead costs (of about RvF
100 million in each year) have not been apportioned between primary and secondary levels. The overall
percentages, however, well reflect the shares of each level.
cr1



ANNEX 1
-~ 51 -Table 6(a)
RVANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUWNRY
(FRI Million)           (US '000)                   Z Total
7 Foreisn   Am
Local Foreign Total    Local Foreisn  Total   Exehwi    Costs
A. TOOF S ED. MATERIALS
DEPOT, KJGALI                      46.6   93.5  140.1   509.3 1v021.5 14530.8          67       10
REGIIONAL DEPOTS                    31.0   33.7   64.7   339.3   368.2   707.5         52        5
EDUCATION MATERIALS                 17.3  1766.  214.0   189.5 2v149.0 24338.5         92       16
Sub-Total TEXTBOOKS I ED. MATERIALS   95.0  323.9  418.8 1,038.1 3,538.7 4576.7           77       31
B. TSS - KIDOTE
TFOUICAIL SEC SCHOOL(TSS)          167.9  313.6  481.6  1,935.3 3t427.7 5,263.0        65       36
Sub-Total TSS - KIBUE                 167.9  313.6  481.6 1835.3 3,427.7 5,263.0         65       36
C. NVTC - KIGALI
N.V.T.C.                            72.3  156.8  229.1   789.6 1714.1 2v503.7         68       17
UNDP EXPERTS                        15.7   88.1  103.8   171.6   963.1  19134.7        85        8
* Stb-Total NVTC - KIWA1I             88.0  245.0  332.9   961.2 2,677.1  3P638.4         74       25
D. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
STUDIES/ INST.DEEL.                 12.1   38.0   50.1   132.1   415.1   547.2         76        4
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION              13.6   47.9   61.4   148.2   522.7   670.9         78        5
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL SUPPQRT       25.6   85.8  111.5   230.3   937.8 1I218.1          77       a
Total BASELINE COSTS                   376.5  968.2 1,344.7 4,114.9 10,581.3 149696.2       72     100
Physical Contingencies               31.7   50.9   82.6   346.7   556.2    02.9          62        6
Price Continsencies                  98.2  222.5  310.7   963.9 2,431.9 3,395.8          72       23
Total PROJECT COSTS                    496.4 1,241.6 1,739.0 5,425.4 13,569,5 18,994.9      71     129
Mardh 17, 1986 10:43



- 52 -                               ANNME I
RVANDA                                 Table 6(b)
THIR  EDCATION PROJ
PROJECT COtT 511111 
(FRV Million)           (US$ '000)                   Z Total
2 Foreim  1s
Local Forein Total    Local Foreign  Total   Exchanse   Costs
cn   in==     i=                                 =n _   -_
A. TEBOOKS 1 ED. MATERtIALS
DPT, KIGALI                         46.6   93.5  140.1   509.3 19021.5 1,530.8          67       10
REGIONAL DEPOTS                     31.0   33.7   64.7   339.3   368.2   707.5           52       5
EDUCATION HATERIALS                 17.3  196.6  214.0   1899.5 2i149.0 2,339.5         92       16
Sub-Tatal TEXTBOKS I ED. MATERJALS     95.0  323.9  418.8 1,038.1 3i538.7 49576.7          77       31
B. TSS - KI9IJYE
TECHNICAL SEC SCHNOL(TSS)          167.9  313.6  481.6  1v835.3 3,427.7 5W263.0         65       36
Sub-Total TSS - KIBDIJE               167.9  313.6  481.6 1,935.3 3e427.7 5,263.0          65       36
C. NUTC - KIGALI
N..T.C.                             72.3  156.0  229.1   789.6 1714.1  2,503.7         68       17
UNDP EXPERTS                        15.7   88.1  103.8   171.6   963.1  1,134.7          85       8
Sub-Total NYTC - KIGALI                88.0  245.0  332.$   961.2 2677.1 3,638.4           74       25
D. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
STUDIES/ INST.IVVEL.                12.1   38.0   50.1   132.1   415.1   547.2          76        4
PROJECT ADMJNISTRATION              13.6   47.8   61.4   148.2   522.7   670.9          78        5
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT        25.6   85.8  111.5   290.3   937.8 1t218.1          77        8
Total BASELINE COSTS                    376.5  96B.2 1,344.7 4,114.9 10,581.3 14,696.2       72      100
Physical Contingenwies                31.7   50.9   82.6   346.7   556.2   902.9          62        6
Price Contigencies                    88.2  222.5  310.7   963.9 2,431.9 3v395.8          72       23
Total PROJECT COSTS                     496.4 1,241.6 1,738.0 5,425.4 13v569.5 18994.9      71      129
March 17, 1986 10_46



R li A 11 I A
tHIRe IEA*TIOM PI0.CT
Sumarv  nA t bv Proet Co_wmnt
IFRVl Killian)
TEXTIiOS I FC. MATERIALS  tSS - KIIUTE   WTC - KIM.LI        INStlTUTflW. UUT                      Pts1iel
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Continnecin
DEPOT, RE6101W   ECTI0N 110tNI3!AL SEC             LNW      StIlIES/      PRoECT
111L.  DFOrTS  MTFRIALS   SO .(TSS)  IIN..T1.C  EXPRTS  INlSt.XL., AHINISTRATIN  Total             :      omt
_mn cns.s f..n.    n.3.n  ..si. ..    .i .n  gsnnfli   _in.=    __l  .. _
1. IlSEITMff COSTS
A. CIVIL  MO
Utot lr*s                                                      9.1     11.6         -           43.S     23.7        -            -              -      6.1I  10.0    3.6
kAt.1c I Cin l                                                74.1     52.6         -          14M.    113.5         -            -              -    393.1   10.0   39.3
braItorin                                                        -        -300                              -                     tiO, 00.0   10.0    1.0
HSasaI                                                         1.4        -         -           50.7         -       -            -              -    52.1   10.0    5.2
5ub-Toel CIVIL WM                                                34.6     U.?          -          320.3   142.2         -            -              -   611.4   10.0   61.1
1. fUlTUIE                                                        7.2      0.1                      1979      7.2                    -              -     34.4   5.0      1.7
C. ESJ1PIINIiEHIOUES
fmiimit                                                        7.3      0.1                     56.5     51.7        -            -              -    123.2   5.0      6.2
Tu9&s                                                            -        -     III'S              -        -        -            -              -    111-5    5.0    5.6
Vohicif                                                          -        *       ,3                *       .        -            -              -     I0-T    5.0    0.5
Sub-Totul IMJIPI   AT/IlLE3                                      7.3      0.1     120.9           56.5    60.3               -                     -   245.7    5.0   12.3
3, iPA     I PRINTIND MTERIILS
PwOr for Textbookbs Noo                                          -        -      7.9                        -        -            -              -    7.    5.0        3.9            L
Printinr  httriol                                                -        -      142               -         -       -            -              -     14.2    5.0    0.7 
hTotal PAM  I MlPiWITJ  MTERIALS                                   -        -      93.1              -        -        -            -                    93.1    5.0     4.7
to TEUIUL ASSISTAUIE
EJIGIIT3                                                      13,2        -         -           16.0        -   103.           444.           33.0   210.5   0.0        e0
FELLOtIHIP                                                    22.6        -         -           52-6      15.1                  5.7              -    *.1    0.0       0.0
Su-Toltaul TEUICM. MAIITACE                                      35.8        -                      M 8.3    15.1  103.3          50.1           33,0   306.7    0.0    0.0
F. MOH. AS llMIN SIfflIR1SION SERVICES /a
For IfC                                                          -        -                      9-6  -              -            -                     9.6    5.0     0.5
For  SC!                                                       1.7      0.4         -            6.4       4.3       -            -              -     12.7   5.0      0.6
Sdt-otal AMe. NO ENI2       U  SIPIRISIWN SOICS /a                1.7      0.4         -           16.0       4.3       -            -              -       .3    5.0      1.1
9. w11111  1T                                                       -        -         -              -         -       -            -           2t.4    23.4    5.0       1.4
H. tUW t oE 0. HAT.                                              2.9        -         -              -         -       -            -              -      2.3  10.0    0,3
Totul IWl TWEUT MTS                                                140.1     64.7     214U0          481.6    229.1   103.8          50-1           61.4  134447    6.1    32.6
Total M1IE COSTS                                                    140.1    64.7      214.0          481.6   229.1   103.3           50.1           61.4  W.344,7    6.1    32.6
Phliwcal Contlnuncles                                              9.6      6.4      10.7            36.7     17.8       -            -            1.4    32.A    0.0    .o0
Price Continwwinu                                                 25.7     13.5      51.1          12i.9    51.1   70.3             5.2            6.3   310.7    5.9    11.3
Totl PRDIECT COTS                                                   175.3    34.7      276,5          647.1    305.0   124.6          55.3           69,6  1.733,0    5.8  100.9          ; I
Tam                                                               15.4     11.8         -           60.3      26.3       -            -              -    114.3   9.1    10.4
Foriuin Exduw                                                    115.4    43.7      256.6          416U1    266   106.2            41.9           54.3  1241.6    5.0    62.0
/a  for ei,ervleion mIll



ANNX 1
Schedule I
5                              Page 1 of 2
RWANDA III
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
A. Project Implementation
Financed
No.    Specialists                     Staff Years Planned Period      by
1     Expert Adviser/Accountant           5.0     01/1987-12/1991   IDA
B. Textbook Distribution
(a)         Specialists
Expert(s) in Printing Techniques   2.0      01/1987-12/1991   IDA
(b)         Fellowship Training
4     Photocopier Operators               2.0     01/1987-12/1987   IDA
2     Administrators: Organization        2.0     01/1987-12/1987   IDA
and Management, Distribution
DepOt and Management
1     Editor                              1.0     01/1987-12/1987   IDA
2     Management Technicians and          2.0     01/1987-12/1987   IDA
Printing Machine Fitters
1     Printer                             2.0     06/1987-06/1988   IDA
C. Technical Secondary School (TSS)
(a)         Specialists
1     Director                             2.0    01/1989-12/1990   IDA
(b)         Fellowship Training
4     Mech. engineering, Machines and      8.0    09/1987-08/1989   IDA
engines, Machine components,
Automation
6     Technical drawing, Strength of      12.0    09/1988-08/1990   IDA
materials, Construction (metal
& mechanical), Metrology, Elec-
tricity, Electronics
4     Mech. engineering, Machines and      8.0    09/1989-08/1991   IDA
engines, Machine components,
Automstion



-'55 -
ANNEX 1
Schedule 17
Page 2 of 2
Financed
No.    Specialists                      Staff Years Planned Period      by
D. National Vocational Training Center (NVTC)
(a) Vocational Training Experts
1     Chief Technical Adviser              4.0     01/1987-09/1990   UNDP
1     Planner/Programmer                   2.0     01/1987-03/1989   UNDP
1     Extension & Apprenticeship           2.0     01/1988-12/1989    IDA
1     Mechanics                            2.0     04/1989-03/1991   UNDP
1     Welding/sheet metal work             2.0     04/1989-03/1991   UNDP
1     Electricity                          2.0     04/1989-03/1991   UNDP
1     Auto-mechanics                       2.0     04/1989-03/1991   UNDP
1     Carpentry                            2.0     04/1989-03/1991   UNDP
(b) Fellowship Training
1     Director                             0.5     10/1988-03/1989   UNDP
1     Chief, Training                      0.5     04/1989-09/1989   UNDP
6     Workshop trainers (10 months each) 5.0       06/1988-04/1989   UNDP
- Mechanics, Welding/sheet
metal work, Electricity,
Auto-mechanics, Carpentry,
Building Construction
E. HINEPRISEC
Fellowship Training
3     MINEPRISEC Inspectors                3.0  (  09/1987-08/1988    IDA
(  09/1988-09/1989    IDA
(  09/1989-08/1990    IDA
F. Studies
(a) Monitoring Textbook
Distribution & Cost-sharing    0.3       01/1988...01/1990  IDA
(b) Improved School Inspection
& Management                    0.5      09/1987-02/1988    IDA
(c) Improved Educational
Administration                  0.7      09/1987-06/1988    IDA
(d) Evaluagion/preinvestment        1.5      09/1987 ... 08/1990  IDA
Total UNDP Specialists         16.0
Total UNDP Fellowships          6.0
Total IDA Specialists          16.0
Total IDA Fellowships          40.0



MIANDA - TRIRD EDUCATION PRWJECT
rIPLENTATIOf SCHEDULE Of PHYSICAL COMPONENTS
FISCAL TEAR (July I-June 30)                1986           1987     |      1988          1989           190       |    1991            1992
CAILNDAR TEAR                   1985           1986           1987           1988           1989           I90          1991
Effectiveness    0 (07/01/86)                                            Closing Date (12.31.1991) 0
TRITBOOI DtSTRISUTXON DIPOTS
Construction Depot in Kighlit OO                  f   of - - -  __ xxxxxx           xx xx
Conatruction Regional Depots (10)          00 00 00   E  to -  -    xx xx xx xx  xK xx xx
Equtpmnt                                      OO   Of of Of u      _  . *--  xxxx   xx xx
manager                                                              xxxxxx   xx  xx Zxx           N XX X  Xs    XX Xxu XX XX       XX   XX xx
TECRIICAL ECONDART SCROOL (KIBT)
Civil Wotrs                               t//l oe           of 9- _   *-  xx   x       xx xx xx    x xx
Furniture                                                       00   t   f    -    *--xx  xx   xx xx
Equipmnt                                      //00                   of I      -    *--uxxx    xx xx
Director                                                                                           xx xx xxxx   x  xx xx xx
Four 2 years fellowships                                                                  _
Six 2 yeers fellowships
Four 2 yeare fellowships                                                                                     =,
NATIONAL VOC. TIATIHIM CENMR
Civil orks                                 /o//               r      *--xx  xx   xx xx xx xx   xx xx
Furniture                                                       00   of to    _             xx    *x xx
equipment                                     //00                   of so    -    *--xs xx   xx xx
Chief TechniScal Adviser                                        xx   xx xx  xx xx   xx xxX xxXXXX    xx xx
Planner & Extension (2 experts)                                                           _
Five Departent Reads
Felowships
CIVIL WOKS                                                              PURNITUPROIPHPENT                                TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
//////  Appointmnt of Consultants (professional services)               //////  Appointmnt of Consultants                 xxxxxx  In Pout
000000  Brief, eSts selection                                           000000  Lists
Off##D  Design - Bid docments                                           GHDI00  Did documnts
TSender, evaluation, award                                      *---  Tender, evaluation, award
xzxxxx  Construction                                                    xxxxxx  Manufacture, delivery



- 57 -
ANNEX I
Schedule 3
RWANDA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT US$ MILLION
FISCAL YEAR   QUARTER     DISBURSEMENT    ACCUMULATE    UNDISBURSED
1987 1/       1            0.2                           15.4
2            0.2             0.4          15.2
3            0.3             0.7          14.9
4            0.3             1.0          14.6
1988          1            0.4             1.4           14.2
2            1.0             2.4          13.2
3            1.2             3.6          12.0
4            1.4             5.0          10.6
1989          1            1.4             6.4            9.2
2            1.4             7.8           7.8
3            1.4             9.2           6.4
4            1.2            10.4           5.2
1990          1            1.0            11.4           4.2
2            1.0            12.4           3.2
3            0.8            13.2           2.4
4            0.8            14.0           1.6
1991          1            0.4            14.4            1.2
2            0.4            14.8           0.8
3            0.2            15.0           0.6
4            0.2            15.2           0.4
1992          1            0.2            15.4           0.2
2            0.2            15.6            _
I/ July 1, 1986.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
RWANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Textbook/Teaching Materials (Supply and Distribution)
Goals of the Proposed Scheme
1.          The goals of the textbook/teaching materials supply and
distribution system are, inter alia, to provide for primary and CERAI
students: (a) by December, 1991 one textbook per subject for every two
students; (b) by September, 1989 and thereafter on a continuous yearly
basis, a minimum of basic materials (exercise books, pencils etc.); (c)
adequate trunk storage facilities for books in each classroom (about 18,000
classrooms); and (d) additional educational materials as requested by the
parents' association or the communes. The textbook scheme would be
financially self supporting.
General Concept of the Proposed Scheme
2.          The procurement of all textbooks and educational materials
would be centralized in Kigali and would fall under the responsibility of
IMPRESCO (para. 4.03). The goods would be packed in Kigali in sealed boxes
(one box per school) to be delivered to the particular school via the
regional depots. The empty boxes would remain with the school and serve as
storage for the textbooks (one for each classroom).
3.          The proposed project would finance the initial procurement of
paper for printing of textbooks and exercise books. Parents would pay a
yearly fee of RwF 200-300 (US$2-3) for transfer to a School Supplies
Revolving Fund to be established in the National Bank of Rwanda. The fees
would cover the cost rent of textbooks.
Requirements/Allotments per School
4.          IMPRESCO would establish and procure the yearly required
textbooks and materials on the basis of the overall student population.
This activity should be scheduled to ensure delivery by the suppliers to
the central depot before July for the textbooks and before October for the
materials. Ten months prior to the start of each school year, the
projected September intake per school and per grade is available from the
MINEPRISEC. The requirements in textbooks and materials for each
individual school would, therefore, be established sufficiently in advance
to facilitate accurate MINEPRISEC and IMPRESCO planning, timely procurement
and production.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
5.          The distribution to each school of the goods would be scheduled
as follows:
(a)  In July/August of each year, all textbooks programmed
to be distributed for that particular year and half of the
education materials.
(b) In December/January, the remaining materials programmed to
be distributed for that particular year and additional
educational materials ordered by the schools oL communes.
Central and Regional depots
6.          In addition to ample storage space and offices, the central
depot is designed to accommodate about 1800 boxes: one for each school.
The name of the school and a "record/list" of textbooks/materials to be
shipped would be clearly marked or attached to each box. To avoid the need
for large bulk storage space and to even out the work flow at the central
depot, the goods would be distributed into the boxes immediately after
delivery by the suppliers. The content of each box would be recorded on
the above named *record/list".
7.          Once a box is full or complete, the detailed invoice would be
enclosed, then it would be sealed and the content and price affixed. Once
80 boxes (equivalent to 10 palets or one truck load) are sealed, they would
be dispatched to the regional depots.
Finance and Cost Recovery
8.          The project would finance:
(a) the transport/storage boxes;
(b) the initial stock of printing paper and printing
materials;
(c) the construction and equipment of the central depot in
Kigali and the ten regional depots;
(d) the technical assistance for an expert adviser/accountant,
and experts in printing techniques required to set up the
system.
9.          In addition to providing the delivery of the boxes from the
regional dep8ts to the individual schools, the parents would finance the
following:
(a) the full cost of the educational materials;
(b) a yearly fee corresponding to about 25% of the cost of
total required textbooks including teacher's guides (RwF
200-300).
(c) the transport costs from the central depot to regional
depots.
The parents' association or the communes (where no parents' association
exists) would be responsible for collecting the required fees from the
parents.



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
10.         As mentioned in paragraph 7, the amount to be paid by the
ichool/parents will be written on the box. A detailed lnvoice would be
included in the box. The various communes would be informed of the arrival
of the boxes at the regional dep8t. The communes or parent associations
would send representatives to the regional depots. The representative
would deposit the due amount at the local bank for transfer to the School
Supplies Revolving Fund and the box would be released to him on
presentation of the bank's receipt.
Procurement
11.         The printing of paper, printing materials and boxes would be
procured in accordance with Bank Group Procurement Guidelines. Because the
MINEPRISEC has its own printing works (IMPRESCO), the printing of the
textbooks would be performed by IMPRESCO. This arrangement is, however,
contingent upon the management and status of IMPRESCO being improved and
acceptable to the World Bank Group.
Transport/Storage
12.          The transport of the boxes from the central dep8t in Kigali to
the regional dep8t would be performed by a private haulier after local
competitive bidding. The transport from the regional dep8ts to the schools
would be the responsibility of the schools. This transport could be done
either by the communes, the parents' association, the schools themselves,
or contracted by any of the above to the private sector. Each box would
weigh about 75 kg and its content would be divided into small parcels
weighing no more than 5 kg each. These parcels and the empty box could,
therefore, be hand-carried by the students if no transport is available or
if the school is not accessible by road.
13.         The School Supplies Revolving Fund amount would be used for
replenishment of:
(a) cost of paper for textbook and teaching manuals;
(b) cost of paper for exercise books;
(c) cost of basic education materials;
(d) cost of plates, ink, etc. following consumption of these
items supplied by CIDA; and
(e) cost of transport from the central to regional dep8ts.



ANNEX 3
- 61 -
RWANDA
EDUCATION III
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Education Sector
1. PNUD (UNDP). Universite et developpement au Rwanda: Elements pour
servir a l'evaluation, la rfforme et la planification de l'enseignement
superieur au Rwanda (Le Thanh KhoI), septembre 1984.
2. IBRD. Republic of Rwanda: Education Sector Memorandum. June 28, 1985
(White Cover Report No, 5276-RW).
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1. Republique Rwandaise. Troisieme projet 6ducation: Fiche de preparation
de projet, juillet 1984 (Project Preparation Report).
2. MINEPRISEC. Reseau de distribution de l'equipement scolaire au Rwanda:
Etude des besoins et de factibilite, fevrier 1985 (Commission Report on
Textbooks/education materials).
3. MINEPRISEC. Programmation des cadres ruraux necessaires au
d6veloppement agricole au Rwanda 1983-1997, d6cembre 1982.
4. MINEPRISEC. Investigations sur les comptes de l'imprimerie scolaire au
31 decembre 1984 (HELIOS), d6cembre 1985.
C. Selected Working Papers
Architectural and Education Working Papers.



IV 
RWANDA                                                                                /
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                  )
A~~~~~~~~~~~AR
_   _                                                                                                      1-1'';"  1;4g,o  \  I  C
RWA  9 A-  '                                                                     ZA[R  
...J.'  *~*                                                                     ARE
_ndia ...h.-'
Ocean,,/gE,,,.,,                                           X
"'~ ~ ~~~~~~GF 7'-    .i \                                                                    ..' 
WS.h,  ... -  ..- .. -:-_ - 
-    ! s- .   f- 
,, S_, ,, .,_~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R -r.i  
[    .~...l... .S,.    
4e   |   I  #   }   _e5;;.F   ...............................     /~



IBRD  19109
- 51s' 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ml ......,.. .....
.,lA~~~~~~.
)           Ii  t.,  A   r-j  ji  2.5           ,                -,__-                 /                    \
('                                           J             /'g
A..-             /TAN/,ANI A
RE)                                    )          ,                      r  
*:  /  d   rA             t                %            ^ ^ X~~~~~~~~~~~~A  a .,  R A   .
* ,,N / W \ r Hr .5-  t-t                                   N A 7  J N A L
|  |              <            /         Xf                   -.      .      A R K
-xl
QLV-                                                                                  A   N A      N "  I
| *  .  !   it   -1r e   q.  2    _-t_A$fi*
taxfrl   9  \  2-~~~-  if   !A.Aj                                        P
*  .                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           S...,. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ - ---- --        
_J ~ ~~~~  'i. S                                                                                   -- -1'J,4  
- !.i  -  at<4             s
7                  .A
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                         I
1!* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .   
N~~~~~~~~ U/ ;ST18



