Doament of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13641
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1683-RW)
OCTOBER 27, 1994
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(period average)
Currency unit: Rwanda Franc (RwF)
1985: US$1.00 = RwF 101.26
1986: US$1.00 = RwF  87.64
1987: US$ 1.00 = RwF  79.67
1988: US$ 1.00 = RwF  76.45
1989: US$ 1.00 = RwF  79.98
1990: US$1.00 = RwF  82.60
1991: US$1.00 = RwF 125.14
1992: US$1.00 = RwF 133.35
1993: US$1.00 = RwF 144.25
MEASURES
1 meter                =         3.28 feet
1 kilometer            =         0.62 mile
1 square kilometer     =         0.39 square mile
1 hectare                        2.47 acres
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CERAI              Centres d'enseignement rural et artisanal integr
Centers for Integrated Rural and Artisanal Education
DEP                Direction de l'enseignementprimaire
Directorate of Primary Education
ILO                International Labor Organization
IMPRISCO           Imprimerie scolaire - School Print Shop
MINEPRISEC         Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
MINESUPRES         Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
MILNIFIN           Ministry of Finance and Economy
MINI-FOP           Ministry of Public Service and Professional Training
MINITRASO          Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
NBR                National Bank of Rwanda - central bank
NUR                National University of Rwanda
NVTB               National Vocational Training Board
NVTC               National Vocational Training Center
PCR                Project Completion Report
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SFCS-PIU           Service de financement et de constructions scolaires
(project implementation unit)
SW                 Staff-weeks
TSS                Technical Secondary School
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme
UPE                Universal Primary Education
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
SCIIOOL YEAR
September to July



FOR OFFICMIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 27, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Rwanda
Tbhird Education Proiect (Cr. 1683-RW)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Rwanda - Third Education
Project (Cr. 1683-RW) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. A letter with comments
by the Government has been issued as Part II. The PCR gives a satisfactory account of
the project experience.
The project aimed at improving quality and efficiency of primary and post-
primary education through investments in textbooks and a strengthening of educational
administration, and to assist in training technical manpower through the establishment of a
technical secondary school and a vocational training center.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory. Even though implemen-
tation took eight instead of the planned five and a half years, by the time of Credit
Closing only two thirds of the funds had been disbursed and one component was
operational. While the unstable and deteriorating political situation was to be blamed for
most of the shortcomings, inadequate project preparation was also a contributing factor.
Institutional development impact was modest. In view of the recent catastrophic events in
Rwanda, project sustainability appears unlikely.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1683-RW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
P R E F A C E  ....................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ...................................................                              ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK' S
PERSPECTIVE                                                                                                  1
A. PROJECT IDENTITY                                 ...................................1
B.   BA CK GRO U ND   .....................................................1
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND  DESCRIPTION ........................................2
Project  O bjectives   ....................................................2
Project Description ..................................................3
(a) Supply and Distribution of Textbooks and Teaching
Materials ..................................................3
(b) Technical Secondary School (TSS): .....................................      3
(c) National Vocational Training Center (NVTC): .....................            3
(d) Institutional Development Studies: .......................................   4
D. PROJECT DESIGN  AND  ORGANIZATION  ............................................4
E. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ...................................................5
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up ..............................................5
Implementation Schedule ...................................................6
Procurement .....................................................8
Project Costs ....................................................8
Disbursements and Credit Allocation ...................................................9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



F. PROJECT RESULTS ....................................9
Project Objectives and Physical Results ......................................9
Institutional Strengthening   .....................................                                10
Action Program  for Improved Efficiency .....................................                       10
Impact of Project .............................1........ 1
G. PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY                                  ..................................... 11
H. BANK PERFORMANCE                                   ................                    ..................... 12
I. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .....................................                                                12
J. PROJECT  RELATIONSHIP  ..................................... 13
K. CONSULTING  SERVICES   ..................................... 13
L. PROJECT  DOCUMENTATION  AND  DATA                                        ..................................... 13
M. CONCLUSIONS AND  LESSONS LEARNED                                         ..................................... 13
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE                                                                                                             15
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                                                                       17
1. Related IDA  Credits ...............................                                           18
2. Project Timetable   ............................... 19
3. Credit Disbursements ...............................                                            19
4. Project Implementation ...............................                                         20
5. Project Costs and Financing ...............................                                    21
6. Project Results                                                     ............................... 22
7. Status of Covenants ...............................                                            23
8. Use of Bank Resources ...............................                                          26
MAP    IBRD 19109



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1683 - RW)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Education Project in Rwanda, for
which Credit 1683 - RW in the amount of SDR 13.5 million was approved on April 15, 1986 and signed
on May 23, 1986. The Credit became effective on February 27, 1987 and was closed on December 31,
1993, about two years behind schedule. The last disbursement under the credit was on March 29, 1994;
only 69% of the credit was disbursed, with a balance of SDR 4.16 million that was canceled effective
March29, 1994.
2.    The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Operations Division of the
South - Central and Indian Ocean Department (AF3PH). There was no completion mission. The Bank
sent the Borrower Parts I and III with the request to prepare Part II which was received in March 1994.
3.    The PCR is based on the President's Report, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Development
Credit Agreement, reports by and correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank
memoranda and interviews with Bank staff who have been associated with the Project over the years.
4.    The PCR reviews the situation of the Project up to the beginning of 1994, and therefore does not
take into account the impact that the tragic events unfolding in Rwanda since the beginning of April,
1994 may have had on the Project, particularly its results and sustainability.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1683 - RW)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.    The Project was designed to assist the Government in its plan to improve the quality and
efficiency of its primary and post-primary education system by providing for the supply and distribution
of textbooks and other teaching materials, establishing a self-sustaining textbook/teaching materials
replenishment scheme, and strengthening the management and planning capacity of the Ministry of
Primary and Secondary Education (MI1NEPRISEC) and the Ministry of Public Service and Professional
Training (MINIFOP) through training and studies. In addition, the Project was to assist in alleviating
shortages of critically needed manpower by providing for a Technical Secondary School (TSS) at Kibuye
and a National Vocational Training Center (NVTC) in Kigali (Paragraph 5).
Implementation Experience
ii.    The overall implementation experience of this project is not satisfactory. The forecast in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) that the Project would be completed and the credit fully disbursed in five and a
half years turned out to be very optimistic, despite the fact that MINEPRISEC was an "old" borrower of
the Bank and that the design of the Project included a substantial input of technical assistance. After
about eight years, only 69% of the credit had been disbursed, and of the three main components only one
was fully operational. There were considerable delays in the preparation of final designs and bidding
documents, the award of contracts, the delivery of paper for textbooks, and the construction of NVTC,
as well as in securing the financing from UNDP for the technical assistance for the NVTC component.
The preparation of the Project was not as advanced as it should have been to ensure that it be
implemented without undue delays. For the most part, implementation delays were due to weaknesses in
project management. Both the Government and the Bank did not appreciate fully the burden that the
carrying out of this project would place on the managerial and implementation capabilities of
MNNEPRISEC and SFCS. Obviously, the deterioration in the political situation and the war from 1990
to 1993 did not help, but the Government could have made more efforts to limit the turnover of project
directors and to address the chronic problems that delayed project implementation: weaknesses in
institutional capabilities, slow decision making by MINEPRISEC and MlNIFOP, cumbersome
administrative procedures, unfamiliarity and/or poor compliance with Bank procedures, and failure to
follow Bank recommendations (paragraphs 11 to 23).



iii
Results
iii    With only one component fully operational before the tragic events of April 1994, the actual
results and impact of the Project were limited, but there were plans to continue project implementation
and secure more satisfactory results which will now have to wait for a return to a normal situation in the
country. On balance, the overall outcome of the Project is judged to have been unsatisfactory and its
overall achievement in terms of institutional development was partial (paragraphs 24, 28 and 32).
iv.    The component for the supply and distribution of textbooks and teaching materials would have
made available in 1994 1.5 million textbooks to 1.2 million students (one set for two students) and
provided teaching manuals for all primary school teachers which should have led to an increase in the
quality of education for the students and in the job satisfaction of teachers. With the established fees, the
cost-sharing replenishment scheme for textbooks would have yielded about two-thirds of the appraisal
estimate. The use of international competitive bidding for the purchase of paper by IMPRISCO brought
about a 50%-60% reduction in cost. Finally, the component permitted the setting-up of a system for the
production and sale of school notebooks which has been a profitable activity for IMPRISCO. At the
beginning of the school year 1993-1994, the Kibuye TSS had a total of about 320 students and the first
technicians were due to graduate at the end of 1994-1995. On the basis of its design and almost
complete construction by the beginning of 1994, the NVTC should be able to achieve its estimated yearly
outputs if it is ever completed (paragraph 24 to 27, and 31).
V.    The technical assistance and fellowship training benefited mostly IMPRISCO, but the overseas
training of the TSS and NVTC teachers is also a positive result of the Project. In general, the Project
increased training capacity, but did not strengthen significantly the planning and management capacity of
the ministries (paragraph 28).
vi.   Progress in achieving the objectives of the action program for the improvement of the quality and
cost effectiveness of education has been limited. However, the Government had a continuous dialogue
with IDA on its educational policies and plans in connection with the development of two education
sector projects (paragraphs 29 and 30).
Sustainability
vii.   Once the country's situation returns to normal, the chances of success of the component for the
supply and distribution of textbooks and teaching materials, which will rely on churches particularly for
distribution in the regions, are good, provided that rental fees are deposited into the School Supplies
Revolving Fund. The prospects for the NVTC (if and when it is completed) could be satisfactory,
provided its legal status gives it administrative and financial autonomy and allows the participation and
involvement of the private sector in all aspects of its management, operations and financing. On the other
hand, the sustainability of the Kibuye TSS, which is unlikely to be able to benefit from cooperation with
enterprises, is uncertain. On balance, and in view of the above-mentioned provisos, the overall impact of
the Project in terms of sustainability was uncertain (paragraphs 33 to 36).
Findings and lessons learned
viii.  The Project was not fully prepared, and this was one of the reasons for the considerable delays in
implementation. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) rightly identified questions concerning Rwandese
management and implementation capability as the two main risks of the Project. Those risks were



iv
supposed to be minimized with technical assistance and training, through effective coordination on
planning, programming and execution, and close monitoring. In practice, this effective coordination and
close monitoring did not happen.  For its part, the Bank did not devote sufficient resources to
supervision. The extent of the coordination difficulties likely to be encountered during project
implementation was not fully appreciated by the Bank nor by Government (paragraphs 42 and 43).
ix.    A number of lessons (paragraph 44), some of them obvious and not unique to this Project, can be
drawn from the experience with the Project so far:
(a)   A project should not involve more than one ministry, at least for the same component. If
it is necessary to involve two ministries, good management is critical to project success,
and such a project would require a suitable coordination mechanism.
(b)   The more detailed and complete the project preparation, the more likely the project is to
be implemented without undue delays.
(c)   Whenever cofinancing by another donor is crucial to the successful implementation of one
or more components, any condition on the availability of that cofinancing must be strictly
enforced.
(d)   Whenever an action program is agreed to as part of, or in connection with a project, the
implementation and monitoring of that program must be taken seriously not only by the
Borrower but also by the Bank.
(e)   Institutional development aspects of a project need to be closely monitored.
(f)    The Bank should insist that project accounts include all sources of financing and provide a
summary presentation on the same format as the project cost table included in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR).
(g)   Relying on organizations with a monopolistic position, like IMPRISCO, to implement
projects or project components, is not advisable, unless there is no other altemative
available.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1683 - RW)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK' S PERSPECTIVE
A.    PROJECT IDENTIlY
Name                             Third Education Project
Credit Number                    1683 - RW
RVP Unit                         Africa Region
Country                         Rwanda
Sector                          Human Resources
Sub - Sector                    Education
B. BACKGROUND
1.    At the time of project appraisal, Rwanda's salient characteristics included its small size, an annual
population growth rate of 3.7 percent (ranking among the highest in Africa), a population density (in
terms of agricultural land) of about 500 per square km (ranking among the highest in the world), hilly
terrain and high average altitude, a landlocked position, lack of natural resources (including a serious
shortage of arable land), underdeveloped physical and institutional infrastructure, and a very low level of
development as measured by a variety of social as well as economic indicators. These indicators included
a per capita income of about US$270 (1983), among the lowest in the world; an average life expectancy
of 47 years; an adult literacy rate of 37 percent; and an infant mortality rate of 115-125 per 1000.
2.    Rwanda's formal education system consisted of: (a) eight years of primary education followed by
either three years of pre-vocational education in CERAI (Centers for Integrated Rural and Artisanal
Education) or six years of secondary education, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Primary and
Secondary Education (MTNhEPRISEC); and (b) higher education courses provided by the National
University of Rwanda (NUR) on two campuses under the authority of the Ministry of Higher Education
and Scientific Research (MfNESUPRES). Other formal as well as infornal training was offered by
various ministries for training in administrative and commerce skills, postal and communications services,



2
extension services, health and nutrition. Vocational and home-making training were provided by many
church-related agencies. Despite a variety of vocational training activities, the sector lacked adequate
coordination at the national level.
3.    The education and training system was considered insufficiently relevant to Rwanda's needs.
Although major reforms had been introduced in 1979 to increase the vocational orientation at all levels,
their implementation had not been very successful. The main problems of the sector remained closely
related to financial constraints and the likely stagnation or even reduction of the education budget in real
terms. The Government had to undertake strategic planning and implement action programs designed to
optimize the use of resources in order to be able to face the following issues and constraints: (a)
alignment of policy objectives and targets to financial capacity; (b) rigorous application of cost control;
(c) gearing training programs to the needs for priority economic and social development and job
opportunities; (d) improvement of internal efficiency, quality and equity as far as financially feasible; (e)
modernization of administrative skills and office technology; and (f) coordination of programs to improve
literacy. Regarding primary education, enrollment ratios were reasonable and unusually even among
prefectures (all in the 60 to 70 percent range), but attrition and repetition rates were very high. The low
quality of education was attributed mainly to unqualified teachers, insufficient textbook provision (one set
per eight students) and the double-shift system in grades 1-3. In addition, teaching of workshop subjects
in grades 7-8 was generally weak. The CERAIs (post primary schools) suffered from lack of equipment
and especially textbooks, and the quality of education was mixed. While the main objective of the
CERAI was training for employment in the local milieu, lack of such employment opportunities was
becoming a problem.
4.    The Bank Group had supported Rwanda's education sector through two education projects,
emphasizing primary (pre-vocational) and secondary education development, respectively. The First
Education Project provided workshops and established project implementation and textbook printing
capacity, but the management of the school print shop was weak and satisfactory textbook distribution
was not achieved due to lack of storage space and consistent financial support. The Second Education
Project supporting commerce, nursing and primary teacher training in specialized secondary schools and
institution building was being implemented satisfactorily. The Bank overall strategy for educational
development, taking account of the major problems of severe financial constraints and rapid population
growth, emphasized the most efficient use of funds to enable increased participation, improved quality
and meeting the needs of economic development. By supporting improved quality in primary and post-
primary education and the development of technical/vocational education, the Third Education Project
was to address some of the identified sector deficiencies that were not being addressed by other donors.
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
5.    The Project was designed to assist the Government in its plan to improve the quality and
efficiency of its primary and post-primary education system by providing for the supply and distribution
of textbooks and other teaching materials, establishing a self-sustaining textbook/teaching materials
replenishment scheme, and strengthening the management and planning capacity of MINEPRISEC and of
the Ministry of Public Service and Professional Training (MINIFOP) through training and studies. In



3
addition, the Project was to assist in alleviating shortages of critically needed manpower by providing for
a technical secondary school and a national vocational training center.
Project Description
6.    The Project consisted of the following components:
(a)   Supply and Distribution of Textbooks and Teaching Materials
*     Planning, programming and monitoring, as well as the supply and distribution of
educational materials, to be carried out by the School Print shop.
*     The construction and equipping of a new central storage depot in Remera, including office
space, and of regional transit depots in each of the other nine prefectures.
a     The introduction of a cost-sharing program through the collection of fees from pupils to
ensure the continuous replenishment of books and materials.
*     Training through fellowships abroad of about ten technical staff of the School Print shop.
(b)   Technical Secondary School (TSS):
'The construction, organization, staffing, furnishing and equipping of a new Technical
Secondary School at Kibuye with a total of about 270 student places including boarding
facilities and at least sixteen housing units for staff.
'The training, through fellowships abroad and through in-service pedagogical training at
the Technical Secondary School at Kicukiro, of about 14 teachers of technical and
practical subjects, to provide teachers for the Technical Secondary School.
(c)   National Vocational Training Center (NVTC):
*     The construction, organization, staffing, furnishing and equipping of a National Vocational
Training Center in Kigali, including housing for staff and a canteen for trainees, to provide
training, inter alia, in mechanics, welding and metal work, electricity, auto-mechanics,
carpentry and construction.
The establishment of a National Vocational Training Board under MINIFOP, comprising
representatives of other concerned ministries, the private sector and trade rnissions, to
assist the Ministry in the formulation and carrying out of policies concerning technical and
vocational training.
The training of trainers for the Center through fellowships abroad and in-service training.



4
(d)   Institutional Development Studies:
The strengthening of administration through: (i) monitoring the operations of the School
Print shop; (ii) carrying out studies for the improvement of school inspections and
management and the improvement of educational administration; and (iii) carrying out
evaluations and preinvestment studies related to the project and to the educational sector.
7.    An important feature of the project was its technical assistance program which provided for 30
staff years of specialists' services and 46 staff years of fellowship training. Five staff years of specialists'
services were included for an expert advisor/accountant to manage textbook distribution and maintain
project accounts; two staff years for expert(s) in printing techniques; and two staff years for a director of
the TSS. However, the major portion of technical assistance services (18 staff years) was allocated to the
NVTC, of which eight for MINNIFOP institution building and preparation for launching the center; the
remaining 10 staff years were for vocational trainers for start-up of NVTC training. The major portion of
fellowship training (28 staff years) was allocated to the TSS for 14 selected Rwandese to train abroad for
two years each in the specialties they would teach upon return. Training abroad was included for the
Rwandese director and training chief of the NVTC, as well as for the trainers in the six specialties to be
taught.
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
8.    A Bank reconnaissance mission visited Rwanda in February-March 1984 and reviewed with the
Government and donors priority items which could be included in the Project. The Government wanted
a bigger project than the one identified by the Bank mission; on the other hand, the Bank list included
components for which the Government had not requested financing from the Bank. The main issue and
focus of dialogue with the Government during project preparation centered upon the
appropriateness/readiness of the development of a new second campus of the National University of
Rwanda (including a Faculty of Education and an Assembly Hall) which had been proposed by
Government as a top priority and a major element of the Project. The problem regarding its inclusion in
the Project was solved with the decision to undertake a study of the higher education sub-sector financed
by UNDP. The composition of the Project was finally agreed with Government during the November
1984 preparation mission, but the degree of Government ownership of the Project remained rather low.
Sectoral problems were detailed and analyzed in an Education Sector Memorandum which was discussed
with Government during the processing of the Project, and the credit agreement included a covenant that
an evaluation of progress in achieving an agreed action program for the improvement of the quality and
cost-effectiveness of education would be provided for Bank Group review by not later than July 31 each
year
9.    Technical preparation was undertaken by a mission of the Bank-UNESCO Cooperative Program
in June-July 1984, and also by Rwandese officials and organizations and consulting firms with financing
from Cr. 1217-RW (Fonds d'Etudes) for NVTC and Cr. 1263 (Second Education Project) for
MINEPRISEC items. Within the Bank, questions were raised by the Loan Committee, and answered
satisfactorily by the staff, on the apparent high cost per student and the status of preparation of project
activities, particularly whether the Project was ready for Board consideration. MINEPRISEC Textbook
Commission undertook an inventory of available primary school and CERAI textbooks and prepared a
report on the operations of IMPRISCO, including production, use of equipment and paper, administrative
procedures, accounting system and audit.  Also, exploitation of MINIPLAN household expenditures



5
survey was applied towards the development of the cost sharing scheme.  It does not seem that
alternatives to the use of IMPRISCO were considered. As there was concern about the attrition rate for
the TSS, it was agreed that based upon the results of a study on the causes of very high attrition in the
Kicukiro TSS, proposals satisfactory to the Bank for improved internal efficiency would be introduced
for the Kibuye TSS. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) conveys the impression that the Project was
reasonably well prepared, with the exception of the NVTC component. However, experience showed
that even the preparation of the other components was not as complete as would have been advisable to
ensure that the Project be implemented without undue delays.
10.   The SFCS (Service de Financement et de Constructions Scolaires) was to implement the
MINEPRISEC components of the Project. The Director of Training at MINIFOP was to be responsible
for the implementation of the MIfNIFOP element (NVTC). The expert advisor/accountant in the SFCS
would maintain project accounts both for SFCS and MINIFOP.  SFCS weak organization and
functioning led the Government and the main donors (IDA and UNDP) to agree that it should be
reorganized, with emphasis on management and project implementation rather than on the architectural
aspects.
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up
11.   The credit was approved on April 15, 1986 and signed on May 23, 1986. Additional conditions
of effectiveness included the opening of, and an initial deposit into a Project Advance Account, the
entering of an agreement between Government and UNDP for the provision of technical assistance to the
NVTC and the selection of consultants for the design for the construction of the NVTC. The credit was
made effective on February 27, 1987, a delay of about five months from the originally planned date,
although only one additional condition of effectiveness (regarding the Project Advance Account) was
met, and despite the fact that by that date the Borrower was not in compliance with some dated
covenants on staffing and technical assistance (Implementation Program in Schedule 4 of the Credit
Agreement). Regarding the other two additional conditions of effectiveness, it turned out later that the
selection of the consultants for NVTC was not acceptable to IDA, and the agreement between
Government and UNDP was only for a "preparatory assistance" project and not for all the technical
assistance required for NVTC. The lack of an agreement with UNDP (and 1LO as executing agency) on
technical assistance, which continued for a number of years, delayed the implementation of the NVTC
component as did the absence of consultants for the design (which was finally undertaken by SFCS).
12.   The delay in credit effectiveness did not mean that all that time was lost for project
implementation. During that period, the Bank fielded three supervision missions, and the Borrower took
some steps to start the Project. After an initial delay of six months which was surprising considering the
number of architects and draftsmen employed by SFCS, architectural studies and plans were finally
prepared for the MIfNEPRISEC items. Also, an agreement was signed with ILO for the procurement of
equipment. However, progress was very slow regarding IMPRISCO. To improve its efficiency, a new
organizational structure whereby it became a Directorate (or Regie d'etat) of WNEPRISEC was
introduced in June 1986, a new director was appointed, and a contract was signed with a consulting firm;
but the expert advisor and accountant were only employed in January 1988, a year late. Similarly, not
much was done to improve the organization and operations of SFCS.



6
Implementation Schedule
13.   At the time of the appraisal of the Project, the typical disbursement profile for Rwanda was eight
years. The forecast in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) that the Project would be completed in five
years (the completion date in the credit agreement is June 30, 1991) and the credit fully disbursed in five
and a half years nevertheless seemed reasonable in light of experience with the Second Education Project,
and considering also that MIvNEPRISEC was an "old" Borrower and that the Project included substantial
technical assistance.  The SAR forecast tumed out to be extremely optimistic.  Actually, project
implementation has been very slow, with two components out of the three main components not quite
completed by early 1994.
14.   For the construction of the Technical Secondary School (TSS) at Kibuye, the preparation of
bidding documents and bidding proceeded smoothly, but the award of the contract was delayed by
several months because the Government did not want to award the contract to the firm that had
submitted the lowest evaluated bid substantially responsive to the bidding documents (eventually the
contract was awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder). At the beginning, disbursements were held up
until the Government furnished the results of the study of internal efficiency at the Technical Secondary
School at Kicukiro, a condition of disbursement for the Kibuye TSS civil works. That study was carried
out by the Bureau Pedagogique de l'Ensezgnement Secondaire (Pedagogical Office of Secondary
Education); it was due in December 1986 but was completed only in August 1989. There is no
information available as to whether the study was used for the purpose intended, namely to provide for
Bank review and comment satisfactory proposals to introduce improved procedures to ensure internal
efficiency for the Kibuye TSS. Equipment, whose procurement was handled by EQUIPRO/ILO, was
delivered between September and December 1989, and the fourteen future teachers completed their
training in France (during which special efforts had to be made to convince them that the training should
be practical and that they had to get their hands dirty) in October/November 1989. Since construction
was not completed until the second half of 1990, there were problems with the installation of equipment
and the release of the final payments to suppliers, and to ensure that the trained teachers were
meaningfully employed in other schools until the opening of the Kibuye TSS. Despite those problems, on
balance this component was relatively well implemented. The Kibuye TSS opened in October 1990
(about a one year delay compared to the SAR forecast) with 162 students, and has been operating since
then. In 1993, Bank agreed to the use of available funds from the IDA credit for a multi-purpose
auditorium (salle polyvalente) which has not yet been completed.
15.   Many things went wrong with the implementation of the National Vocational Training Center
(NVTC) component. By the time the design was completed by SFCS in mid-1988, the land that was
originally allocated to NVTC had been used for something else. A new site was selected in December
1988, but with very difficult terrain conditions, so that new architectural plans had to be prepared. In the
meantime, the Bank was concerned that the technical assistance to be financed by UNDP be substantially
in accordance with the needs that had been agreed with Government during appraisal and at negotiations,
since it became apparent that the Government was concerned with the high cost of such technical
assistance. It took years to resolve the differences of opinion between Government and UNDP on the
one hand and ILO as Executing Agency on the other hand on technical assistance and fellowships. It was
only on June 20, 1990 that a revised Project Document (which included a UNDP contribution of US$1.3
million for 1990 to 1993) was signed. The signing of the construction contract was delayed because
again the Bank had to insist that the contract be awarded to the firm that submitted the lowest evaluated
bid. Construction started in February 1992, experienced a number of delays and had not yet been



7
completed at the time of the project completion. The procurement of equipment took almost as long; the
equipment was finally delivered in 1993, but its installation may present a problem
16.    On the pedagogical front, surveys in local enterprises helped identify the main disciplines for
which training and retraining at the Center would be undertaken, and also indicated the expected
objectives of the NVTC and the professional profiles of persons to be trained or retrained. The training
in France and Italy of thirteen trainers (for seven disciplines out of the eight selected) was completed in
1992, and for that component there would also be the risk that trainees might find employment
somewhere else if the opening of the Center were delayed for too long. The training programs were
finalized, and the various training modules and detailed contents of each course were elaborated with the
help of an 1LO expert on Training Methodology. The Center was therefore pedagogically ready, but it
would not be able to start operations until it is completed physically and until the decree on its
establishment and organization is issued.
17.   Regarding institutional and organizational aspects, the terms of reference for the studies on the
legislative and regulatory texts governing the establishment, organization and functioning of the NVTC
and a training coordination structure were prepared in November 1991. A team composed of an
international and a local consultant drafted a number of texts which were discussed at a seminar
organized in Kigali in April 1993 with representatives of various groups (employers, workers, NGOs and
relevant ministries) and subsequently revised. However, no text had yet been approved by the Council of
Ministers. It should be noted that during 1992 the responsibility for the implementation of the NVTC
component was transferred from MINIFOP to the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (MlNITRASO).
18.   In summary, as of the beginning of 1994 the NVTC component was not yet completed and
operational, although according to the appraisal forecast it should have started operations in mid-1989.
The center was pedagogically ready, but construction was about 90% complete, the equipment had not
yet been installed, a power transformer was lacking, no contracts had been signed for the furniture, and
the decree on the establishment and functioning of the Center had not been issued. The study on training
coordination was due to be completed shortly, but the establishment of a Training Coordination Agency
was not likely to take place any time soon.
19.   The component for the Supply and Distribution of Textbooks and Teaching Materials also
experienced extraordinary delays, primarily because of unusual difficulties with the procurement of paper
(which was finally delivered in April 1993), somewhat beyond Government control. The central depot in
Kigali and the nine regional depots were constructed in the early years of the Project (basically in line
with the appraisal forecast). The purchase of cupboards to store books experienced delays because of
repeated changes in the type of cupboards to be used (wooden or metallic); finally metallic cupboards
were delivered to Kigali in December 1993. The technical assistance provided to IMPRISCO between
early 1988 and mid-1990 included an expert for setting up the distribution network and the rationalization
of administrative, accounting and financial procedures, and a specialist in printing techniques. Two staff
members (experts in printing techniques) of IMPRISCO received training in Belgium for eight months,
and some departments of IMPRISCO were computerized. The Management Committee was established
in late 1987, and functioned regularly; some of its members left following the April 1992 ministerial
reshuffling and were not replaced.
20.   Up to 1993, IMPRISCO produced and distributed exercise books only. Partly because of the
delays for the supply of paper for textbooks, the main objective of the component, namely the setting up



8
and functioning of a system of textbook rental in order to ensure their availability to students, had not yet
materialized by early 1994; however, there was agreement on the scheme and the various pieces were in
place. In 1993, IMPRISCO printed textbooks for grades 1, 2, 3 and 6 (print runs for these four grades
totaled 1,010,000 copies in 1993, with an additional 55,000 copies to be printed in 1994). Textbooks for
grades 4 and 5 (456,000 copies) were to be printed between January and April 1994. A publicity
campaign, including meetings and the use of radio and newspapers, was conducted to sensitize regional
MINEPRISEC officials and representatives of religious institutions on the book rental system, and in July
1993 a Rwandese delegation visited Lesotho to familiarize themselves with Lesotho's rental textbook
system which is so far the only successful system in Africa south of the Sahara. The Arrete (legal
instrument) setting up the book rental system was signed by the Minister of Primary and Secondary
Education and a Textbook Rental Committee set up to monitor the preliminaries and launch of the rental
system. Finally, in late November 1993, the Directors of IMPRISCO and DEP met with the regional and
district primary school managers to brief them on the rental system and establish the fees, which would
vary from RwF 130 to RwF 185 per pupil per year depending on the grade, to be deducted from the
school fees. The stage was therefore set for launching the system, with the books to be distributed and
with the rental fees to be collected and deposited into the bank account in April/May 1994, for grades 1,
2, 3 and 6, and in September 1994 for grades 4 and 5.
Procurement
21.   Weaknesses in procurement accounted for part of the delays in project implementation. While
there may have been a few occasions where the Bank could have done a better job in advising the
Borrower and monitoring the procurement process, most of the problems that arose were due to the poor
performance of the Borrower, including SFCS and the technical assistance provided under the Project.
Despite repeated communications from the Bank and the procurement training provided to SFCS staff, all
too often the preparation of bidding documents was inadequate and bid evaluation did not follow the
criteria specified in the bidding documents.  Previously agreed bidding documents were changed
unilaterally and made incompatible with the credit agreement, hence the need for endless review of
procurement documents. One even has the impression that at times SFCS was making special efforts not
to comply with Bank guidelines and not to follow agreed upon procedures. There have also been
unacceptable delays for payments to suppliers (particularly final payments normally due upon
commissioning of equipment). Problems arose not only for the procurement of civil works and goods,
but also for the recruitment of consultants. The difficulties encountered almost every year for the
selection of independent external auditors could have been minimized by entering into multi-year
contracts.
Project Costs
22.   Project accounts were kept only by disbursement categories of the IDA credit with all
expenditures summarized in a balance sheet. There is little information available in the files on the actual
contribution by Government, and none at all on the actual contribution by UNDP. In any event, there are
no figures on the actual cost of each project component which could be compared with the estimates
included in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) Variations between 1986 and 1993 in the rate of exchange
between SDRs and US dollars increased the dollar amount available from the IDA credit, all of which
would not have been needed to complete the Project, Assuming that the total of the UNDP and
Government contributions has been about the same as the appraisal estimates, the actual cost of the
whole project (including a few additional items) would be about 10% less than the appraisal estimate.



9
Disbursements and Credit Allocation
23.   The cumulative estimated and actual disbursements of the credit are given in Table 3 of Part III.
As mentioned earlier, the five and a half years disbursement forecast of the SAR tumed out to be
unrealistic. Disbursements in SDRs represented 69% of the credit, whereas the same disbursements
expressed in US dollars equivalent were equal to 81% of the US dollars equivalent amount of the IDA
credit shown in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). The allocation of the proceeds of the credit was
amended three times to reflect the changes in financing requirements. Disbursements of the IDA credit
were (a) more than estimated at appraisal for (i) paper and supplies for textbooks and teaching materials
production, (ii) fellowships, training, consultants' and experts' services, and (iii) furniture and equipment,
(b) less for civil works and operating costs, and (c) nil for transport (including packing cases) for the
distribution of teaching materials. The original closing date of the credit was December 31, 1991, but the
credit was closed only on December 31, 1993 and the last disbursement was on March 29, 1994; at that
time, $195,000 of the special account remained undocumented. The closing date was postponed twice,
one year at a time, in the hope that it would permit orderly completion of the Project, including the
construction and equipment of the NVTC, the provision of paper for the printing of textbooks by
IMPRISCO, and the provision of equipment and furniture for the School Depots in which textbooks will
be stored.
F. PROJECT RESULTS
Project Objectives and Physical Results
24.   With only one component fully operational before the tragic events of April 1994, the actual
results of the Project were limited, but there were plans to continue project implementation and secure
more satisfactory results which will now have to wait for a return to a normal situation in the country.
The assessment of project results in table 6 of Part m is based on the assumption that the
components will be implemented eventually in the way that was planned in early 1994.
25.   The Kibuye TSS started operations in October 1990 with 162 students for the school year 1990-
1991; at the beginning of 1993-1994, it had a total of 322 students. The first technicians of level A3 are
due to graduate at the end of the school year 1994-1995, and those of level A2 at the end of 1995-1996.
26.   In its first year of operation (1993-1994), the component for the supply and distribution of
textbooks and teaching materials would have made available 1.5 million textbooks to 1.2 million students
(compared with the appraisal estimate of "up to a million students"), and provided teaching manuals for
all primary school teachers (appraisal estimate of 20,000 teachers). This would have provided one set of
textbooks for each two students in all six grades of primary school. With the fees established, the cost-
sharing replenishment scheme for textbooks would have yielded RwF 185 million per annum, or about
two-thirds of the appraisal estimate. One benefit of that component was the very significant reduction
(from 50% to 60%) in the purchase cost of paper for IMPRISCO following international competitive
bidding, compared to the price that IMPRISCO had to pay when it received its supply of paper from the
Ministry. The availability of textbooks and teaching manuals would have increased the job satisfaction of
teachers and the quality of education for the students. The establishment of regional transit depots would
have meant a sizable reduction in distances and time required for the supply of books with a favorable
impact on schools and communities. Finally, the component permitted the setting-up of a system for the
production and sale of school notebooks which has been a profitable activity for IMPRISCO.



10
27.   The NVTC was constructed to have 120 places with 240 training stations to provide both initial
training programs - maximum length 9 months - and shorter upgrading courses; yearly output would be
about 60 skilled workers of A3-level and about 240 for other training, subject to maximum 120
enrollment at any one time. The design and implementation of that component up to the beginning of
1994 are such that the yearly outputs could be achieved if the NVTC is completed.
Institutional Strengthening
28.   The Project was intended to strengthen planning, management and training capacity in
MINEPRISEC and MINIFOP through provision of about 30 staff-years of specialists' services - 16 to be
financed by UNDP - and about 46 staff-years of fellowship training - 6 to be financed by UNDP.
Unfortunately the information available on technical assistance and fellowship training actually provided
is incomplete. It appears that fellowship training was successful, and technical assistance less so.
IMPRISCO seems to have benefited most from both, but the overseas training of the teachers of the TSS
at Kibuye and the NVTC in Kigali is also a positive result of the Project. In general, the Project increased
training capacity, but did not strengthen significantly planning and management capacity in
MINEPRISEC and MINIFOP. This was because the Government did not give priority to that aspect of
the Project. The overall achievement of the Project in terms of institutional development was
therefore partial.
Action Program for Improved Efficiency
29.   With reference to Section 4.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, the Government
committed itself in a supplemental letter to review regularly with IDA its policies and plans for
improvement of educational quality and cost-effectiveness, and to furnish to IDA by July 31 of each year
an evaluation of progress in achieving an action program covering the following:
(a)   increasing the proportion of qualified teachers in lower primary education from the initial
40 percent, improving the inspection system and educational management of school;
(b)   defining a comprehensive system for development of technical/vocational education,
including improvement of technical teacher training and broadening the range of training in
technical secondary schools;
(c)   improvement of enrollment ratio in primary education from the initial 65 percent and
assessment of shortening the primary education period from existing eight years together
with progressive lessening of double-shifting in grades 1-3 of primary education;
(d)   updating a three-year rolling public investment budget for education with definition of
education projects included in the Plan and progress with their implementation;
(e)   external aid to education during previous year and commitments for later years;
(f)   improved student/teacher ratios in second-level education from the initial 15:1 in the
CERAI and 16:1 in secondary education; and



11
(g)   improved educational planning/administration capacity among MINEPRISEC staff with
less reliance on expatriate staff, and modernization of office technology related to
accounting, examination, information and inventories systems.
30.   The annual submission of an evaluation of progress in achieving the action program was not
complied with. However, the Government had a continuous dialogue with IDA on its educational
policies and plans in connection with the development of two Education Sector Projects. Progress in
achieving the action program has been rather slow.
Impact of Project
31.   Because of the long delays in implementation, the impact of the Project so far has been negligible.
In 1994 and the following years, when the country's situation returns to normal, the impact of the
component for the supply and distribution of textbooks and teaching materials could be substantial in
view of its pedagogical and financial benefits. The long-term impact of the TSS and NVTC is less
certain.
32.   On balance, the overall outcome of the Project is judged to have been unsatisfactory.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33.   The Technical Secondary School (TSS) at Kibuye was in operation for three years. Like any
secondary school, it relied and would continue to rely mainly on government budget allocations for its
operation and maintenance. As for any technical school, technical expertise and close collaboration with
enterprises would be important for its success and sustainability. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
acknowledged that "as a modern institute having valuable, sophisticated equipment, the TSS will require
high standard institutional management, and that improvement of internal efficiency aspects will require
close monitoring". Apparently nothing was done regarding internal efficiency. According to the SAR,
"the location of the TSS in Kibuye should positively influence development in a town having potential as
a pole of growth". The existence of a technical school, however, is not sufficient to ensure development.
For the foreseeable future, the TSS will suffer from its poor location at Kibuye where there are essentially
no enterprises with which it could cooperate on such things as the provision of teaching staff and
supplies, and the conduct of evening classes. Although the sustainability of the Kibuye TSS is not
assured, the school should nevertheless have a positive impact on teaching quality and on access to
secondary education.
34.   The prospects could be satisfactory for the National Vocational Training Center (NVTC) in Kigali
once it is completed if it is given the right kind of statutes. Enterprises were consulted for the preparation
of the curricula and training modules and for the selection of equipment, and emphasis has been put on
flexibility in the manner in which the NVTC should operate to enable it to respond quickly to the
changing needs of enterprises. Texts governing the legal status of the NVTC were not yet finalized and
approved. Ultimately the success of the NVTC will depend on the extent to which it is granted
administrative and financial autonomy, and on the participation and involvement of the private sector in
all aspects of its management, operations and financing.



12
35.   The chances of success of the component for the supply and distribution of textbooks and
teaching materials could be promising. Once fully operational, the management of the textbook scheme
would rely on churches, particularly for distribution in the regions. The most crucial aspect, on which the
sustainability of the component would hinge, would be the payment of rental fees by students and their
deposit into the School Supplies Revolving Fund. This would need close monitoring.
36.   The overall impact of the Project in terms of sustainability was therefore uncertain.
H. BANK PERFORMANCE
37.   There were a number of design flaws (like the location of the Kibuye TSS, or the reliance on a
single organization with a monopolistic position like IMPRISCO), and the failure to anticipate that a
project with different components involving different ministries would be difficult to implement. The
credit was processed while the preparation of the Project was not as advanced as it should have been to
ensure successful implementation (for example, the preparation of detailed design and bidding documents
as well as early recruitment of technical assistance would have helped to reduce implementation delays).
The rush to go to the Board was followed by a similar rush to make the credit effective. The Bank did
not recognize that the Project would require stronger management on the Borrower's side than was
available in MINEPRISEC (particularly SFCS) and MINIFOP, and that special efforts needed to be made
to ensure that the implementation of the various elements within each component be properly
coordinated. Also, the Bank allocated insufficient resources to supervision (117 SW over the project
implementation period, with a maximum of 17 SW in FY 1993 - not unusually low for the time but still
inadequate), and with the exception of the last two years had to rely on limited outside expertise at all on
technical/vocational training. The Bank did not do enough to ensure satisfactory progress on the
institutional development aspects of the Project and to monitor the action program. It is somewhat
surprising that for most of the time, despite all its problems, the Project was not rated as a "problem"
project.
_. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38.   Overall management of the Project left much to be desired. There does not seem to have been
any spirit of cooperation, nor any mechanism to ensure cooperation between MINEPRISEC and
MINIFOP for the NVTC component. MINEPRISEC somewhat neglected that component, and even
used for its own purposes the land that had been originally allocated to NTVC. SFCS was poorly
managed and, despite the strengthening of its staff, performed unsatisfactorily on procurement,
construction supervision, project accounts and progress reports. The SFCS was also in charge of
construction for the Family Health Project, and the same types of problems occurred. The SFCS did not
display much interest in the studies included in the Project. Many covenants were only partially complied
with, and sometimes after considerable delays. Obviously, the deterioration in the political situation and
the war from 1990 to 1993 did not help, but the Government could have done a better job in limiting the
turnover of directors (there were four directors in seven years) and in seeing to it that SFCS be better
managed since there was plenty of financing available (including IDA and UNDP) for institutional
strengthening. Just as the Bank did not appreciate fully the burden that the Project would put on SFCS,
the Government did not act to strengthen SFCS and, with respect to NVTC, to ensure proper
coordination between the two ministries involved.   The Government should have made more efforts to
address the chronic problems that delayed project implementation: weaknesses in institutional capabilities,



13
lack of resolve in decision making, cumbersome administrative procedures, poor knowledge and/or
compliance with Bank procedures, and failure to follow the recommendations of Bank missions.
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
39.   The Bank relationship with MINEPRISEC and MINIFOP on the Project was not always good.
The poor performance of SFCS on project management in general and on procurement, progress reports
and project accounts in particular was a source of tension during project supervision.
K. CONSULTING SERVICES
40.   There is little information available in the files on the performance of experts and specialists
employed under the Project. While some appear to have been interested in and made efforts to transfer
skills and know-how, others seemed to have been more preoccupied with perpetuating their services. On
balance the consulting services can be rated mediocre to satisfactory, a rather disappointing situation
considering the volume and importance of the technical assistance incorporated in the design of the
project. It seems that neither Government nor Bank tried very hard to get better results.
L. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
41.   The Staff Appraisal Report, the President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement and
supplemental letters, and the working papers prepared prior to project approval were not a completely
adequate documentation for the implementation and supervision of the Project. Progress reports were
irregular, incomplete and submitted with delays; audit reports were also submitted late, although the
situation improved in recent years. The fact that progress reports were incomplete and that updated
information on project costs by component is not available did not facilitate the preparation of this PCR.
M. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
42.   With only one component fully operational before the tragic events of April 1994, the actual
results and impact of the Project were limited, but there were plans to continue project implementation
and secure more satisfactory results which will now have to wait for a return to a normal situation in the
country. On balance, the overall outcome of the Project is judged to have been unsatisfactory, its overall
achievement in terms of institutional development was partial and its overall impact in terms of
sustainability was uncertain.
43.   The overall implementation experience of this project is not satisfactory. Implementation delays
were due to the fact that the Project was not fully prepared and to weaknesses in project management.
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) rightly identified questions concerning Rwandese management and
implementation capability as the two main risks of the Project. Those risks were supposed to be
minimized with technical assistance and training, through effective coordination on planning,
programming and execution, and close monitoring. In practice, this effective coordination and close
monitoring did not happen. For its part, the Bank did not devote sufficient resources to supervision.



14
44.   A number of lessons, some of them obvious and not unique to this Project, can be drawn from the
experience with the Project:
(a)   A project should not involve more than one ministry, at least for the same component. If
it is necessary to involve two ministries, good management is critical to project success,
and such a project would require a suitable coordination mechanism.
(b)   The more detailed and complete the project preparation, the more likely the project is to
be implemented without undue delays.
(c)   Whenever cofinancing by another donor is crucial to the successful implementation of one
or more components, any condition on the availability of that cofinancing must be strictly
enforced.
(d)   Whenever an action program is agreed to as part of, or in connection with a project, the
implementation and monitoring of that program must be taken seriously not only by the
Borrower but also by the Bank.
(e)   Institutional development aspects of a project need to be closely monitored.
(f)    The Bank should insist that project accounts include all sources of financing and provide a
summary presentation on the same format as the project cost table included in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR).
(g)   Relying on organizations with a monopolistic position, like IMPRISCO, to implement
projects or project components, is not advisable, unless there is no other alternative
available.



15
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1683 - RW)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
MINISTRY OF PRIMARY                                 Kigali, March 18, 1994
AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
FINANCING AND SCHOOL                                No. 08.01.04/1757
CONSTRUCTION DEPARTMENT
P.O. Box 622 KIGALI
Mr. David Berk, Chief,
Population and Human Resources Division
World Bank
Subject: Project Completion Report for Third Education Project, Credit 1683-RW
Dear Sir:
Further to your letter dated January 13, 1994, seeking our comments on the Project Completion
Report for the Third Education Project (Cr. 1683-RW), I am pleased to express here my Department's
satisfaction with this report.
Following the meetings about the project completion held by Messrs. Peter Ngomba and Paul Geli
of the last Bank mission with the Project Unit (Financing and school construction Division), the officials
of the departments concerned, and the Ministry of Social Affairs, we confirm the data given in Part III of
this PCR.
However, from the discussions above and in the light of the information provided by the various
parties, the issues raised in Part I of this report should be reviewed in-depth to reflect the actual status of
project implementation. These comments are the following:
-  It is true that the production and distribution of textbooks have suffered delays from IMPRISCO.
Nevertheless, we are convinced that the project involvement in IMPRISCO will be beneficial in
regards to the availability of textbooks at the primary level. In addition, the system of renting
school books will secure a fund for the renewal of these books.



16
-  The problems of the Kibuye Technical School could have been solved if the Project had been in a
position to purchase the needed additional equipment. Yet, we are confident that in the future
this school should have a positive impact on the teaching quality and on the access of our children
to secondary education.
I would like to emphasize that we extend our appreciation to the Bank participation in this project
implementation, namely:
- the many and carefully planned supervision missions;
-  the quick handling of documents sent to the Bank.
Consequently, the relationship between the Bank and the Ministry of Primary and Secondary
Education has always been frank and has benefited from a mutual understanding.
As to the performance of the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education in project
implementation, some gaps have indeed been noted, especially on the following points:
-  The incomplete utilization of the Credit. The budget item (category 2-A) "Transportation of
school equipment" has not moved, due to major delays in procuring the equipment for school
warehouses. The implementation of these contracts has coincided with the Project Closing Date.
This delay was entirely caused by the officials involved in procurement, because of their review of
bidding documents at different times, for various reasons. At this stage, it should also be
emphasized that changes in the value of the dollar against the SDR have affected the percentage
of actual disbursements.
-  The late recruitment of the high level staff of the project to support the Administration in project
implementation. In spite of this staff constraint which was a major handicap, the Project Unit has
fully committed itself to the success of the project. With the strong help from the Project Unit
(First Education Sector), major steps have been taken during the last three months of 1993. This
gives hope to the implementation of future projects.
These are the views and comments which I wished to share with you concerning the
implementation of the Third Education Project. At the same time, I assure you that the gaps which have
hampered this project will be a lesson for the ongoing and future ones.
With my best regards,
Mbonimpa Jean-Marie V.
Minister of Primary and
Secondary Education



17
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1683 - RW)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



18
1. Related IDA Credits
Project Title/          Purpose          Year of       Status                  Comments
Credit Number                            Approval
First Education         To improve quality     1975       Completed   Following  initial delays, Project was
Project (Cr. 567-RW)    of primary education                 1983     reasonably successful in  provision  of
and its relevance to                          primary school workshops (including a
job   opportunities,                          commendable  community  effort), and
and     institution                           establishment of project implementation
building for project                          and textbook printing capacity. However,
implementation                                teaching of practical subjects in workshops
remained unsatisfactory, and management
of school print shop remained weak and
textbook distribution unsatisfactory.
Second Education        To         support     1982       Completed   There were delays in the recruitment of
Project                 commerce, nursing                    1989     technical   assistance,   design   and
(Cr. 1263-RW)           and primary teacher                           procurement.   Despite implementation
training       in                             delays of about two years, the Project was
secondary  schools,                           successfully implemented. It met all its
and     institution                           quantitative targets for additional student
building   on  the                            places, and contributed to the provision of
quality/pedagogical                           skilled  manpower  in  critical  areas
side as well as the                           (commerce and nursing). However, the
administrative side.                          additional places created  in  primary
teacher training institutions did not lead to
a corresponding increase in enrollments.
First Education         To  support policy     1991         Credit    Some progress has been made on policy
Sector Project          reform  in primary                 effective   reform with the reduction of the duration
(Cr. 2227-RW)           education,     to                  06/24/92    of primarv education from 8 to 6 years.
improve the quality                           After almost two years of inaction, the
of  education,  to                            Project finally started in early 1994 with
consolidate    and                            about 50 communities signing agreements
expand    primary                            to benefit from  the Primary Education
education      by                             Fund.
increasing   access
and equity of access,
and to strengthen
the         sector
management
capacity.



19
2. Project Timetable
Item                Timetable            Date Revised           Date Actual
Identification             02-03/84                                     02-03/84
Preparation                   11/84                                        11/84
Appraisal Mission          02-03/85                                     02-03/85
Credit Negotiations           03/86                                        03/86
Board Approval             04/15/86                                      04/15/86
Credit Signature           05/23/86                                     05/23/86
Credit Effectiveness       09/23/86                11/21/86             02/27/87
Credit Closing             12/31/91                12/31/92              12/31/93
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative estimated and actual disbursements
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year    1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994
Appraisal       1.0       5.0       10.4     14.4       15.2      15.6        -
Estimate
Actual          0.5        1.6      3.1       5.6        6.8       7.4       8.7     12.6
Actual as %    50%       32%       30%       39%       45%       47%       56%       81%
of estimate  I_I                                    I_I                 I         I
Note: Because of an increase in the value of the SDR in dollars since the signing of the IDA credit, the
available IDA financing represented more dollars than the amount estimated at appraisal.



20
4. Project Implementation
Indicators                     Planned              Actual or PCR Estimates
Date
A. Audit of accounts of the School Print shop for 1985    07/31/86   Complied with on February 25, 1987
B.  Furnishing to the Association for review and   07/31/86   Partially complied with after considerable
comment proposed terms of reference for, and CVs of,          delays; CV of chief technical advisor received
the chief technical adviser, planner and extension            on November 14, 1989.
experts and their respective Rwandese counterparts for
the National Vocational Training Center.
C. Taking up of positions described in B above:               Partially complied with after delays (technical
1. technical adviser, planner and their counterparts    01/01/87   adviser or "CTP" in January 1990).
2. extension experts and their counterparts     01/01/88
D. Expert advisor/accountant for School Pnnt shop in   01/01/87   January 1988
position
E.  Furnishing to the Association for review and   06/30/88    April, 1988
comment proposed syllabi for fourth-, fifth- and sixth-
year programs for heavy- duty mechanics and plant
maintenance.
F.  Furnishing to the Association for review and   09/30/88    Complied with after delay of more than a year.
comment terms of reference for, and CVs of, Director
and Deputy Director of the Technical Secondary School
at Kibuye.
G. Appointment of Director and Deputy Director of   01/01/89    Same as above. Personnel was in place and
the Technical Secondary School.                              school started operation in October 1990.
H. Completion of Studies under the Project.       12/31/90   Partially complied with. The Improvement of
Educational  Administration   Study   was
completed in July 1988 and the Private
Education Study was completed in January
1989. Other planned studies, like Monitoring
Textbook Distribution & Cost Sharing, and
Improved School Inspection & Management,
were not undertaken.



21
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs (Appraisal Estimate)
Local     Foreign       Total
(In US$ million)
(a) Textbook/Teaching Materials                           1.0        3.6          4.6
(b) Technical Secondary School                            1.8        3.5          5.3
(c) National Vocational Training Center                   1.0        2.6          3.6
(d) Institutional Support                                0.3         0.9          1.2
Total Base Costs                                    4.1        10.6        14.7
Physical Contingencies                              0.3         0.6         0.9
Price Contingencies                                 1.0         2.4         3.4
Total Project Costs
(including US$1.3 million in taxes and duties)            5.4       13.6         19.0
Note: Because project accounts have been kept by expenditure category of the IDA credit, there is no
information on the actual cost of each project component which could be compared with the estimate
included in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
B. Project Financing Plan (Appraisal Estimate)
Local     Foreign       Total
(1 n US$ Million)
IDA                                                     3.3        12.3         15.6
Government                                              2.1           -          2.1
UNDP                                                      -         1.3          1.3
Total                                 5.4        13.6         19.0
Note: Because project accounts have been kept by expenditure category of the IDA credit, there is no
information on the financing that has been actually provided by Government, IDA and UNDP by
project component.



22
6. Project Results
Indicators               Appraisal Estimates               PCR Estimates
(As of, or for year ended     (Most recent information
12/31/93)                     available)
Teaching manuals              Providing teaching manuals for If implemented as planned in
some 20,000 teachers          earlyl994, manuals would be
provided to all primary school
teachers.
Textbook                      Increasing  textbook  provision  If system  is implemented as
from the present 12% to 50%  planned in early 1994, textbooks
(one set per two) for up to a would have been provided to 1.2
million students.             million students, on the basis of
one set per two, in 1994.
Cost-sharing    replenishment Scheme to yield about US$ 2.0  Established  fees would  yield
scheme for textbooks          million yearly (1985 prices)   about two-thirds of appraisal
estimates.
Alleviating acute shortages of Yearly outputs of 36 engineering  With 55 students in their 3d year
trained labor force personnel and  technicians for the Kibuye TSS.  and  40  in  their 4th  year,
providing suitable candidates for                            appraisal target is likely to be
higher education                                             exceeded.
Yearly outputs of 60 skilled  If NVTC is ever completed as
workers   and   240   other designed, yearly outputs could
vocationally  trained  personnel be achieved.
for_the NVTC..               I_I



23
7. Status of Covenants
Section in               Subject                Deadline for                   Status
Credit                                         compliance
A2mreement
2.02(b)        Operation of Special Account      Continuous       Satisfactory
3.01(a)        Borrower's commitment to objectives  Continuous    The Project has not been carried out with
of the Project; Borrower to carry out              due diligence and efficiency; there has
Project with  due diligence and                   been considerable delays in many steps in
efficiency, and in confornity with                the process, and disbursements have been
appropriate  economic,  financial,                 slow. No problems with commitment and
administrative,   technical   and                 the provision of funds facilities, services
educational  practices,  and  to                  and other resources for the Project.
provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities and other resources
required for the Project
3.01(b)        Borrower to carry out Project in  Continuous       Partially  complied  with,  and  with
accordance  with  implementation                   considerable delays (see table 4 on Project
program in schedule 4 to DCA                       Implementation).
3.01(c)        Borrower to maintain a Project Continuous          Opening of Account and initial deposit of
Advance  Account  with  initial                   RwF  500,000  was  a  condition  of
deposit of RwF  500,000,  and                      effectiveness which was met in October
quarterly deposits thereafter to pay               1986.  Additional amounts have been
for expenditures under the Project                 deposited as necessary.
not financed by the credit, leaving at
all times a minimum of RwF 50,000
in such account
3.02           Procurement                      Continuous        Procurement  and   employment   of
consultants have been unsatisfactory.
Borrower failed repeatedly to comply with
Bank guidelines, which resulted in delays
in project implementation and unduly
heavy supervision burden for the Bank.
3.03(a)        School Print Shop to employ expert 01/01/1987      Complied with; experts were employed
advisor/accountant and experts in.                 from early 1988 to mid-1990.
printing techniques



24
Section in
Credit                  Subject                 Deadline for                   Status
Agreement                                         compliance
3.03(b)         Borrower to establish in NBR  a  06/30/1988        Being complied with. On November 4,
School Supplies Revolving Fund                     1993, IMPRISCO opened an account in
with student fees to be deposited                  Banque   Continentale   Africaine   du
pursuant    to    MINEPRISEC                       Rwanda. The rental system  started in
instructions.                                      January 1994 for grades 1,2,3 and 6 (with
the rental fees due to be collected and
deposited  into  the  Bank  account in
AprilMay 1994), and was due to start in
September 1994 for grades 4 and 5.
3.03(c)         Operations of the School Pnnt Shop  Continuous     Committee was established in late 1987,
to be guided and monitored by a                    and functioned  regularly but did  not
Management Committee.                              contribute to project semi-annual progress
reports. Some of its members have left
following the April 1992 ministerial
reshuffling and have not been replaced.
3.03(d)         No major revisions in textbooks for  Continuous    Complied with.
pnrmary or post-primary schools for
5 years (from 4/1/87 to 3/31/92).
3.04            Trainees benefiting from fellowships  Continuous   Partially complied with; some of the
to  work  in  their  respective                    trainees for the TSS Kibuye and the NVTC
institutions for a minimum  of 5                   had left before April 1994.
consecutive years following the
completion   of  their  training,
pursuant to legally binding contracts
satisfactory to the Association.
3.05           SFCS (now DFCS) to be adequately  Continuous        SFCS has not been adequately managed.
managed, staffed and maintained                    Audit reports have highlighted weaknesses
during   project  implementation,                  in the internal accounting system, despite
including   employment  of  an                     the recruitment of an  accountant in
accountant with qualifications and                 September 1993. SFCS  prepared  and
experience  satisfactory  to  the                  began implementing an action plan for
Association.                                       improvement (A accountant-manager and
an  assistant  accountant  have  been
recruited).



25
Section in
Credit                  Subject                 Deadline for                    Status
Agreement                                         compliance
4.01(a)         Borrower  to  maintain  project Continuous          Unsatisfactory. Project accounts have been
accounts                                           kept by expenditure category of the IDA
credit, and not by project component and
financing from all sources.
4.01(b) & (c)    Borrower to have project accounts  Continuous      Audit reports have been submitted with
audited annually, with audit reports               delays (sometimes considerable ones), as
submitted not later than six months                follows:
after the end of the year.                          1987: in March 1989;
1988: in January 1990;
1989: in June 1991;
1990: in August 1991;
1991: in July 1992;
1992: in October 1993;
1993: not due yet.
4.02            Borrower to have 1985 accounts of July 31 of each  Audit carried out by HSD-Expertise et
School Print Shop audited.       year              Conseil; report submitted on February
25,1987.
4.03 and        Borrower to exchange views from  July 31 of each  The annual submission of an evaluation of
supplemental    time to time with IDA  on its  year           (for progress in achieving action program as
letter          policies and plan of action for the  evaluation  of spelled out in supplemental letter was not
improvement of the quality and cost progress)      complied with. However, there has been
effectiveness of education, and to                  continuous dialogue with government on
furnish to IDA by July 31 of each                   educational policies. Dialogue led to a
year an evaluation of progress in                   policy seminar in Kigurfi in May 1988 and
achieving such objectives.                         the development of the First Education
Sector Project (with an emphasis on
primary education) approved in June 1991,
the dialogue is continuing with a focus on
secondary education (seminar planned for
March 1994).
Section II of   Employment of consultants  and  Continuous          Partially complied with, after delays.
Schedule 5 and   experts
Supplemental
letter



26
Section in
General                 Subject               Deadline for                   Status
Conditions                                      Compliance
9.06 (and      Semi-annual Progress Reports    Continuous        Partially complied with; reports have been
Section 11 of                                                    irregular, incomplete and submitted with
Schedule 4 to                                                    delays.
DCA)
9.06           Completion Report               06/30/94          Government subnutted Part U and some
comments on Parts I and III.
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (in Staff-weeks)
Stage of Project                                                        Actual
Through Appraisal                                                         68.7
Appraisal through Board Approval                                          65.3
Board Approval through Effectiveness                                       4.4
Supervision                                                              117.3
Total                                                                    255.7



27
B. Missions
Stage of     Month/    No. of    Days   Specializations   Performance   Types of
Project Cycle    Year      Persons    in        represented       Rating      Problems
Field         (a)            (b)           (c)
Through
Appraisal
Identification   02-03/84      3        20   EP, AR, VT
Preparation         06/84      1         7   EP
Preparation         11/84      2        17   EP, AR
Appraisal        02-03/85      5        28   EP, EC, AR, VT,
_______       TEX                             _  _  _  _
Follow-up          06/85       1        14   EP
Follow-up        10-11/85      1         8   EP
Follow-up        11-12/85      1        13   AR
Follow-up        01-02/86      1         5   EP
Board
approval
through
effectiveness
Supervision 1      06/86      3          4   ED, EC, ED
Supervision 2       11/86     2          9   ED, AR                  1
Supervision 3      02/87       1         5   AR
Supervision 4       11/87     3         11   ED, AR, TEX             2           AOF
Supervision 5      03/88       1         7   ED
Supervision 6      05/88       1         7   ED
Supervision 7    10-11/88     2         14   ED, TEX
Supervision 8   01-02/89      2         14   ED, AR



28
B. Missions
Stage of    Month/    No. of    Days    Specializations   Performance   Types of
Project Cycle    Year    Persons    in        Represented       Rating      Problems
Field        (a)             (b)           (c)
Supervision 9    11-12/89    2        18    ED, AR                 2        PMP, PRO
Supervision 10   05-06/90    3              ED, VT, TEX
Supervision 11     10/90     2              ED, EC
Supervision 12   04-05/91    3        17    ED, VT, EC
Supervision 13     10/91     1        10    VT
Supervision 14     11/91     2              EC, TEX
PDO, PRO,
Supervision 15     10/92     3        10    EC, VT, TEX            2        PMP
PDO,PRO,
Supervision 16 1    04/93 1   2    1  19    EC/EP, ED              2        PMP
Specialization represented:                    Types of Problems:
AR.  Architect                                   AOF: Availability of funds
EC:  Economist                                   PDO: Project Development Objectives
ED:  Education Specialist                        PMP: Project Management Performance
EP:  Education Planner                           PRO:  Procurement
TEX: Textbook Expert
VT:  Vocational Training/Technical
Education Specialist






MAP SECTION



IBRD  19109
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mb-  -d Kw                                                                                                            ANDA ___^
RWANDA 
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                  U G A N D A
*   EX80  DSTIETs D EPOTS                                                                    (1 2                                                                                 t        
A       TECRNICAL SECONDARY SCHOOL
NATIONAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTER
- PAED ROA-S
 --   -ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCT ON TO PAVEO STANDARD)                                                                                                                                                           TA NZAN IA
MAIN GRAVEL AND EARTH ROADS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
O  O   CITIES AND TOVVN3                           !ZA RE
RIVERS AND LAKES
_-.   -   INTERNATIONAL EOUNDARIES
_  ..Rshenger  tLaolda_                                               f         
L.~~~~~~~3
X g * * / \ C \ , \ l 4 ';) 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A K A G E R A 
.......                                 B~~~~~~~~~YALba           N-.,ARRYq            N A T i0 N A L
9'AR                                    flt,/                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PR
TN. V,o,IA Rap*  staf d S ) lf_ . R f  ,    >    <    9    X    {    /    L   Ch tP A
l*.aR'SIYd4*ARtSI,UtAKEA' IRS
CZI         s     e          o           h                                                                       dSs/r   t -  - YR  I    8,At
Oe'                                                    I               I<                5                                                     1|       ZR      3         T           TA  AR    TZA   NRI 
T ANZANIA           Sa Xt w_,  ,  LM
*(4MS    >                                                                                          f> S(<                                                                    S UR 3R                                  RD NNAI
l ~~~iA  MtWI                                                                                                                                                    !                                                                          \/A UGUST  1 98



