Tonummut of
The World Bank
1WOMCUaL USE ONLY
Repwt ?.  . P-4263-RW
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATICN
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS -
N A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 13.5 MILLION
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
March 25, 1986
_l.b dnMt bh  a rucbd db&&m mud am  be _ed by rad  iae pezff.    of
tbi ld.    il  enNmti   my aft mib lop be dlsdmd w       WeM Bak amduiznda



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT ' RWANDA FRANCS (RwF)
RwF 100          -           US$1.093 (March 1986)
US$1.00          -           RwF 91.5 (March 1986)
RwF 100          8           SDR 0.946
SDR 1.00         -          RwF 105.75
SDR 1.00         a          US$ 1.155
MEASURES
metric system
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY
CERAI           Centres d'enseignement rural et artisanal integre -
Centers for integrated rural and artisanal education
(post primary vocational education)
ILO             International Labor Organization
IMPRESCO        Imprimerie Scolaire - School Printshop
MINEPRISEC      Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
MINIFOP         Ministry of Public Service and Professional Training
NVTC            National Vocational Training Center
SFCS-PIU        Service de financement et des constructions scolaires -
project imiplementation unit
TSS             Technical Secondary School
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Rwandese Republic
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (MINEPRISEC)
and Ministry of the Public Service and Professional
Training (NINIFOP)
Amount:          SDR 13.5 million (US$15.6 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard IDA
Project Objectives
and Description: The project is designed to assist the Government in its
plan to improve the quality and efficiency of its primary
and post-primary education system through providing for
the supply and distribution of textbooks and other
teaching materials, establishing a self-sustaining
textbook/teaching materials replenishment scheme, and
strengthening the management and planning capacity of
MINEPRISEC and MINIFOP through training and studies. In
addition, the project would assist in alleviating
shortages of critically needed manpower by providing for
a technical secondary school and a national vocational
training center.
Benefits:        The project's main benefits include: (a) improving
educational quality through increasing provision of
textbooks and teaching materials for about one million
students, practically all of whom are in the poverty
target group; providing about 20,000 sets of teaching
manuals; and introducing student book-usage fees to render
this service self-sustaining; (b) increasing yearly output
of much-needed engineering technicians and skilled
workers; and (c) strengthening the institutions of
MINEPRISEC and MINIFOP.
Risks:           The major risks derive from the limited management and
implementation capacity of existing sector institutions.
These would be minimized through recruitment of
experienced specialists to launch the institutes/services
concerned and the training of Rwandese counterparts to
succeed them.
Tedocument ha a tatd disunbution nd may be   by recipients only in the performance
of their offkiold duties. Its contents miLy not odise be disclsed without World Bk authorization.



Estimated Project Costs:
-- US$ Million--
Local   Foreign   Total
(a) Textbook/Teaching Materials                  1.0      3.6       4.6
(b) Technical Secondary School                   1.8      3.5       5.3
(c) National Vocational Training Center          1.0      2.6       3.6
(d) Institutional Support                        0.3      0.9       1.2
Total Base Cost                           4.1     10.6      14.7
Physical Contingencies                    0.3      0.6       0.9
Price Contingencies                       1.0      2.4       3.4
Total Project Cost                        5.4     13.6      19.0
(of which US$1.3 million in taxes
and duties).
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                                              3.3       12.3     15.6
Government                                       2.1         -       2.1
UNDP                                                        1.3      1.3
Total                                         5.4      13.6      19.0
Estimated Disbursements:
--US$ Million
IDA FY                   1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Annual                    1.0     4.0      5.4     3.6      1.2     0.4
Cumulative                1.0     5.0    10.4    14.0    15.2    15.6
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 5805-RW of March 19, 1986
Map:                       IBRD No. 19109



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        1 submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Rwandese Republic in a total amount of SDR 13.5
million (US$15.6 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to finance a third
education project. The project will be co-financed with a UNDP grant for
US$1.3 million on a joint basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4059-RW) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on May 20, 1983 which discussed economic develop-
ments in Rwanda until that date. An economic mission visited Rwanda in
September 1985. Its report is under preparation, and preliminary findings are
incorporated below. Country data are provided in Annex I.
3.        Rwanda's salient characteristics include its small size, an annua].
population growth rate of 3.7 percent (ranking among the highest in Africa), a
population density (in terms of agricultural land) of about 500 per square km
(ranking among the highest in the world), hilly terrain and high average
altitude, a landlocked position, lack of natural resources (including a
serious shortage of arable land), underdeveloped physical and institutional
infrastructure, and a very low level of development as measured by a variety
of social as well as economic indicators. These indicators include a per
capita income of about US$270 (1983), among the lowest in the world; an
average life expectancy of 47 years; and an adult literacy rate of 37 percent.
4.        The country is heavily dependent on agricultural exports (coffee,
tea, pyrethrum, cinchona), which provide 75 percent of its foreign exchange
earnings. Rwanda's manufacturing base is narrow, and the growth of modern
manufacturing is limited by the small size of the market and the lack of raw
materials, marketing facilities, entrepreneurial skills, and skilled man-
power. The country, consequently, imports capital goods, steel, petroleum
products, cement and other construction materials, and virtually every modern
consumer product. Its merchandise trade is hampered by high transportation
costs and dependence on neighboring countries for access to the sea ports of
Mombasa and Dar-es-Salaam.
5.        Despite these constraints, Rwanda has made a creditable effort
toward economic and social development. During the 1976-80 period, the
country managed to satisfy its subsistence needs and to make important
advances not only in agriculture but in other fields such as education,



- 2-
health, water supply, and small-scale industry. These achievements reflect
the Government's commitment to economic and social progress, as well as its
prudent fiscal, balance of payments and debt management policies.  At the same
time, Rwanda has been able to attract a substantial volume of external aid
from a great diversity of sources, confirming donor perceptions that Govern-
ment is indeed development-oriented and is pursuing generally appropriate
objectives. The Government's efforts during this period were significantly
helped by favorable weather conditions and the coffee boom of the late 1970's.
6.        Achievement and good fortune notwithstanding, development efforts
in Rwanda have not alleviated the fundamental problems which continue to
compromise development prospects: population growth, increasingly at odds
with land availability, an undiversified economic structure, Government's
limited capacity to provide social services, and the economy's inability to
generate jobs either outside or within the rural sector. Though foodcrop
output has, at least, kept pace with the population growth, it has apparently
done so at a cost to the land's long-term fertility. Agricultural land use in
Rwanda has reached a point where there is little fallow or grazing area left.
The rapidly growing population has resulted in serious deforestation, accom-
panying erosion and has required the cultivation of marginal lands with a
fragile ecology. Concomitant with these adverse trends has been a deteriora-
tion of nutritional standards induced by the shift to traditional high-yield,
high-calorie, but low-protein crops. The limited success of Government's
efforts has been largely due to the country's structural constraints (among
them the critical population problem), institutional weaknesses (stemming
largely from a shortage of skilled personnel), and insufficiency of domestic
financial resources. At the same time, the shortage of skilled personnel,
fragmentation of institutional responsibilities, and poor interagency
coordination have limited the country's capacity to absorb external resources.
7.        The Rwandese authorities have taken steps to address these
problems. Of particular importance have been actions concerned with the
extremely rapid population growth, and the lack of education and training. A
proposed Family Health project, scheduled for Board consideration during FY86,
is our first full-scale effort to assist the Government to respond to its
pressing population realities. To address the problem of lack of education
and training, the Government introduced an education reform in 1979 which -
after subsequent adjustment - was responsive to the country's needs, but
whose implementation has been hampered by financial constraints and the lack
of teachers.
8.        A quantitative assessment of Rwanda's recent economic performance
can only be tentative, as the national account statistics have serious short-
comings. These estimates suggest that, compared to the period of 1978-1980,
during which the GDP grew by about 6 percent annually, economic growth in
Rwanda slowed down during 1983-1984 - GDP grew on average by about 1 percent
p.a. - mainly on account of a downswing in tertiary sector activities.
Balance of payments and budgetary constraints impinged heavily upon trade and
transport activities whose rapid growth in the past had been facilitated by
greatly enlarged availabilities of foreign exchange and budgetary revenues.
Budgetary austerity measures introduced since 1983 resulted in stagnation of



- 3 -
Government's expenditures in real terms during 1983 and 1984. Notwithstanding
this domestic recession, the manufacturing sector expanded its productive
capacity and improved its capacity utilization due, in part, to the import
restrictions which limited foreign competition. Mining continued the decline
that started in 1980 due to persistent financial and management problems of
the major mixed-ownership company (SOMIRWA), which has been recently declared
bankrupt and ceased its operations. In agriculture, the sluggish performance
of food crop production due to drought has been partially offset by the rise
in production of export crops. Preliminary data suggest that 1985 witnessed
moderate growth after the economic slump of the preceding three years. This
renewed growth occurred mainly on account of an increase in agricultural
production and despite a precipitous decline in the price of tea and the
virtual cessation of all mining activities.
9.        Rwanda's external position came under strong pressure, as the volume
of imports continued to expand at a time when export earnings were declining.
Since 1981, the total value of exports has been consistently below their
1977-80 levels, reflecting the decline in world coffee prices rather than a
shortfall in export volume. The terms of trade deteriorated by about 24
percent between 1979 and 1984. In an attempt to arrest the deterioration of
the balance of payments, the Government adopted - beginning in 1983 - what
they expected would be temporary measures, including licensing, prior deposit
requirements and increased import tariffs. The restrictions aimed mainly at
curtailing imports of non-essential consumption goods as well as those of
locally produced commodities. The Rwandese authorities also shifted the peg
of the Rwandese franc (in September 1983) from the US dollar to the SDR,
entailing a 5.2 percent depreciation vis-a-vis the US dollar. These measures,
coupled with some improvement in the terms of trade in 1984 and 1985 (with
respect to the 1981-1983 period) helped to reduce the current account deficit
to about 9 percent of GDP both in 1984 and in 1985 as compared to 12 and 11
percent, respectively, in 1982 and 1983.
10.       On the budgetary side, the authorities did not realize that the high
level of tax revenues recorded in 1979 and 1980 was a temporary phenomenon not
justifying a permanent increase in expenditures. As a result, the sharp
decline in revenues from coffee export taxes beginning in 1981, together with
increases in current outlays (in order to achieve the social objectives of the
Plan), resulted in an overall budgetary deficit equivalent to about 2 percent
of GDP in both 1982 and 1983 (as compared to a surplus of 0.9 percent in
1980.) Concern over the worsening budgetary situation led Government to
introduce corrective fiscal measures. In 1984, the growth of current
expenditures (in nominal terms) was limited to 2.3 percent. The growth of
public sector employment was held under 0.5 percent - the education sector
was exempted in order to achieve the revised targets of the 1979 Education
Reform. This represented a major break from Government's past policy of
practically -guaranteeing- employment to every secondary-school graduate.
Large reductions were also decided in net transfers to parastatals. Thanks to
the austerity measures and increased revenues from taxes on international
trade both in 1984 and 1985, the Government has been successful in reducing
the budgetary deficit to about 1 percent of GDP. The Government is likely to
face an even more favorable budgetary situation in 1986 because of an
anticipated increase in coffee prices and the introduction of a new sales tax.



-4-
11.       Government has been traditionally conservative in its monetary and
credit policies. Inflationary pressures have arisen mainly from supply
shortages caused by frequent disruptions of supply routes through neighboring
countries, high international transport costs, and increased prices of imports
and seasonal fluctuations in the price of domestic foodstuffs. Inflation
averaged 10.6 percent per annum during 1977-82, it peaked at 12.6 percent in
1982, reflecting mainly the substantial increases in electricity and water
tariffs and educational fees. In 1983 and 1984 inflation was down to 6.6 and
5.4 percent, respectively. In 1985, the inflation appears to have further
declined to about 4 percent.
12.       Rwanda has been one of the most favored beneficiaries of foreign aid
in recent years. Per capita disbursements of net official development assist-
ance (ODA) have been above US$30, much larger than the average for Africa. In
line with Rwanda's development priorities, this foreign aid was used to
finance basic infrastructure and rural development. During the period
1981-84, grants comprised about 80 percent of total external aid flows, and
were provided m2inly by Belgium, the. Federal Republic of Germany, and France.
In view of its level of development, Rwanda will need external assistance for
a long time to come. While the anticipated coffee price increases for the
next two years may provide temporary balance-of-payments relief, this is
unlikely to continue beyond 1987. To help the Rwandese to implement their
economic growth program (Programme de Relance), which focusses on agricultural
and small-scale industrial development, as well as on rehabilitation of public
enterprises, foreign assistance would have to continue at least at the current
level given population growth and export constraints.
13.       Rwanda's medium- and long-term external public debt is relatively
small, estimated at US$304 million at end-1985, equivalent to about 16 percent
of GDP. Most of Rwanda's external debt was contracted on highly concessionary
terms; the grant element was over 70 percent on average during the 1972-84
period. Due to the concessionary nature of these loans, the debt service
payments on medium- and long-term debt are relatively low: about 8 percent of
exports of goods and nonfactor services in 1985. Hence, there remains scope
for further borrowing. However, given the poverty of the country, its over-
whelming constraints and vulnerability, and its long-term unfavorable terms of
trade prospects, external funds should continue to be provided in the form of
grants or loans at highly concessionary terms, and include a high proportion
of local cost financing and non-project assistance.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
14.       Bank Group assistance to Rwanda, started in 1970, was initially
focused on the improvement of the road network and the strengthening of
agricultural production. As of January 20, 1986, Rwanda has received twenty-
six IDA credits totalling US$267.2 million: eight for agriculture (34 per-
cent); six  for roads (30 percent); four for DFCTs (10 percent); two for power
(9 percent); two for education (6 percent); one for water supply (5 percent);
two for technical assistance (4 percent); and one for telecommunications
(3 percent). In addition, Rwanda has also received a Special African Facility



-5-
Credit of US$15.0 million for the Sixth Highway project. There have been no
Bank loans. Three IFC investments (one of US$535,000 for a tea factory; a
second of US$226,000 with contingent equity commitment of up to US$60,000 to
expand the tea factory; a third of US$249,000 also to expand the tea factory)
were signed in 1976, 1980 and 1985, respectively. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1985.
15.       In fiscal years 1982-84, disbursements for Rwanda totalled US$49.1
nillion, compared to new commitments of US$86.2 million. The annual disburse-
ment rate increased steadily over this period, to reach about 25 percent in
FY85 which is above the average for countries of the Eastern and Southern
Africa Region. There are no problem projects in Rwanda.
16.       The Bank Group lending has been based on a country strategy which
has emphasized: (i) agriculture and rural development, the main objective
being to increase food production as well as export crops, while maintaining
soil fertility; (ii) human resources development, focusing on support to basic
education and skills training to improve agricultural productivity, provide
skilled manpower, and influence attitudes on the population issue, and, more
recently, on family planning programs per se; (iii) infrastructure develop-
ment, particularly roads, to reduce the country's isolation and to provide
incentives to further intensification of agriculture as well as increased
specialization and diversification through better marketing; (iv) energy, to
lessen the country's demand for fuel imports; and (v) development of small and
medium-size enterprises in manufacturing and other sectors.
17.       One of the major constraints to Rwanda's development is the shortage
of administrative and technical/mar.agerial capacity. This affects all sectors
and inhibits project preparation and implementation. Institutional and human
resource development through intensive technical assistance and on-the-job
training of Rwandese staff have, therefore, been a salient feature of the Bank
Group program for Rwanda, both under individual projects in various sectors,
and through free-standing technical assistance projects (a second Credit
1565-RW became effective January 10, 1986). These projects have helped
strengthen inter-ministerial coordination, provided training to staff in the
studies units of concerned agencies, and contributed to improve the prepara-
tion of the next five-year plan.
18.       The Bank Group program has been pursued in a climate of good rela-
tions with the Government. In all sectors in which we are active, there
exists a general receptivity to our advice and willingness to take action
where required. In agriculture, improved sector management as well as more
rigorous project planning and financial controls havx been attained, with a
shift away from integrated rural development schemes towalr.Z more directly
productive projects. In the highway sector, our active dialogue with the
Ministry of Public Works and Energy is now focusing on the ways to reduce
reliance upon expatriate expertise. In industrial development, we have gained
Government's commitment to promote small-scale enterprises. In the education
sector, a positive dialogue with the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Educa-
tion (MINIPRISEC) has emerged in the past three years; the Ministry has
revised its overly ambitious education reform proposal at the primary level
and since adopted a less costly and lengthy primary cycle. On population, our
initially cautious approach to Government has developed into cooperative
efforts to promote suitable family health and planning programs.



-6-
19.       The Bank Group strategy continues to center on the five sectors
mentioned above (para. 16), with special emphasis on agriculture and popula-
tion. For the former, we give priority to: (i) promote intensification by
developing and strengthening Rwanda's agricultural research and extension
capabilities; and (ii) reinforce the key sector institutions - the Rwandese
Research Institute and the Ministry of Agriculture. In the population sector,
our program involves close collaboration with the National Population Office
(the agency responsible for designing and promoting educational programs and
service delivery systems for family planning), support to maternal/child
health initiatives through the Ministry of Health, and participating more
effectively in other efforts to deal with Rwanda's bourgeoning population
problem.
20.       Finally, our dialogue with the Government has also had a macro-
economic dimension. Rwandese authorities have recently indicated readiness to
proceed with the preparation of an economic recovery program (Programme de
Relance), and asked the Bank's assistance in its formulation. A Bank economic
mission recently visited Rwanda in response to this request. The mission's
work, which extended in particular over agriculture and mining sectors and
public enterprises, will help further strengthen the cooperation between
Rwanda and the Bank at the macroeconomic level.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
The Education and Training System
21.          Rwanda's formal education system consists of: (a) eight years of
primary education followed by either three years of pre-vocational education
in CERAI (Centres d'enseignement rural et artisanal integre) or six years of
secondary education, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Primary and
Secondary Education (MINEPRISEC); and (b) higher education courses provided by
the National University of Rwanda (NUR) on two campuses under the authority of
the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MINESUPRES). Other
formal as well as informal training is offered by various ministries for
training in administrative and commerce skills, postal/communication services,
extension services, health and nutrition. Vocational and home-making training
are provided by many church-related agencies. Despite a variety of vocational
training activities, the sector lacks adequate coordination at the national
level.
22.          The present education system is insufficiently relevant to
Rwanda's needs. Main concerns are to maintain and improve participation under
conditions of rapid population growth and increasing financial constraints and
provide more job opportunities for school leavers; improve the quality,
internal efficiency and equity of the system; improve administration, upgrade
management skills and modernize office information systems; and better
coordinate efforts of agencies involved in literacy programs. To accompany
institutional development, Government should focus on measures to control
costs for secondary and higher education and reduce dependence on external
aid.



-7-
Human Resources Development
23.           Given the lack of natural resources, the current scarcity of
qualified personnel, high illiteracy rate and poor health conditions, the
development of human resources remains key to the socio-economic development
of Rwanda. On-going investments are in line with overall priorities in the
Third Development Plan (1981-86). First, most of them aim at alleviating the
shortages of trained personnel, which constitutes one of the most serious
constraints to socio-economic development. Second, by increasing general
participation in education, in particular for women, they represent the most
effective action towards containing population growth.  Third, by raising the
level of education of future farmers, they should increase agricultural
productivity. The last two linkages have been amply demonstrated through
experience in other countries.
24.           While the dynamics of population growth will increase the labor
surplus, there will nevertheless be, in the medium term, a shortage of skilled
labor. The Third Plan, which incorporated ILO data into its projections,
anticipated yearly shortages of 160 professionals and higher-level technicians
(400 required as against 240 output) and over 2,000 middle-level technicians
and skilled workers (3,400 required vs. 1,400 output). Given the lack of data
on the manpower demand side, these figures indicate only an order of magnitude
of the skill gaps. In an effort to define training needs, in the Bank Group's
sector work a Phase I of a "Specialized Training Needs' study has just been
completed and Phase II (strategy for Development) is expected to be completed
by June 1986.
Government Policy and Objectives
25.       To redress the mismatch between the Rwandese education and training
system and perceived national needs, major reforms included in the Second
Development Plan (1977-1981) were introduced in 1979. These reforms had three
basic objectives: (a) primary curricula reform emphasizing rural/agricultural
needs; (b) diversification from academic secondary education; and (c) orienta-
tion of higher education towards developmental priorities, including agricul-
ture. Significant structural changes were made in primary and secondary
education. Changes included (a) prolongation of primary education from six to
eight years for the 7-14 years' age group with introduction of practical
subjects in grades 7-8 in workshop extensions to be bqilt at schools;
(b) orientation of 90 percent primary leavers to CERAI of which about 1,300
were planned for pre-vocational training in grades 9-11; and (c) orientation
of 10 percent primary leavers to reformed secondary schools grades 9-14. It
was also decided to terminate double-shift in primary schools and automatic
promotion.
26.       Enrollment targets proved far too ambitious for the available
financial resources, teachers and construction capacity. However, through
commendable community efforts such as voluntary construction work and support
under the First Education project (Credit 567-RW), about 960 workshops were
added at primary schools and 200 centers for integrated rural and artisanal



-8-
education (CERAI) were built. With French and Belgian support reformed
curricula have been practically completed. But introduction of these
curricula in schools has not been successful for lack of qualified teachers
and textbooks, the latter estimated to average one set per eight students.
The Agriculture Faculty of the National University of Rwanda (NUR) was
developed with Caradian assistance but enrollments therein comprise only 10
percent of NUR students. Following this unsuccessful implementation
experience, the Government lowered targets in the Third Plan to eight percent
yearly growth in primary enrollments, provision of two CERAI per commune and
limitation of secondary enrollment increases to six percent yearly. The
double-shift system in primary education was retained and reduction of the
illiteracy rate from 63 to 59 percent was targeted.
Financing of Education
27.        The main contributors of aid to the education sector include: the
Feder-I. Republic of Germany, World Bank, Belgium, African Development Bank,
EEC, France, Switzerland and Canada. Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) aid,
largely sponsored by religious organizations to support a close-knit fabric of
local organizations, is another source.
28.       Recurrent Expenditures.  Reflecting the priority attached  by
Government to the development of human resources, the share of education in
the recurrent budget increased from less than 24 percent in 1979 to over 27
percent in 1983. Preliminary estimates indicate a further increase to 31 per-
cent in 1990. Over the last five years, the distribution of recurrent
expenditures between primary/post-primary (CERAI), secondary and higher educa-
tion has remained nearly constant and averaged 70 percent, 16 percent and 14
percent respectively. On the other hand, the structure of expenditures within
primary/post-primary education indicates a major and worrisome decline in the
share allocated to teaching materials and maintenance (from 14 percent in 1981
to three percent in 1984) as a result of severe overall budget cuts and
increased expenditures on teachers and school administration (this share
rising from 77 percent in 1981 to 90 percent in 1984).
29.       In contrast, the structure of expenditures in both secondary and
higher education has remained rather constant and marked by a relatively high
allocation to administration/boarding for secondary schools (37 percent of
secondary expenditures in 1984) and scholarships for higher education (31
percent of higher education expenditures in 1984). Unit recurrent costs per
student in 1983 were: US$43 in primary/post-primary, US$700 in secondary and
US$5,000 in higher education. By African standards, these unit costs are
relatively low in primary but relatively high in secondary and higher educa-
tion, due especially to low student/teacher ratios and high boarding costs.
30.       Capital Expenditures.   Witl4 a pragmatic approach to a difficult
budgetary situation, the Government has significantly reduced its capital
expenditures on education, from a level of RwF 410 million (US$3.7 million
equivalent) in 1980 to RwF 300 million (US$2.7 million equivalent) in 1984,
while the share of education in the Government capital expenditures also
declined from over 20 percent in 1980 to less than nine percent in 1984.



These figures, however, do not include external aid, which provided about
US$80 million (of which 36 pe:cent for technical assistance) in 1985 and is
expected to contribute US$50 million for future projects.
31.       The problems related to the financing of education will remain at
the center of the Bank Group sectoral dialogue with the Government. Followirg
a rapid increase from 1979 to 1981, mainly for teachers' salaries, education
expenditures like Government expenditures generally have stagnated in current
terms since 1981 clear*ly indicating a decline in real terms. Further adjust-
ment in teachers' salaries is currently under consideration. Given the poor
prospects for improvement in the Government's financial situation in the
medium-term, ways will have to be found to reduce unit costs and expand cost
sharing arrangements in order to allow continued growth in enrollment ratios
in primary education. In this connection, with financing from the on-going
Second Education Project (Credit 1263-RW), the Government is undertaking an
optimization study of resource uses in the primary education sector, which may
continue absorbing over 70 percent of the total resources allocated to
education.
Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
32.       The Bank Group has supported Rwanda's education sector through two
projects, emphasizing primary and secondary education development, respec-
tively. The First Education Project (Credit 567-RW) financed improvement in
quality of primary education and its relevance to job opportunities, and
institution building for project implementation. The Second Education Project
(Credit 1263-RW) supports commerce, nursing and primary teacher training in
secondary schools to meet acute shortages of personnel, with institution
building on the quality/pedagogical side through technical assistance for
improved training standards and more relevant curricula, and on the
administrative side for project execution. Findings of the Project Completion
Report (a Project Performance Audit Report has yet to be issued) for the First
Project indicate reasonable success in the provision of buildings and
equipment, establishment of project implementation and textbook printing
capacity. However, the report noted ineffective teacher training, weak
management of the school printshop and unsatisfactory textbook distribution
due to lack of storage space and inconsistent financial support. Lessons
learned from this experience are already being applied with good results in
the second project. Clearly, more compact projects (such as the second),
having fewer items, less widely scattered and more readily monitored by both
parties, are more appropriate for Rwanda at present.
33.       Forecasts of much more difficult economic circumstances for the
foreseeable future coupled with doubling of population by the year 2000 (with
vastly increased numbers demanding education, training and jobs) would lead to
severe financial constraints requiring the most cost-effective use of resour-
ces in the country's education and training system. overall, the sector must
assist the Government to the extent possible, in achieving the priority goals
of increasing agricultural productivity to ensure food supply, containing
demographic growth and developing human resources for economic and social
development at the maximum pace permitted by physical and financial
constraints.



- 10 -
34.       Bank Group support in the proposed project aims to gear education
and training programs to these needs as recommended in the Bank Group's
current Country Economic Memorandum. From our on-going discussions, we
believe progress is being made on two major problems, i.e., prolongation of
the primary cycle up to eight years, and premature establishment of two
university campuses. Both have pedagogical and economic shortcomings.
Double-shifting in grades 1-3 (which educators consider the most crucial
years), and teaching of practical subjects in grades 7-8--especially with the
high proportion of unqualified teachers and dire textbook shortages-are
considered to have a deleterious effect on quality and motivation. The IDA
Education Sector Memorandum (ESM) of June, 1985 proposed to shorten primary
education to grades 1-7 and phase out double-shifting as quality improvements
are realized and as financial resources permit.  During ESM discussions and
negotiations, Government ensured that an evaluation of progress in achieving
an agreed action program for improvement of education quality and cost-
effectiveness would be provided to the Bank Group by July 31 of each year.
The framework of such an action program would include improvement in teaching
quality and provision of textbooks, optimal utilization of resources in the
sector and better cost control throughout the education system.
35.       Problems emerging from the division of NUR into two campuses have
been discussed in ongoing dialogue with the Government when it was emphasized
that a comprehensive analysis is necessary as a prerequisite to cost-effective
development of its higher education system. As a result of discussioas,
Government requested Bank Group assistance in preparation of terms of
reference for such analysis, which is now being undertaken with UNDP support.
Results of the analysis would be discussed with the Association, with a view
to a more rational development of the higher education sector.
36.       Aid Coordination. The Association intends to continue to pursue
exchanges with Government and aid donors on required sector work, project
implementation and future aid possibilities. Coordination has been enhanced
by the meetings of a local aid donors' coordination group in Kigali, Bank
Group staff presented the findings of the ESM to the February, 1985 meeting of
the group.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       In the course of supervision and on-going dialogue with the Govern-
ment, the project was identified in February, 1984. Project preparation was
completed w'th UNESCO assistance in June, 1984 and appraised in March, 1985.
During negotiations in Washington from March 7-11, 1986, the Rwandese delega-
tion was led by Mr. Godefroid Ruzindana, Secretary General of MINEPRISEC. The
Staff Appraisal Report No. 5805-RW is being circulated separately.
Supplemental project data are included in Annex III.



- 11 -
Project Objectives and Description
38.       The project would assist the Government in its plan to improve the
quality and efficiency of its primary and post-primary education system
through providing for the supply and distribution of textbooks and other
teaching materials, establishment of a self-sustaining textbook/teaching
materials replenishment scheme and strengthening the management and planning
capacities of MINEPRISEC and MINIFOP through technical assistance and staff
training. The project would also alleviate the shortages of critically needed
manpower by supporting technical and vocational training.
39.       The project would consist of the following main components:
(i)    Supply and distribution of textbooks and teaching materials;
(ii)   Technical Secondary School;
(iii) National Vocational Training Center; and
(iv)   Studies, training, technical assistance and operating costs,
excluding salaries.
40.       Supply and Distribution of Textbooks and Teaching Materials.
Support would be provided for: (a) technical assistance for a manager (expert
advisor/accountant) and expert(s) in printing techniques to strengthen the
administration for textbook supply and distribution and provide training to
Rwandese counterparts; (b) a new central storage depot in Remera (Kigali
suburb) with office facilities and a modest regional transit depot in each of
the nine remaining prefectures; (c) supply of paper for textbooks, exercise
books and teachers' manuals; and (d) the introduction of a cost-sharing
book-usage scheme through collection of student fees, which would ensure
continuous replenishment of these items. In the past, there have been high
costs for textbooks due mainly to frequent changes in curricula. Government
has ensured that no major textbook revision in primary or post-primary school
curricula would be made before March 1992.
41.       The School Printshop, IMPRESCO, would be responsible for planning,
programming, implementation and monitoring of textbook printing and distribu-
tion. A Directorate under the authority of the MINEPRISEC, IMPRESCO was
granted technical and financial autonomy by Presidential Decree dated December
30, 1985. It is believed that with improved efficiency IMPRESCO could under-
take these responsibilities and produce these items timely and at competitive
prices. Terms of reference for the manager have been agreed with the Associa-
tion and the manager would be appointed by January 1, 1987. The manager would
also train his Rwandese counterparts and organize on-the-job training. Plan-
ning of the required textbooks and materials would be based upon enrollment
forecasts and procurement of paper timed for phased production. Government
would finance the supply of education materials.
42.       Communes and their Parents' Associations with schools' participation
would be responsible for collection of student fees and transportation of
educational materials from the regional depots to the schools. Deposited
student fees, transferred to an interest-bearing account in the Central Bank,
National Bank of Rwanda (NBR), would form the basis of a School Supplies
Revolving Fund established by the MINEPRISEC to ensure sustained replenishment
of textbooks and teaching materials. This account would be established and a
MINEPRISEC circular defining the student fees cost-sharing scheme would be
issued by June 30, 1988.



- 12 -
43.       A management committee having representatives of the MINEPRISEC,
Ministry of Finance and the NBR has been established to advise IMPRESCO's
management and monitor its operations. Monitoring would include quarterly
review of the revolving fund and IMPRESCO accounts as well as operational
plans, procurement and inventories for IMPRESCO and the Remera depot. These
reviews would be incorporated into the semi-annual reports to be transmitted
for IDA review and comment. The project includes support for continuous
monitoring of the textbook distribution and cost-sharing schemes.
44.       Technical Secondary School (TSS).  The TSS with 270 student places,
to be located at Kibuye (prefecture capital) close to Lake Kivu, would provide
a six-year program for higher technicians and introduce two new mechanical
engineering streams, heavy duty mechanics and plant maintenance. Existing and
planned output of engineering technicians fall well short of requirements, and
needs for the two disciplines mentioned above are acute. The yearly output of
about 36 technicians would be absorbed equally by the labor force, higher
education and technical teaching. Basic curricula are satisfactory, and
Government has agreed that upper-level curricula required for heavy duty
mechanics and plant maintenance would be developed under financing from the
Second Education project (Credit 1263-RW) for Bank Group review by June 30,
1988.
45.       The existing Kicukiro TSS has suffered from a high attrition
rate which seems mainly due to poor instructor quality and weak student
selection procedures. A study of the problem by MINEPRISEC educators, in
cooperation with Kicukiro TSS staff, began in December 1985. Satisfactory
proposals to apply the study results in the new IDA-financed TSS in Kibuye,
including improved selection procedures, is a condition of disbursement
against the civil works category of thie Kibuye TSS. To ensure efficient
launching and management of the TSS, the project provides for two years of a
suitably qualified and experienced director beginning January, 1989. A
suitable Rwandese deputy director intended to succeed him would also be
appointed by the same time and be trained in management of the school.
Recruitment proposals for the director and deputy director would be provided
for Bank Group review and comment by September 30, 1988. The project would
include academic and boarding facilities and staff housing.
46.       National Vocational Training Center (NVTC).  The NVTC, to be located
in Kigali, would provide both initial training programs (maximum nine months
period) and shorter upgrading courses for skilled workers and would have a
capacity to train 120 students at any one time, although there would be 240
training stations. Initial basic training would be given in six specialties:
mechanics, welding/sheet metal work, electricity, auto-mechanics, carpentry
and building construction. This basic training would be followed first by
on-the-job industrial training and later by upgrading/re-training of one-year
equivalent to qualify students as skilled workers. Evening courses are
expected to be developed at the NVTC. Rwanda's requirements of skilled
workers in the above specialities surpass existing and projected output.



- 13 -
47.       A National Vocational Training Board (NVTB) attached to the HINIFOP
would be established to develop vocational training policy and would have
representation from other concerned ministries, the private sector and estab-
lished trade unions. Under policy guidance from the NVTB and administrative
authority of the MINIFOP, the vocational training office of the NVTC would be
responsible for (in addition to training) planning and programming of
vocational training and training activities outside the center, including
in-plant training for specific skills and apprenticeship training. It is
expected that close links will be developed by the NVTC with private and
parastatal industrial enterprises.
48.       To ensure efficient management and training in the NVTC three
specialists-a technical adviser, a planner/programmer and an extension train-
ing specialist-would be recruited. Recruitment proposals would be
transmitted to the Association for review and comment by July 31, 1986.
Technical secondary school graduates with industrial experience would be
appointed to receive on-the-job teaching instruction and fellowship training
abroad. The draft contract commitment for both TSS and NVTC fellowship
trainees supported under the project, to work for a minimum of five successive
years in these institutes upon their return from training abroad, would be
finalized and transmitted for Bank Group review and comment by June 30, 1987.
Technical Assistance and Training
49.       The technical assistance program provides for 30 staffyears of
specialists services and 46 staffyears of fellowship training. Five
staffyears of specialists services are included for an expert advisor/
accountant to manage textbook distribution and maintain project accounts; two
staffyears for expert(s) in printing techniques; and two staffyears for a
director of the TSS. However, the major portion of technical assistance
services (18 staffyears) is allocated to the NVTC, of which eight for MINIFOP
institution building and preparation for launching the center; the remaining
10 staffyears are for vocational trainers for start-up of NVTC training. The
major portion of fellowship training (28 staffyears) is allocated to the TSS
for 14 selected Rwandese to train abroad for two years each in the
specialities they will teach upon return. Training abroad would be included
for the Rwandese director and training chief of the NVTC, as well as for the
trainers in the six specialties to be taught. UNDP, which is expected to
select ILO as implementing agency, would provide grant financing for 22 of the
above staffyears of technical assistance and fellowship training.
Female Participation in the Education System
50.       In primary education and CERAI, where about one million students
will be affected by the textbook component of the project, enrollment of
females in 1984 was 48 and 46 percent, respectively. In secondary education
in 1984, female enrollment by general, technical and teacher training streams
was 19, 40 and 45 percent, respectively. However, because of existing
traditions and the very specialized nature of the courses to be provided in



- 14 -
the TSS and the NVTC, percentages of female students in these institutes are
not expected to increase in the foreseeable future. The percentage of female
students in the NUR has gradually increased over recent years to reach 16
percent in 1984.
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$19.0 million, of
which 72 percent or US$13.6 million represent foreign exchange costs. Base
costs are in March 1986 prices. Cost estimates for civil works, furniture,
equipment and vehicles were based on data from implementation of the First and
Second IDA Education projects and on construction activities financed from
other sources. Base cost per student (academic and communal) is estimated at
US$6,500 for the TSS and US$7,200 for the NVTC. The average unit base cost of
construction (excluding equipment) varies from about US$360 equivalent per
square meter for technical workshops (secondary education) to about US$490
equivalent per square meter for the science laboratories. Costs reflect,
inter alia, the transport difficulties associated with a landlocked country
and heavy dependence on the external supply of goods and services. Physical
contingencies averaging six percent are included. Price contingencies for
local costs have been estimated at about 10 percent p.a. for 1986-88 and 7
percent for 1989-91; for foreign costs, 7 percent for 1986-87, 7.5 percent for
1988, 7.7 percent for 1989, 7.6 percent for 1990 and 4.5 percent for 1991.
52.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 13.5 million (US$15.6 million
equivalent) would cover 88 percent of total costs (net of taxes and duties)
and 100 percent of foreign expenditures except for the UNDP contribution.
UNDP would provide about US$1.3 million in joint financing on a grant basis,
representing 7 percent of total costs. A special condition of credit
effectiveness would be provision by UNDP of a signed project document under
which technical assistance required for the NVTC would be furnished.
Government would contribute US$0.8 million or 5 percent of funds required for
the project plus US$1.3 million in taxes. The incremental recurrent costs to
be generated by the project are estimated at an annual RwF 67.3 million
(US$0.4 million equivalent) and would account for 0.9 percent of total
recurrent expenditures on education in 1992 when the project would be in full
operation. The project has been designed to minimize cost impact on the
budget through setting up of a cost-sharing scheme for the supply of textbooks
and teaching materials (para. 42).
Implementation
53.       Tne project would be implemented over five and a half years and is
expected to be completed by June 30, 1991, with a Closing Date of December 31,
1991. The implementation schedule is based on, inter alia, experience derived
from the First and Second IDA Education Projects in Rwanda and takes into
account that preparation of most of the required preliminary architectural
designs and furniture/equipment lists with estimated costs have been prepared.



- 15 -
54.       The SFCS (Service de Financement des Constructions Scolaires), which
was established under the First Education Project and is responsible for
implementation of the Second Education Project and education projects financed
by other donor agencies, would implement the MINEPRISEC components of this
project. The Training Director in MINIFOP would have responsibility for
execution and overall administration of the NVTC component. He would be
assisted by the technical assistance team, in particular the chief technical
adviser. The expert advisor/accountant in the SFCS would maintain project
accounts both for SFCS and MINIFOP. SFCS would be adequately staffed and
maintained during project implementation.
55.       Status of Preparation.  Preliminary equipment lists and sketch
designs with cost estimates were provided prior to negotiations for the TSS
and depots (MINEPRISEC items). These equipment lists have been reviewed and
costs revised downward, As preparation of preliminary designs for the NVTC
was delayed, a condition of Credit effectiveness is that an architectural firm
acceptable to the Association would be selected to carry out this work. Terms
of reference have been prepared for all studies planned, training and
technical assistance needs bave been identified with terms of reference
prepared fcr all assignments, and satisfactory procedures for recruitment of
consultants agreed. A schedule for timely recruitment of key personnel has
been prepared. Contract packages and procurement methods have been defined
and a schedule bas been prepared for civil works and equipment procurement.
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       Procurement.   Rwanda's procurement procedures are being reviewed by
an IDA assessment mission. Although I1. report has not been completed, local
procedures are understood to be gene;32'.ly acceptable. Contracts for civil
works, furniture, equipment and vehicles would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for
procurement. However, civil works contracts costing less than US$250,000
equivalent each and contracts for furniture and equipment costing less than
US$50,000 each (an aggregate not to exceed US$1.0 million) would be awarded by
competitive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with local proce-
dures. Standardized sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists
of furniture, equipment and vehicles indicating proposed grouping and
estimates of costs would be reviewed by the Association. Items would be
grouped to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to
permit bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents prior to award
would be required only for contracts above US$250,000 equivalent for civil
works and US$50,000 equivalent for furniture, equipment and other materials.
57.       Where international competitive bidding procedures are used: (a)
domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a
preference of 15 percent, or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers; and (b) if
applicable, qualified domestic contractors would be allowed a preferential
margin of 7.5 percent over prices of competing foreign contractors. Procure-
ment arrangements are sumarized in Annex IV. All specialists and consultants
would be hired in accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants.



- 16 -
58.       Disbursement.  The typical disbursement profile for Rwanda is eight
years. Under the on-going Second Education project, disbursements are still
slow; but since moat of the construction envisaged is underway or starting up,
disbursements are expected to rapidly increase and the project should be
completed on schedule. Based on this projection, the proposed project would
have a five and one-half year disbursement profile which is considered
reasonable. Funds from the Credit would be disbursed on the basis of: (a) 85
percent of expenditures for civil works; (b) 100 percent of foreign expendi-
tures and 80 percent of local expenditures for furniture, equipment, vehicles
and other materials, technical assistance, studies, professional services and
seminars; and (c) 70 percent of expenditures for operating costs excluding
salaries.
59.       All disbursements would be fully documented except those for
furniture, equipment, vehicles and other materials plus studies and local
seminars, contracts for which value would be less than US$10,000 equivalent.
These would be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs), documentation
for which would be retained by the Borrower and readily available for review
by Bank Group representatives during project supervision. The Borrower would
not submit applications for reimbursement valued below US$20,000 equivalent.
The SFCS has satisfactory institutional capacity to use SOEs and manage the
special account (para 60).
60.       Special Account. A Special Account would be established at the
National Bank of Rwanda (NBR) with an initial deposit by IDA of about
US$400,000 to cover about three months of expenditures. It would be
replenished on the basis of documentary evidence, to be provided to the Bank
Group by the SFCS, of payments made from the account for goods and services
required for the project. In order to ensure that the Government's counter-
part funding would be available when needed, the Government would establish a
separate project advance account into which it would deposit, quarterly, its
share of project costs, and which would be maintained at a level of not less
than RwF 50,000. Establishment of the Project Advance Account and depositing
the initial amount of RwF 500,000 into it would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
Reporting, Evaluation and Auditing
61.       Semi-annual reports on implementation would be submitted to the Bank
Group by the SFCS for the MINEPRISEC items and by MINIFOP for the NVTC. The
Government, with assistance of MINEPRISEC and HINIFOP, would prepare and send
to the Bank Group for comments a completion report within six months of the
Closing Date. Annual auditing of project accounts would be required for all
expenditures financed under this project, with particular attention to those
expenditures reimbursed under statements of expenditure. Audits would be
performed by auditors acceptable to the Bank Group and applying satisfactory
auditing procedures. Audit reports would be submitted to the Bank Group
within six months of the close of the Borrower's fiscal year.



- 17 -
Benefits
62.       The project'e main benefits would include Improvement of the quality
of education through increasing provision of textbooks and materials from 12
to 50 percent (one set per two students) for about one million primary and
post-primary students, practically all of whom are in the poverty target
group. About 20,000 sets of teaching manuals would be provided and introduc-
tion of student fees yielding about US$2.0 million yearly would help render
this service self-sustaining. The project would also seek to increase yearly
output of much-needed engineering technicians, skilled workers and other
vocationally-trained personnel by 36, 60, and 240, respectively, and continue
institution building within the MINEPRISEC and MINIFOP.
Risks
63.       The two main risks concern management and implementation capa-
bility. Efficient management of the textbook and teaching materials scheme
will require effective coordination in planning, programming and execution
between the curriculum center for primary education and IMPRESCD in Kigali, as
well as close monitoring of distribution in the regions. Introduction of a
book-usage fee payment by students and handling of fees before their deposit
into the School Supplies Revolving Fund would also need close monitoring. To
assure appropriate management, capable specialists would be provided under the
project to launch the institutes efficiently and train Rsandese counterparts
to maintain established standards upon their departure.  In addition, funds
are included in the project for field monitoring of distribution and
cost-sharing.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
64.       1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 25, 1986



- 18 -
Annex M..
TABLE  s                                          Page  1 of  6
RWASDA                 - SOCIAL loDtOB OAS   s
NOBT                     cNoS? Bu! TEUTIAT) /b
i,~@L~k  190~: 330f8          LOW =CM~ AMRCa           NIOLI 1rO2f
L%oLb         B3IHI~Lk          Soul or sANAM&       AFMCA S.O or  333*R
AiAn cimuarn sQ.  O
TOTAL                              Z.3         26.1       26.3
ANRZON.IUBAL                        135.0a      13.2        11.
CW     CITA ( )                         ..          ..       270.0              233.8                   1063.3
si4aBA   0r OnL eQl.Alw            10.0        11.0       1.0                62.3                    381.
WZeLr JIDS VTAL ITAEXTISI
WFiL.ATIONAID-Tm  (TUOoSAu)   2753.0         3493.0      567..0
UAW B  OIULATIaU(ZOr TOrAL)          2.4        3.2         4.8               20.1                     32.0
FopuIATIOU P3OZ3CTOU
POPULAUC  IS TM 2000 CN3.)                               10.2
S?TTraUsT POIULUIOS (PULL)                               40.0
POPULATI NOIEN                                            2.0
IOPFULATIOK DEISMT
M   sQ. EL                       101.5       140.3      213a                33.2                     15.1
FM Sq. NI. Ja. LAND              1".1        212.9      370.9              1124                     121.8
tOIUUZZ   AE STUCCUIX, (C)
0-16 235                         44.2        13.8       4.6                "6.                      45.0
15-4 us                           53.0        51.5       50.5               50.3                     51.5
*5 AM AOI2. ZA                                 2.7        2.3                2.9                      2.7
PWroLATIW -Rum amE (I)
TOTAL X.                                       2.9        3.3                Z.                       1.9
*E                                 3.3         5.81       6.3                GA                       5.1
Can KM          CME  (M 0WS)        51.1        51.         1.9              47.2                      47.0
CARDS  T1AU "AME CU =NS)            19.2       17.6        1.4                17.                      15.0
com   EDBoIcIO  RAZZ                 3.3        3.8         4.1               3.3                       3.2
FANILT PLARNI
A. T(S. AUL. (TM)                  ..
R CZ OF 3AR81 VWN1)                ..          ..         I.                 3.3                      6.4
FM3 AM -DNI
1U110 orn   FeDO. PrE CAPu
C1969-71-10D)                       *1.0       102.0      107.0              33.3                      32.9
PU CAP=A SOWLI OF
cUAL-    CE or B1UOIm3UU          81.0        35.0 *8.0                     37.7                    ,B.5
,moi3ms CU(GU   PU OAT)           49.0        54.0       50.0               31.9                    S5S.
OF MtaCI INSIAL AN ML            26.0   A     3.0       29.0 lc            18.7                     16.5
CN1D (AMS 1-4) DKAT! NE             37.3        32.5      z2.0                23.1                     16.
LI  mEXPET. AT 31W (YEARS)          4.2         48.0       ".5               47J                       s2.0
DWASr HIM. MM   M  MM5)            16.3       149.3       125.0              119.5                    106.8
MCSS TO SAU WAU (170,)
diL                                            .         54.0 Ad           27.1                      42.4
0333                               .           .         48.0 t            63.5                      67.3
RUL                                           0. 55.  M                     19.3                     353
tUS  TO r CEM OrSPOSAL
CIZ Of WOILAUOU2
TOTAL                                        33.0        31.0 /a           26.3                      23.9
tRia                                         33.0 6U.0 0                   65.4                      37.7
RumA!                              .         3.0         50.0 71           20.0                      20.7
PCIL&TIN PUR PImIC5tc           139050.0 la 59600.0    31340.0 d          27901.7                   L179.7
7QW. PU  UCLG PDRO               11270.0         .0      979.0             3300.                     2459.8
or. M  mSPTaL BCD
TOTAL                              -.       730.0       650.0 la          1273.4                    9B1.1
03335                              0. 50.0               50. 71           428.2                     368.a
3Rum!.                             ..      3100.0    100  7E           32U2.5                   4371.9
As           MMSPITAL BCD                      Zl.2                          Z' 2
AOHISONS13WlI!  1                   ..        2.2          ..                ..                      2..
AZMBIMZ SZE OF 300L0ZN
ToTAL                              ..         ..
ciNAL                              ..         ..
AWMEN. 0?o r36/30
FBNGUTUOW DW.LTRU  UIr DICT.
ToL                                ..         ..          .
SEDAN..                               ..         .                  ..
MEA                                ..         ..          .                  .o



-19-
Annex I
rA * L t  A                                       Page  2 of  6
R'JAIUA                - SDCIAL INDICATORS DATA 
RUIDAM                               RSVEIICX GROUP CUEIGHTS  AVERAGE) La
WmST                     CHosT RICIHT UST?UIA) lb
Iqlab  SNW             LOWU iuMs  AtICA         "IDON AIIN
lX4^-    l9TO  CsrZTc               SOU  oPr SAMA        AtIlCA S. GP SANARA
ADJUST0 EnUOUJW RATIOS
PRINART:  TOML                    49.0        74.0       70.0               67.                      93.7
HL                     68.0        33.0        72.0              77.6                     100.0
FINUA                  30.0        65.0       67.n               54.9                      53.2
S sIIDARTa TOTAL                 2.0         2.0        2.0 )             13.3                      17.3
PALS                    2.0         3.0         3.0     f/       17.9                      25.0
F111AE                  1.0         1.0        2.0      -         9.1                      14.
vac8xzmwi :( or su3ana)             39.9        12.2       24.6 }             13.2                      3.9
PURIL-mimiNB RAMI
PDINAff                           39.0       60.0       53.0                44.9                     41.1
SEGEISAIT                         14.0        13.0       14.0               2.                       25.3
PASSOR CAfTO5SAND FP                 0.         0.9         ..                  .                      20
mImo u     uTAusm                    ..          8.1       2.8               s5.a                     107.A
V                     1              ..          .. .-                         24                      20.
IUAnPR ("DAILT GUAL
IOTDZSV) CLO0Un Ox
MR  00        FOPULAT               .. .-                  0.1                3.0                     L.4
CINl AlAL A. tIIIMCAfTA              ..         .-          0.1                0.3                      0.4
UNOR -
TOTL LaO PO     (WM)              133.0       2007.0     2913.0
FEN" (FImi?)                      49.2        46.6       "8L4               3.2                      36.2
AGRICUUUES CPEECZNT               93.         M3.        91.0 /d            77.5                     34.3
IUSTZTCT(S)                        1.0         2.0        Z.o7;              9.7                     18.3
P*EI?IIATI               WIEC1~
TOL                               56.5        34.3       31.4               39.3                     35.
HALZ                              56.9       356.9       34.5               30.9                     47.1
.MOSS                             34.4       51.9        49.1               28.1                     27.2
azOuc DOUIGE RAT                     MA         0.9         0.9                1.3                      1.3
or r BTMZC
um -
Imr sz oir Husca                   ..          ..=
RI ? 20101  UOUSID_ S              ..          ..         .                   ..
LOUIES 20Z or  1u_sem              ..          ...
LOVES 4010 OlrUSODS                ..          ..         ...
LEE CUSM P  CAIA)
.3843                              ..          ..       148.0 Ic           1S.                      390.7
MAL                                ..         ..          ,.                93.0                    2733
USTT&UD RELATIPVEMuM 
UL  (1S PER CAPTA)
A                                  ..         ..          ..               113.1                    33.6
EZRa.                         ..          ..        43.0 Ic            57.6                    201.1
ERIDWIO POF. 1X40 AMu8TKU
PUVETY 2600HZ LEVEL CZ)
cam                                ..         ..         30.0/c 75.6.
RRA'L                              ..         ..          ..               561.A
Or1 AWAILJEE
OTr AICAc
*OT Z S
1  TSea" awerape for each indimcor are ,..._  i   -  i               ariehee    m_am. Cawerag. of emattrie
nce ladftetars depend  rs avehlabdlZ7 of data and to _a  um
L  Iale_e othezuLsg noced. "DarA for 195   reter to mp per betwee  1959 and 1951: Dtra for 197r bI
1969 aid 1971; *m  data far 'Mat -e=t gegmnet  buamea 1931 sod 1983.
I.e  197; Id 1980; La 1962.
f/ Education indicators updated as follows:
Primary:  Total   65.0                       Vocational                  10.0
Female  63.0                 Pupil-teacher-                                 awu im
Secondary Total    5.0                       Priatyio.
Male   7 0            Primary                    40.0
Fmale         7.0            Secondary                   16.0
'Female       3.0



-20-                                                       Anmex I
rage r of 6
DEFINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes: Although tdI d re dawn from sournsenralyjudged the moa authoritaive and rdial t ahould also be noted that they may not be inuenassoatly
comparble beause of the bck of itandardied deflainton nd concept used by diffhent counties in colicung the dau. The data at nonetleks useu to
decaibe orders of magiatude. Indicate tresd. and chamr.enze certain mjor differnce btween couruneL
The feference roup am I I) Ithe same country sroup Or the subject country and tZI a country group with somewhat higher avge income than the comtty
group or the subje country teacept or -High Income Oil Exporter group where -Middle Income North ArnL and Middle Eair is chosn becaue iorsonge
socio.cultural alilnitleas In the rerence group data the average are populton wehted anthdetic meais rr each indicator and shown only when mjornity
or the contrine in a group bas data for that indicator. Since the coverge ofcountries aong the indicator dependi on the availability odata and is not  rmeon.
caution must bees cased in relang averages of one indiator to another Thesc avcrges a only useful in comparing the value of one indcator a* tinm among
the coumry nd reference groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                         Crude Birth Rare (per theuzaid)-Numberof live births in theyear
Total-Total surface area comprising land arma and inland waters:  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crudr Deth Rare (per tehNoad)-Number of deaths in the year
Agricskuan-tEstimate of agricultural area used temporatily or  per thousand of mid-ycar population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanendy for crops, pastures market and kitchen gardens or to  Grea Repradedas Rate-Average number of daughtcrs a woanan
lie fallow. 1960.1970 and 1982 data                            wilg bear in her normal reproductive period if she exin
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-ycar avcerges ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimatcs at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as World   Fail PIanala-Accepmor. Anna (shausandfl-Annual num-
Bank Arias (1981-83 basis) 1993 data.                          ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMMON  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of commercial prirmary energy (coal and lignite,   Fand5 PlanbW-Usen (percet ofmarried sirnsen-The penn-
pctroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing agc who are practicing or
tricity) in kllograms of oil equivalent per capita 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practiing any form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-bearing age are generally woenn aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraecptive usage is measured for ocher age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups.
Totad l9Popuaiwn,  iYd-Fe  (tthoands)-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Urban Populton (percent of total)-Ratio of urban to total      ladex ofFed Pbdim Per Capt (1969-71 - 100)-Index of per
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  xdudis annmal feep and sed or agricultlf  Food come odities
ability of data among counties; 1960, 1970. and 1983 dataL    inude primary commodities (eg. sugarcane intead of suar)
Populto Projejtion                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (eu.g coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 20DO,  excluded): they comprise cereas, root crops puls, oil seeds,
made fror each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates, and  Cvestock products Agregpte production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 196165. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalzed  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             er Capita Supply ofCloi  (prcent ofrquirmesj -Comput-
Stationary populatin-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from caloie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fmertity rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports, and changes in stodc. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculure quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age sructure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growtb rate is zero. The stationary population  esiumated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and bealth considering environmental temperature body weights.
the population in the year 2000 and the rate of decine of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement lcvel,                                     waste at household level 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Populaion Moenwtun-ls the tendency for popula.zon growth to    Per Cptoa Suy oqfPot  (grans per day-Protein contcnt of
continue beyond the time that replacement-lekd fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achived; that is cven after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year f is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protin per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 gams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the ycai t. given tbe assumption that fertiliy remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment levl from year t onward, 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
-            DOatE                                             avcrage for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqJbm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (00 hec-  Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) f total aea; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.                 hr Capita Poen Sapply From Anil ad PaIs-Protein  supply
Per siqnL agricsutural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in gmrms perda.y; 196165.
land only. 1960, 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Populatin Age Strcr (percent-Children (0-14 years). work-      cil (ae 1-4) Deat Rate (per /aoumosd-Number ofdeaths of
ing age (15-64 ycars), and rtcired (65 years and ovcr) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand childre in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.             group in a given year For most developing countries data deived
Populaion Growth Rate (percenirD-croa-Annual growth rates of   from fife tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALIH
Populwan Growth Rate ('perece _-mrbn-Annual growth rates       Life Expectanc-r Si& (yearns)-Number of year   newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevauing patte    of mortality for al pople



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2   -
, .  - 21 -                                            Annex I
Page 4 of 6
at the tm  of of its birth wac to say the sam  throughout it lfe;  Pup&teacher Ratio - prlmarv. and secondry-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 dRta.                                      rolled in primary and secondary levls divided by numbers of
Isom Mwtalt Roe (peer thouaad).-Number of infants who die      teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching on year of age per thousand live births in a given
year; 196O 1970 and 19U3 data.                                 CONSUMIPTION
Acceas to* S  Wee  (pw       1 pf   muie.,)-mdw , and          Pasaeer C-s (per thekmld popisdon)-pnssenger cars com-
maD-Number or people (total urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars salting lss than eight pcrsons excludes ambul-
accus to safe water supply (includes trated surface waters or  ances. heares and military vehicls.
untrated but uncontominated waer such as that from protected   Red!# Reelrr (pe theaudpapakdon)-AI types of receiver
boseholes,png and sanitary wde) U percnta n of tbeir tapec-    for radio broadcasts to gneral public per thousand of population;
dye populations. In an urban areaa public fountain or stpost   ecludes un-licensed receivers in countres and in years when
locatd not ore thn 20   tesm from a house nay be consded       ra * *                                         t 
as being within reusonable access of that hou   In   a         nore       ofpadio sets was   iec a       for recent yesn  may
reasoable acce would imply that the housewife or members of the  not be compaabe snce most countre abolished licensing.
houseold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVRe il (per thmandp.du)m-TV receivers for broadcast
in fchig te fily's water needs*                                to generl public per thousund popuation; cxdudes unicensed TV
Ac ao E.rawr Dispml (percet #OfPepv4adaa)-toet        .        receiver in countries and in years when resration of TV sets was
and m L-Number of people (totaL urbanad mrul) sed              in effec.
ecreta dbposl as percentages of their epective populations.    Neweper Crcakti.u (per thomandp.opamon-Shows the aver-
Excreta dsposa may include the collection and disposal, with or  ae circulation of -daily genal interest newspaper.- defined as a
without tratment, of human exceta and was-water by water-      perioical publicaton devoted primarnily to recording genral news.
borne syst    or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be daily' if it appears at least four times a week.
Populaxper p  _Pysicon-lopulation divided by number of p       Ci_na Amnn_  Attan  per Capita per Yea-Based on the
tsing physicia  qualifed from a medical shool at universicty  eL  number of tickets sold during the year. induding admissions to
Popui_ n  par Nwsin Pawn-lopulation divided by aurber of       drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practcing  _me _id female gaduate nurses. assistant nurses.    LABOR FORCE
praccal nures and nursing auxiliarie                              LABOR FORCE
5PLI. pa He JW- ' Popladtiona  rrm                             Te La_o fic  (rhesnd)Economicaily acive perons, in-
(total urba   and A ral divided by their  id nopulbptdation    duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hostaLl "bed  avani  public nd prtei respective nu lber,of    studets. etc, covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hosph bs and bx  }o         pi tan rzc   aals  n   isad        variou s     counties am ot  ccmparabm e 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
manendy stffed by at ket one phydicL Establishnents prv        Fe  (pear)-Fanale labor fore as percentage of total labor
iding pinociplly cntodial care are not included Rural hospitals.    forme.
howe, include health and medical centes  not pemanently staffed  Apicfta  (percent)-Labor force in farmg. oressry hunting
by a physician (but by a mndical assiant. nurse, midwife, et.)  and fishing as perce tage of totl labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer iapatient accommodation and prvide a limited lange  datu
of medical feOihbes.                                          Iudasay (pnecon)-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Addisd.n per Hopad Bed-Total nuLmber of admissions to or       facturing and eectricity. water and gas as percetage of total lbor
dischiarges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pi,Ar    Rare (pogrc_L-ro4 ml. andfhk-Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rtes are computed as total. male. and remale labor force
Alogo  She of Hoshold (po. p. kons  ou)-eitaim,                as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
mdrr-A houehold consists ofa group ofindividuas  who share     respectively. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data These are based on ILO's
lving quarters and teir ino meals A boarder or lodger may or   participation rat reflecting age-sex srucureofthe population. and
may not be inluded in the household for satiscal purposes     long time trend. A few estimates are from national source.
'; A Nmbe pr ef ,as pge Abomi-ta  WM. and rsra!-             Ec&mi Depeademj Rado-Ratio of population under 15. and
Avera  number of perom  per roomt in al urban. and  mial       65 and over to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwens, respectively. Dwedings exude
notn-puerianeit struces and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pr"=aagwe  Diud5s Wm Ee i-e.ed. am, and                       Pfere   of Tra  Dspoable me (both in case and fd)-
Conventional dwelinG  with elctricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percntile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban, and rural dwellings rpectively           hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A fsted Ewdlmm Rad.                                           The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
ir..y s*Jdoa - mat  ,k andfe                 total. male and   kl  and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollm  of all ages at the primary led as perentge of  Est&zted Absofiti heft     Inm  Leed (LSSper eapit)-.r_an
resetive pimary school-ge populations. While many counties     and ,nab-Absolute poverty income klvel is rhat income level
coflder primary school age to be 6-11 yeas, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country pices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable
are reflected in the ratios Sivn. For some countries with unversal  Ecstb,ed Rekarv PoAv  Ine  Levef (US per capsr-ar-ban
education,   a   rolmnt may exeed 100 pecent sine some         aJ rar -Rural rdaive poverty income evel is one-third of
pupils are beow or above the coutys standard prmaary-shool     average per capita personal income of the country. Urban lvel is
r-r                                                            derived from the rural leve with adjustment for higher cost of
Secamday shool - tal. male andfaema-Computed as above;    living in urban arcas.
secondary educatio  requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimated Popaldr leow Absolut Povertylccme Leid (per-
mry instrucion; provides geeL vocatonl or echer taining        cat)-arb  ad    l- Prct of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils  ually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are absoluwe pooe"
encecoms arwe eeally excluded
Vodotai Eao       i (perct of scoauy)-Vocational institL-                Comparative Analysis and Data Divison
mons include technial idustaL or other programs which opeate          Economic Analysis and Prjectios Deprtment
inependenty or as departments of secondary  stitunton                                  June 1985



-22 -                                      Annex I
Page 5 of 6
COUNTRY DATA - RWANDA
AREA                                           POPULATION                          DENSITY (t1983)
Z6.3 :bousaud sq. km.                          5.7 *Illion (1983)                  210 per sq. km.
Rate of Crowth:                     393 per sq. km. of
3.7Z                                   arable land
POPULATION CRAPACTERISTICS C1981-83)                                 WEALTH C1980)
Crude Birtb Rate  per 1.000)              51.9                       Populatlon per physician         31.340
Crude Doath Rate (per 1.000)              19.4                       Populaccon per hospital bad         660
INCOME DISTRIUBTION                                                  ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
Z of-Unationl income, highest qulntile   .                           (Kilogram- of coal equivalent)   28.0
lovwet quintile
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (1980)                                          ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
I of population - total                   54.0                        of population - total             2.0
- rural
ThIN   (1981-83                                                      EDUCATION (1980)
C-lori- l, a    *o aiZ of requirements    88.0                       Aduit lic-racV rate S              37.0
Per capita proteln Intake                 50.0                       Primary school enrollmet Z         72.0
(grams/day)
CNP PER CAPITA IN 19837    USS 260
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1983                                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROVTU
(2. constant 1983 prices) 2/
US$ min.       S                                         1979-84
CDP at Market Prices          1,503.1      100.0                                         *.2
Grose Domestic Investmen        203.5       13.5                                         7.1
Gross Naetlnal Saving            39.6        2.6
Curr-nt Account Balance        -170        -11.3
Export of Goods. NFS            137.3        9.1                                        -2.8g3
Import of Goods. NFS            272.3       18.1                                         5.1
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
ivF Min                I of CUP
1986          1984             1980
Current Receipts                        1 7739         11.0             12.4
Current Zxpenditure                     15,753         10.0              9.4
Current Surplusldefieit                  1.616           1.0             2.9
Capltal Expenditures                     2,626          1.7              2.1
Overall Surplus/deficit */              -3.741         -2.3              0.8
.I Preliminary data.
2/ Based on end-period values.
TI The decline a exports durlg thls period Is explained by the fact that 1979 weo
an export boon year.
4/ The overall surplus Is not equal to the difference between current savnlgs and development
expenditures because the consolidsted surplus or deficit of the Treasury apecial accounts is not sbown In this
table.
not available
not applicable



- 23 -                                             Annex I
COUNTRY DATA - RWANDA                                      Page 6 of 6
Howny. CUCETT AND PRICES                    1979         1980         1981         19R2         1983         1984
(Millleu R at otemtanding end perlod)
louey Suppl'17                             14.112       14.117       15,938       11S155      1,034        19.074
sank Credit to government (net)            -1,473       -3.981       -2,918         -682        2.010        1.912
Bank CredSt to Private Sector               4,564        6,&80        8,147        8,849        9,887       11,587
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
mosey as I of CDP                            14.8         13.1         12.9         12.0         12.8         12.2
Consuesr Price Index (1980 - 100)            93.2        100.0        106.5        119.8        127.7        137.5
Annual percentage changes Ins
Ceounuer Price 1-de-                       13.8          7.3          6.5         12.4          6.6          7.7
bank Credit to Govarusent (net)         -6404.3        170.3        -26.7        -76.6      -394.7          -6.9
lank Credit to Private Sector             -11.1         42.0         25.7          8.6         11.7         17.2
U3LANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS tAVERAGE 1979-1984'
Actual                                            USs "In.       2
(in currenc US 8)
1980    19H1   1982 _93 T98A4r             coffse                 83.2       61.7
Tom                    13.7       10.3
Exports of Coods * Servlces             166    10    161    150    172           Casmeterit.             13.0       9.6
of wicbh:  _ rchandles f.o.b.        (134)   (113)  (109)  (124)  (141)         Wolfram                  3.8       2.8
tIports of Goods 4 Services            -323    -332   -338   -307   -309          Pyrethrus                t.1        0.8
of which:  aerchandles f.o.b.    (-196)  (-207) (-215) (-190) (-184)            Cinchona                 1.'        1.0
Not Troanfers                            -3      -2      -1     -5       5        Other                   18.6       13.8
Net Factor Income                         5      12      -2     -8      -4                               134 8     100.
Current Account  alansce               -155    -168   -198   -170   -136          EXTERNAL DERT, DECERBER 31. 1983
USS Hin.
Officlal Grsats                         106     106    105    112    101          Public Debt. incl.guarnateed  z20o0
Private Direct Investment                17      19      21     11      10        Nom-Guaraneed Prlvate Deebt
hLS offStial (Cea)                       33      25      25     36      39        Total Outstanding 4 Disbursed   -
=     Other Capital                            12       17      4      -8      -
Cbange in Rsrs                          -13        1     43     19    -14         NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984 31
International Reserver                  165     166    123    104    118                                          2
Reserves an moths of Imports           6.1     6.0    4.3    4.0    4.5          Public Debt, Incl.guaranteed 3.5
of goods and of services                                                       Non-Cuaranteed Private Debt   -
Petroleum SuortwsJ                     28.7    43.2   46.0   51.0   51.9          Total Outstanding & Diebureed
Petroleum Exports 
I ATE OF EXCUACE                                                                   IDA LEDING. MkRCH 31. 1985 (USSnin.)
Annual              Rnd                                                                tDA
Averagoe            PcrSod                            Outstanding * Dlsbursed          142.3
1974-end Aus. 1983      Feb. 1985                          UndLabursed                      104.9
Outteanding including
V5s 1.00 - RvF               92.84                106.5                              Utidiabursed                  247.2
Rvr 1.00 - US$                0.011                0.009
kw? 1.00 - SOR                                     0.010
SIL 1.00 - Wr                  ..                 102.71
I/ Includes Honey and Quasi omeys
21 Prowisional
Ti Debt Service not of Interest earned on foreign exchanga reserwes
ae a percentage of Exports of Ceods and Nwan-Fctor Services.
A1 Crud- Derivatveso
.- not available
*not appl1cable



- 24 -
Peg. I of 2
7EE STATtU OF BAI    P 0PBOPAT1M  IN RWANDA
A. Statt of MA, Cradits
(as of September 30, 1985)
Amount UlS$ mllUm
cedit No.    Fiscal Year   Borrmr                   Purpwe                  (im  ca        aa)
MA, Eblsbwrsed
(Ten credits bve bee fuly disuwaed)ll                                        77.49
937    2/ 3/  1979         Rha         lti    Ariculwm:l & LiveaMck
DeveloPmenz                         8.75      2.65
103-N         1980             "tated Forestry & Livestodc
DE:eopat                           21.00     2.64
1057-W         1981                     T3ecanoicati                          7.50     5.27
1126-I         1981            "afSe/Foodrope                                15.00     5.75
1217-W         1982                     T Tacbcal Assistaz                    5.00     3.54
1250-Nw        1982                     Fif th Hilgay                        25.90    12.45
1263-W         1982                     Secud Fdu)caton                      10.00     8.65
1283-          1982                     Pne I                                16.30     7.91
1344-W         1983                     Bo m                                  7.00     4.18
134-5-N        1983                     water Supply                         13.0D     6.24
142D-W         l984          R,zizi ItI& ]ctric                              15.00    11.64
1495-N         1984                     P                                     9.00     8.48
1546-J 4/      1985            -Agricual Fasearch                            11.50    11.50
1565-w 4/      1985                     T cbaLcal Asds      II                4.80     4.80
Total                         247.24    95.70
of bihch bs be1nreid               1.33
Totalw outstauitwg            245.91
hzDuzt sold          3.40
of wihih has bem repaid  3.40
rotal nm held by IDA          245.91
Total unUsbursed                        95.70
1/ Rwanda 1o rcived no Bait lon.
7     Tt credit ms couieented by an EBC SpedLal Action Crdt of US$1.7 ndl lco.
3   nix   a NmAD GLit   tcipatom of 4.4 mnllim.
_ Not yet effective.



- 25 -
Pap 2 of 2
B. Statement of WC Ivestmats ln Rwanda
(as of hAgut 31, 1985)
tMidI1ion
IFC's existivg inves      In Rwanda cmpdise the bo iavestmes p iously umade in
Sorwadf and its predecaso compnLes, SIRI and SINE. Itails are as follow.
zs looo
Total
Iuzve t   Fiscal                  Type of                             Hde  by
Nuaber      Year    Obgsless   At    I                     Total      JFC   Uodisblrsed
337-ill       1975      Sozathi)TIsa proms-  -        0.54   0.54       0.24
IrE andi
470-1         1979      Sorwathn)            0.06 aL 0.23   0.29        0.13
764-W         1984      Sorwatbn)              -      0.25   025         -       0.25
Total                          0.06     1.02   1.08       0.37    0.25
aJ Caiced In 7/84.



- 26 -
A=nex III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a)       Identification                : February 1984
(b)       Preparation                   : June 1984, with UNESCO
(c)       Appraisal                     : March 1985
(d)       Negotiations                  : March 1986
(e)       Planned Date for
Credit Effectiveness        : August 1986
Section II:   Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
- An evaluation of progress in achieving an agreed action program for
improvement of education quality and cost-effectiveness would be
provided for Bank Group staff review by not later than July 31 of each
year (para 34);
Section IV: Special Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
- Provision by UNDP of a signed project document under which technical
assistance required for the NVTC would be furnished (para. 52);
- An architectural firm acceptable to the Association would be selected
to prepare designs for construction of the NVTC (para. 55); and
- Establishment of the Project Advance Account in the NBR with an
initial deposit of RwF 500,000 (para. 60).
Section V:  Special Condition of Disbursement
- For the civil works element of the Kibuye TSS, Government would
provide for IDA review and comment satisfactory proposals to introduce
improved procedures (including improved selection procedures) to ensure
internal efficiency in this school (para 45).



- 27 -
Annex IV
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS ARE SUMMARIZED BELOW:
US$ Million
Project Element                           ICB       LCB        OTHER      TOTAL
COST
1.  Civil Works                             8.0       0.9         -           8.9
(6.9)     (0.8)                   (7.7)
2.  Furniture/Equipment/Vehicles            3.8       0.5         -           4.3
(3.4)     (0.4)                   (3.8)
3.  Paper and Printing Materials            1.0       0.2         -           1.2
(0.9)     (0.1)       -           (1.0)
4.  Technical Assistance/Training           -         -           4.0         4.0
(2.7)       (2.7)
5.  Professional Services (A/E)             -         -           0.3         0.3
(0.2)       (0.2)
6.  Project Administration                  -         -           0.3         0.3
-         -         (0.2)        (0.2)
TOTAL                                  12.8       1.6         4.6        19.0
(11.2)     (1.3)      (3.1)       (15.6)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the
Association.



IBR0 19109
RWANDA(
- ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~         ~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ G  A N D Ai/                                                                           -
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                                                 U G A N D A
PA~~~~flROZ~~~~~~Z                                      ,                                     / ~~~~TANZANIA
o OIEGH^ ^vSZZIS j 
OD  aGESAR>10WllS                 ~~~ZAIRE        )        f       <t           i                  f                               f  
>   / *  <  t  S     t    '   t    t ,u.  t    g t                   t           2         s ^ K ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ G E RA^ 
J      i -       >      <      1                                    >                         N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A T I 0A"  L  
R   .  | }1    o S7B  \                         B U R
R\\   jU R U ND                                                                                               D - 
t  B U R U N D I  /  <               /        <            '                     ---                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGLE IwM



