Page  1
P
ROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report Number:  AB2545 
Project Name 
Uganda Power Sector Development Operation 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Power (100%) 
Project ID 
P069208 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA 
Implementing Agency: 
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development 
Amber House, P.O. Box 7270 
Kampala Road 
Uganda 
Tel: 256-41-233331 
Fax: 256-41-230220 
UETCL 
Amber House Plot No. 29/33 
Kampala Road 
P.O Box 7625 
Kampala-Uganda 
Telephone 041-233433/4  
Fax: 256-41-341789  
Email: 
transco@uetcl.com
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
March 27,2007 
Date of Appraisal Authorization 
March 14, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
April 26, 2007 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
Uganda’s economy has performed well during the last two decades, signified by a stable macroeconomic 
environment and sustained growth in per capita incomes averaging 3.2 percent per annum. Agriculture 
has been a key driving factor.  In order  to build on this growth trend, and to absorb an ever-increasing 
work force, the Government is pushing to expand off-farm employment.  Agro-processing and other such 
growth-oriented industries require a sound infrastructure base, including affordable and reliable electricity 
supply.  Uganda’s current very low rate of electrification (5 percent) compels an urgent emphasis on 
significant investments in the sector both for expanding access and power supply.  The Government has 
adopted a sector structure which features commercially oriented service provision, and emphasizes 
private sector investment that leverages public resources. The former Uganda Electricity Board has been 
unbundled, and the generation and distribution components have been privatized. The sector is overseen 
by the Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERA), which has established a sound track record of regulatory 
supervision. A Rural Electrification Agency has been established with a mandate to extend service to 
rural and other unserved areas.  Uganda’s well-developed sector structure, sound regulatory institution 
and process, and openness to private sector participation are unique in the sub-Saharan context. 
 
Notwithstanding the country’s commendable progress on reforms and private investment, Uganda has 
suffered chronic power shortages over the past three years.  The power crisis has slowed industrial 
production
1
The key factor underlying the crisis is the lack of sufficient generation capacity.  The failure 
of the Bujagali hydropower plant to reach financial closure in 2003 and its subsequent abandonment by 
the private sector sponsor is a major cause of this shortage. The situation has been exacerbated by 
prolonged drought in the region, reducing the power that can be generated from the existing hydropower 
1
Competing in the Global Economy: An Investment Climate Assessment for Uganda
,
World Bank, 2004. 
Page  2
facilities. Sustained high oil prices and the logistical challenge and costs of transporting fuel for power 
generation into this land-locked country have made thermal generation a prohibitively expensive 
alternative.  As demand continues to grow rapidly, even the significant addition of short-term thermal 
generation capacity in 2005/06, the system is still unable to meet about 15-40% of its load, depending 
upon the time of the day.  
The power supply situation and the accompanying financial crisis have affected growth and could now 
undermine the power sector reforms and advances achieved in Uganda’s power sector. Most importantly, 
the fragile situation of the sector now threatens to reverse the gains made in securing private participation 
and future prospects for investment in the new Bujagali hydropower project.  The Bujagali project is now 
being prepared a second time with private sponsorship, commercial financing and broad-based support 
from donors, including the World Bank Group.  If successful, the project is expected to be commissioned 
in 2011. 
 
The power shortages have also led to lower retail electricity sales and revenues, which, in turn, have 
reduced the financial viability of the private distribution concessionaire, UMEME. When the company 
took over the distribution concession in March 2005, the energy supply available to UMEME was 1,900 
GWh, while it is now less 1,500 GWh. This reduction is affecting UMEME’s ability to recover its fixed 
costs over fewer units of energy supplies.  This situation has been exacerbated by high cost thermal 
generation, which has increased the retail tariff without increasing UMEME’s net revenue. The 
Government of Uganda (GOU) restructured the distribution concession in December 2006 to compensate 
UMEME, but this has meant a drain on  GOU’s budget. If not addressed, the sector’s vulnerable situation 
could therefore impact the sustainability of the UMEME concession. 
 
The need for tariff increases to service the high costs of short term thermal generation has been addressed. 
ERA effected a 37.5% percent increase in tariffs in June 2006, followed by a further increase of 42% in 
November 2006. The average end-user tariff is now US¢ 17.7/kWh (excluding VAT), which is high by 
regional and international standards.  The life-line tariff rate for consumers using less than 15kWh per 
month has, however, remained steady, providing adequate protection for the poor.  The tariff increase 
process has been well managed, both by the government and the regulator.  Wide spread consultations 
with stakeholders and political leadership in orchestrating support for the increases have been remarkable.  
Continued power shortages and a weak sector situation could however reverse this public confidence and 
support, and pose risks to maintaining the reforms and regulatory framework already in place.  
 
Despite the difficult challenges the Government has therefore taken very responsible measures - installing 
short-term generation capacity of 100 MW, allowing the ERA the autonomy needed to raise tariffs in a 
pragmatic manner, while recognizing the affordability issue, and continuing on a course of pursuing 
private sector participation and investments. 
 
The new Bujagali project will be the medium-term solution for the least cost power supply for Uganda 
once it is commissioned in 2011. The current tariffs are already at a level sufficient for full cost-recovery 
post-Bujagali.  Therefore, in the period leading up to 2011, the sector would need the Government’s 
support, both to sustain the policy and institutional structure and from a financial standpoint.  This project 
intends to provide both forms of support during this fragile period.  The DPL component supports the 
Government in consolidating and advancing sector reform while meeting some of the remaining financing 
gaps. The SIL component supports specific capacity addition to maintain supply. 
 
2. Objectives 
The primary objectives of the Operation are to reduce short-term power shortages and financial 
imbalances, and facilitate orderly longer-term expansion of electricity service. 
Page  3
In order to achieve these objectives, the Operation comprises: (a) a set of investments and policy 
measures designed to reduce the supply-demand gap until the Bujagali hydropower plant comes into 
service in 2011; (b) financial support for the Government to absorb a part of the high costs of short-term 
thermal power generation; and (c) policy measures aimed at making the sector financially viable, 
accelerating rural electrification, and moving towards a sector-wide approach for development. 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The Bank is a long-
standing and deeply involved partner in development of Uganda’s energy sector, 
maintaining a rich dialogue covering power generation, transmission and distribution; rural access to 
electricity; energy efficiency; traditional fuels; and the petroleum sector. Government continues to seek 
Bank advice and support in this area, and it is important to remain strongly engaged, especially during the 
critical period before commissioning of the Bujagali plant. This engagement is fully consistent with the 
UJAS, which identifies the Bank as the lead donor in the Ugandan power sector. Of particular relevance 
for this Operation is the fact that the Bank is the only donor currently in a position to provide the 
magnitude of support required by Uganda’s power sector. 
The Operation builds on and supports the results of former and ongoing Bank projects in Uganda’s power 
sector:  
·
ERT Project.
 
The Policy Support Program initiates a comprehensive review of the rural 
electrification framework and the functioning of related institutions that would allow GOU to 
improve the framework in anticipation of ERT Phase 2.  
·
Privatization and Utility Sector Reform Project.
 UMEME, which is supported with a PRG under 
this project, has as its main task under the concession to improve and expand the national 
electricity distribution network and customer base. The expansion of the customer base strongly 
depends on the availability of enough power supply for sale. The proposed Project supports a new 
short-term thermal generation facility that will enable UETCL to provide more power to the 
distribution company.  
·
Finally, this Operation reinforces the Bank Group supported Private Hydropower Generation 
Project (Bujagli) that is being submitted to the Board in parallel with this Operation. It does so by 
supporting GOU’s measures to stabilize and reinforce the power sector in the short term by 
providing financial resources, and supporting measures to maintain and strengthen the sector’s 
reform achievements. 
4. Financing 
Source: (US$million)
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
300 
SWEDEN: SWEDISH INTL. DEV. COOPERATION AGENCY (SIDA) 
6.5 
 Total 
306.5 
 
5. Implementation 
Policy Support Program 
MEMD will be responsible for implementing the policy component, including all necessary coordination 
with other agencies.  
Project 
UETCL will implement Component 1 (thermal power generation) in its entirety. UETCL’s existing 
structure already includes a Thermal Power Project Manager, who will be responsible for leading the 
procurement process, with participation from MEMD and ERA. UETCL also will be responsible for the 
Page  4
regional transmission integration study under Component 2. This will be led by UETCL’s Planning unit, 
which is tasked with both domestic and regional transmission planning.  
In keeping with its mandate and ongoing work, MEMD will implement the Energy Efficiency and 
Demand Side Management elements of Component 2. This work will be undertaken under the direction 
of the existing Assistant Commissioner for Energy Efficiency. MEMD will also be responsible for the 
independent evaluation of the rural electrification framework; PSIA; Kalagala Offset Development Plan; 
and Communications Strategy.   
Procurement activities will be carried out by mainstream UETCL and MEMD staff, whose procurement 
skills are rated satisfactory. As both MEMD and UETCL are in compliance with the procurement law, the 
organization of their procurement units, internal technical and administrative controls, anti-corruption 
measures, and their appeal mechanisms for bidders are all rated satisfactory. (See Annex 8 for the project 
procurement assessment.) 
Similarly, transactions will be managed by mainstream UETCL and MEMD financial management staff. 
The Project Accountants of the respective agencies will be responsible for maintaining the books of 
accounts and records of work under the project, and also will ensure that audits are undertaken and 
reported as required. See Annex 7 for the project financial management assessment. 
6. Sustainability 
The Operation is expressly aimed to promote financial sustainability of the sector in the critical period up 
to commissioning of the Bujagali plant. On the cost side, the sector faces high costs as it is compelled to 
rely more heavily on thermal generation. On the revenue side is the reduced affordability of electricity for 
ratepayers, and the limited ability of Government to assign scarce budgetary resources to the recurrent 
costs of the power sector. The Operation is designed to provide the financing necessary to even out this 
difficult balance, providing a sustainability bridge to the time of commissioning of the Bujagali plant, 
which should permit the retirement of the thermal plants and a return to a more sustainable sector 
financial structure thermal plants and a return to more affordable and therefore more sustainable sector 
financial structure. 
7. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
For the Policy Support Program, the main lessons learned are: 
·
The commitment of the ministry dealing with power sector reforms is very important, along with 
other involved agencies such as the Ministry of Finance. In that respect, this Operation also builds 
directly on the lessons learned from the previous and completed Power III Project (Credit 2268), 
which underlined the importance of “
Government ownership of its power sector reform program 
is a critical underpinning to ensure its successful and timely implementation.” 
Through the 
instrument of a DPL component, this Program creates incentives for GOU to continue with its 
successful sector reform by keeping the ownership of the reform with GOU. 
·
The Bank Group should have a clear and consistent articulation of its approach towards reforms 
in a situation where it is supporting a number of projects in the sector.  
·
Techno-economic considerations, such as the conclusions of a least cost expansion plan, should 
be given due weight, and not be overshadowed by political considerations in the choice of major 
sector investments. 
For the investment Project, one important lesson is the need to tackle power shortages from both supply 
and demand standpoints, which is the approach adopted by this Operation. Supply initiatives should 
include the installation of new capacity, provision of fuel, and funding for purchase of energy from 
imports or from new plants. Demand side initiatives include improving energy efficiency at the user end, 
fostering conservation, and developing sensible power rationing schemes.  
Page  5
The Project also builds on the lessons learned from the previous and completed Power III Project (Credit 
2268) which concluded that “
it is more efficient to initiate and implement measures to improve 
institutional and financial performance in advance of major new investments.
”
Through the ongoing 
Power IV (Credit 3545) and Privatization Utility Sector Reform (Credit 3411) projects, IDA has 
supported GOU in the unbundling of the sector and the strengthening of its newly created institutions. 
This investment Project will thus be implemented following improvement of the sector and its institutions 
through the other ongoing projects. 
8. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
9. 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
·
Uganda – Thermal Power Generation Project: Environmental Assessment (Vol. 1 Of 7): 
Mutundwe Thermal Power Plant (English). March 1, 2006. 
·
Uganda - Thermal Power Generation Project:  Mutundwe Resettlement Plan (English). July 1, 
2006. 
·
MEMD and The Energy and Resources Institute. Hima Kiln Section Comprehensive Energy 
Audit Report. July 2003. 
·
MEMD. Century Bottling Company, Ltd. Namanve Plant – Energy Audit Report. April 2006. 
·
MEMD and The Energy and Resources Institute. Nile Breweries Refrigeration Comprehensive 
Energy Audit Report. July 2003. 
·
MEMD. “Report on the Energy Efficiency Week June 6-10, 2006. Theme – Be Smart, Save 
Energy”. June 2006. 
·
Uganda - Thermal Generation Project - Regional component - Lake Victoria Hydrologic and 
Economic Analysis, Patrick Doyle.  
·
Financial Management Assessment Report, The World Bank Group, August 7, 2006. 
10. Contact 
Point 
Contact: Malcolm Cosgrove-Davies 
Title: Sr. Energy Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-3121 
Fax: (202) 473-5123 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  6
Email: mcosgrove-davies@worldbank.org 
 
11. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
