Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4297-UG 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Power Sector Development Operation) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 28, 2007 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4297-UG 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated May 28, 2007, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
UGANDA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) relating to financing: (a) to assist in the carrying out of the Project (as defined 
in the Appendix to this Agreement), and (b) in support of the Program (as defined in the 
appendix to this Agreement) made on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient 
has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework.  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to 
this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in two portions as follows: 
(a) 
an amount equivalent to fifty three million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 53,300,000) (the Policy Support Portion); and 
(b) 
an amount equivalent to one hundred and forty six million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 146,600,000) (the Project Portion); (the 
Policy Support Portion and the Project Portion referred to collectively variously 
as, “Credit”, and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section II of Schedule 2 and Section IV of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
 
2.03.  The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
Page  3
2
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
Program; Project
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the Program.  
To this end: 
(a) 
the Recipient shall carry out Part 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.6 and 2.7 of the Project, 
and cause Parts 1 and 2.5 of the Project to be carried out by UETCL in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and the 
Project Agreement; 
(b) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
(c) 
prior to each such exchange of views referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall furnish to the Association for its review and 
comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and 
(d) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed 
action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action 
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement and except 
as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall ensure 
that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out; and 
(b) 
UETCL’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, and status of its 
incorporation pursuant to the Companies Act of the Recipient, have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of UETCL to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness shall be that the Subsidiary Agreement has 
been executed on behalf of the Recipient and the UETCL. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter shall be that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Recipient and UETCL and is legally binding upon the 
Recipient and UETCL in accordance with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is 20 years after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  5
4
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance, Planning  
and Economic Development 
Plot # 2 – 12, Apollo Kagwa Road 
P.O. Box 8147 
Kampala, Uganda 
Cable: 
  Fascimile: 
FINSEC 
 
256 41 230163 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  6
5
AGREED at Kampala, the Republic of Uganda, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
By: 
     /s/ 
Ezra 
Suruma 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
      /s/ Grace M. Yabrudy 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to 
support the Recipient’s efforts to reduce short-term 
power shortage, improve the financing of its power sector, and facilitate longer-term sustained 
power sector expansion.  
The Project consists of the following Parts: 
Part 1
Thermal Energy
Supporting capacity for generation of additional power to alleviate shortages in the 
short term, including facilitating UETCL to purchase thermal power produced by a 50 MW 
thermal power generation plant at 
Mutundwe
,
in the territory of the Recipient.  
Part 2
Energy Efficiency and Demand Side Management
1. 
Supporting MEMD in expanding a framework for a large scale program for energy 
efficiency and demand side management work, including, providing relevant training to develop 
the capacity of MEMD staff, and corresponding staff of identified relevant public and private 
entities, for energy efficiency and demand side management, providing logistic support to 
monitor ongoing initiatives, and implementation of communication and education campaigns.  
2. 
Carrying out an independent evaluation of the rural electrification program.  
3. 
Carrying out a poverty and social impact analysis, including examination of the 
distributional impact of power sector policy reforms.  
4. 
Supporting MEMD to develop a power sector investment plan.  
5. 
Carrying out a pre-feasibility and feasibility study for 
Masaka-Mutukula-Mwanza
 line 
and a proposed Lake Victoria Transmission Ring, as part of the interconnection infrastructure of 
power systems for the Recipient, Republic of Kenya and the United Republic of Tanzania, and 
for East Africa regional power transmission integration under a proposed regional power master 
plan. 
6. 
Supporting a development plan, including revision of an existing development plan to 
institute mitigation measures at the 
Kalagala
 site on the River Nile, below 
Bujagali
 Falls to 
offset the loss of 
Bujagali
 Falls upon the construction of a proposed dam. 
Page  8
7
7. 
Supporting implementation of the energy sector communication strategy, including 
dissemination of key sector strategies and initiatives to the public. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Recipient has in accordance with paragraph 16 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, prepared a draft Energy Efficiency Strategy and Plan, in a form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association  
2. 
The Recipient has in accordance with paragraph 7 of the Letter of Power Sector Policy: 
(a) effected power tariff adjustments to ensure that there is adequate revenue to meet the 
power sector revenue requirement, taking into account all sources of such revenue, and 
to cover part of the high cost of thermal power; and (b) paid all its arrears that are due 
to UETCL.  
3. 
The Recipient has in accordance with paragraphs 10, 20, 21, and 22 of the Letter of 
Power Sector Policy, completed the following specific power sector development 
measures:  
(a) 
confirmed to the Association, its commitment to conduct an independent 
evaluation of the rural electrification framework and institutions, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association;  
(b) 
confirmed to the Association, its commitment to monitor, on a daily basis the 
abstraction of water from the Lake Victoria for power generation, including the 
amounts allowed under the Agreed Curve, and to submit a monthly report to the 
East African Community showing a comparison of actual abstraction to that 
allowed under the Agreed Curve; 
(c) 
confirmed to the Association, its continued participation in the Lake Victoria 
watershed management plans discussions alongside the other riparian countries; 
and 
(d) 
established a joint energy sector working group among its government, relevant 
private sector and civil society agencies, and the development partners that 
have indicated support to the energy sector, with a mandate and terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association. 
Page  10
9
Section II. 
Availability of Policy Support Portion of the Financing 
A. General. 
The Recipient may withdraw the Policy Support Portion of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the 
Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.
 
B. 
Allocation of the Financing Amounts.
 The Policy Support Portion of the Financing 
shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing 
to this end is set out in the table below:  
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
53,300,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
53,300,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:  
(a) 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account for the Policy Support Portion, 
shall be deposited by the Association into an account designated by the 
Recipient and acceptable to the Association; and 
(b) 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s 
budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at 
any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to 
the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
Page  11
10
SCHEDULE 3 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out of UETCL
’s respective Parts 1 and 2.5 of the Project, the
 
Recipient shall make part of the Project Portion of the Financing available to UETCL 
under a subsidiary agreement between the Recipient and UETCL, under terms and 
conditions approved by the Association, which shall include the obligations of UETCL 
to:  
(a) 
carry out Parts 1 and 2.5 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and 
environmental practices and in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Plan, and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the facilities, 
services and other resources required for Parts 1 and 2.5 of the Project; 
(b) 
comply with the procedures for procurement of goods, and consultant services 
set forth in  the Procurement Plan; 
(c) 
comply with record keeping, auditing and reporting requirements set forth in 
Section II(B) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, including the annual 
auditing of its records and accounts in respect of the Parts 1 and 2.5 of the 
Project (operations, resources and expenditure in respect of the Project); 
(d) 
at the request of the Recipient or the Association, exchange views with the 
Recipient and the Association with regard to the progress of Parts 1 and 2.5 of 
the Project and the performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement; and  
(e) 
promptly inform the Recipient and the Association of any conditions which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts 1 and 2.5 of the 
Project, or the performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any 
of its provisions. 
Page  12
11
B. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
1. 
UETCL and MEMD.
 
The Recipient shall maintain, at all times until the completion 
of the Project: (a) UETCL for Parts 1 and 2.5 of the Project in accordance with the 
Project Agreement; and (b) and MEMD with staffing and resources satisfactory to the 
Association, for Part 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.6 and 2.7 of the Project. 
2. 
Implementing Agencies
 
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Part B.1 of this Section, the Recipient 
shall ensure full participation of MEMD in all procurement under Part 1 of the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph: (i) UETCL Project 
Manager shall be responsible for the overall planning, coordination, 
procurement and monitoring performance of power suppliers under Part 1 of 
the Project, pursuant to the Power Purchase Agreements. 
3. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall cause UETCL to carry out Part 1 of the Project in 
accordance with the environmental, social and resettlement guidelines, rules 
and procedures defined in the Environmental Impact Assessment Report, and 
the Resettlement Action Plan. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall not amend or waive, or permit to be waived, the 
Environmental Impact Assessment Report, and the Resettlement Action Plan, 
or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, 
may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall ensure that: (i) all measures for carrying out the 
recommendations of the Environmental Impact Assessment Report, and the 
Resettlement Action Plan are taken in a timely manner; and (ii) the Project 
Reports referred to in Part A of Section II of this Schedule shall include 
adequate information on monitoring the measures defined in the Environmental 
Impact Assessment Report, and the Resettlement Action Plan. 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
Page  13
12
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall in respect of Part 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.6 and 2.7 of the Project, 
monitor and evaluate the progress and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in paragraph 2.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
six months, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than one month after the 
end of the period covered by such report. 
2. 
The performance indicators referred to above in paragraph 1 consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
level of energy shortages; 
 
(b) 
financial viability of key sectoral utilities; and 
 
(c) 
quality of functioning of the energy sector working group. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall in respect of Part 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.6, and 2.7 of the Project, 
maintain, or cause to be maintained a financial management system in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A.1 of this Section, the Recipient shall in 
respect of Part 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.6 and 2.7, prepare and furnish to the Association not 
later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six months after the end of such period. 
Page  14
13
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and 
with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following methods of 
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for goods and 
works under the circumstances specified in the Procurement Plan for each such method: 
(a) National Competitive Bidding; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following methods of 
procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for 
consultants’ services under the circumstances specified in the Procurement Plan for 
each such method: (a) Quality Based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; 
(c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications; (e) Single-
source Selection; and (f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants. 
Page  15
14
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for works
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (b) each 
contract or goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; (c) each 
contract for goods or works procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; and (d) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more. 
2. 
In addition, the following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants (other than consultants to be selected on a sole 
source basis) estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more: (i) the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
conditions of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Association’s 
approval shall have been given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract.  The following 
prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis: (i) the qualifications, experience, terms 
of reference and conditions of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only 
after the Association’s approval shall have been given; and (iii) the provisions of 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
3. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Project Portion of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the Project Portion of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Association and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to 
such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the Project Portion of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  16
15
Category 
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (expressed 
in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1) Goods, works and 
consultants’ 
services for Part 
2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 
2.6 and 2.7 of the 
Project 
 7, 
030,000 
100% 
(2) Goods, works and 
consultants’ 
services for Parts 1 
and 2.5 of the 
Project 
 139,160,000 
100% 
(3) Training and 
Workshops for 
Part 1 of the 
Project 
 140,000 
100% 
(4) Operating Costs 
 
270,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 146,600,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be made 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
2.
 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2011. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings under the Project
A. 
Appointment of Financial and Procurement Auditors 
1. 
The Recipient shall in respect of Part 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.6 and 2.7 of the Project, not 
later than six months after the Effective Date, appoint the independent auditors referred 
to in Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of this Schedule. 
2. 
The Recipient shall, not later than six months after the Effective Date, put in place 
arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, including the appointment of independent 
procurement auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with the provisions 
of Section III of this Schedule, for reviewing the procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services financed under Part 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.6 and 2.7 of the Project, 
including the reviewing of procurement procedures and processes. 
Page  17
16
B.
 
Procurement Audits
 
The Recipient shall, not later than six months after the end of each Fiscal Year, or such 
later date as the Association may agree, furnish to the Association an audit report on the 
procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services carried out under Part 2.1, 2.2, 
2.3, 2.4, 2.6 and 2.7 of the Project, prepared by the independent procurement auditors 
referred to in Part A.2 of this Section. 
C.
 
Decommissioning of the thermal power stations
 
The Recipient shall, prior to decommissioning of any thermal power station, consult 
with the Association.  To this end, the Recipient shall take into account the 
Association’s views on a proposed decommissioning of a thermal power station.  
Page  18
17
SCHEDULE 4 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
commencing June 15, 2017 to and including 
December 15, 2026 
1% 
commencing June 15, 2027 to and including 
December 15, 2046 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  19
18
APPENDIX 
Section I: 
Definitions 
1. 
“Affected Persons” means the persons who, on account of the expansion of thermal 
power infrastructure at the 
Mutundwe
 site for execution of Part 1 of the Project had or 
would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title, interest in 
any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or 
movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to 
productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected. 
2. 
“Agreed Curve” means a curve established pursuant to Agreements under Exchange of 
Notes dated May 30, 1949, December 5, 1949, and January 5, 1953, between the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of Egypt, 
regarding the construction of the Owen Falls Dam in the territory of the Recipient, and 
governing water releases from the Lake Victoria. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the tables in Section II of Schedule 2, and 
Section IV of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 (revised in 
October 2006). 
6. 
“East African Community” means a regional organization established and operating 
under the Treaty for the Establishment of the East African Community dated 
November 30, 1999. 
7. 
“Energy Efficiency Strategy and Plan” means the Recipient’s plan referred to in 
Part 2.1 of the Project, and setting forth the strategy and plan for improving efficient 
utilization of energy. 
8. 
“Environmental Impact Assessment Report” means the Environmental Impact 
Assessment Report for 
Mutundwe
 plant site dated March 2006
,
describing the set of 
mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken during 
implementation of Part 1 of the Project to mitigate adverse environmental and social 
impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or to enhance positive 
impacts; as the said report may be amended and/or supplemented from time to time 
with the prior concurrence of the Association. 
Page  20
19
9. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure relating to the Policy Support Portion 
of the Financing: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank 
has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 728.43 
Tobacco 
processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
Page  21
20
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to 
which the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
10. 
“General Conditions” for the purpose of the Project means the “International 
Development Association General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated 
July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006); and for the purpose of the 
Program, the term “General Conditions” means such General Conditions with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
11. 
“MEMD” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development. 
12. 
“MW” means Mega Watt (one million watts). 
13. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs incurred on account of the 
implementation of the Project including maintenance of vehicles, fuel, equipment, 
office supplies, utilities, consumables, bank charges, advertising expenses, travel per 
diems, allowances and accommodation, but excluding salaries of the Recipient’s civil 
servants. 
14. 
“Project Manager” means UETCL project manager referred to in paragraph 1 of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 (revised in October 2006). 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
March 15, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
17. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and financial stability of the power sector, and achieve sustainable reductions in 
Page  22
21
poverty, and set forth or referred to in the letter dated March 20, 2007, from the 
Recipient to the Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of 
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during its execution.  
18. 
“UETCL” means Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited, the 
implementing entity for Parts 1 and 2.5 of the Project, a body corporate established and 
operating pursuant to Companies Act (Cap 10) of the laws of the Recipient.  
19. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means the Resettlement Action Plan for 
Mutundwe
 site 
dated November 2006, setting forth the guidelines for compensation of the Affected 
Persons, and referred to in Section I.B.3 (a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
20. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the proceeds of the 
Financing available to UETCL. 
21. 
“Training and Workshops” means costs associated with the training of MEMD 
personnel involved in implementation of activities, and communication and creation 
awareness activities supported under Part 1 of the Project, including study tours, travel 
and subsistence costs for training participants, costs associated with securing the 
services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training 
materials, and other costs directly related to course preparation and implementation. 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions in respect of the Program 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions 
for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows: 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. Sections 
2.04 
(
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are 
deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are 
renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
Page  23
22
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its 
entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
expenditures under the Financing until two years after the 
Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the Association’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six months after 
the Closing Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified 
to read as follows: 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing 
is put in support of the Program, other than to finance 
expenditures excluded pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth 
in the Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
Page  24
23
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing 
Agreement in support of which the Financing is made.”  All 
references to “Project” throughout these General Conditions 
are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
