Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4297-UG 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Power Sector Development Operation) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
UGANDA ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION COMPANY LIMITED 
 
Dated May 28, 2007  
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4297-UG 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 28, 2007, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and UGANDA ELECTRICITY 
TRANSMISSION COMPANY LIMITED (“UETCL”) (“Project Agreement”) in connection 
with the Financing Agreement of same date between the REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
(“Recipient”) and the Association (“Financing Agreement”).  The Association and the Project 
Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or the 
General Conditions. 
ARTICLE II — PROJECT
 
2.01. 
UETCL declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
UETCL shall carry out Parts 1 and 2.5 of the Project in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions, and shall provide promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for implementation of Parts 1 and 
2.5 of the Project. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, UETCL 
shall carry out Parts 1 and 2.5 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Schedule to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III — TERMINATION 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is 20 years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE IV 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
4.01. 
UETCL’s Representative is its Managing Director. 
4.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Association for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INTBAFRAD 
 248423(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited 
 
Amber House 
 
Plot 29/33 Kampala Road 
 
PO Box 7625 
 
Kampala, Uganda 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(256) 41 341789  
Page  4
3
AGREED at Kampala, the Republic of Uganda, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
 
        /s/ Grace M. Yabrudy 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
UGANDA ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION COMPANY LIMITED 
 
By: 
      /s/ 
Eriasi 
Kiyemba 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 
Execution of Parts 1 and 2.5 of the Project 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
1. 
UETCL shall, at all times during the period of the Project implementation maintain: 
(a) 
for the purpose of Parts 1 and 2.5 of the Project, a Project Manager with the 
responsibility for procurement and monitoring performance of power supplies 
under the Power Purchase Agreements. To this end, the Project Manager shall 
ensure participation of MEMD in all procurement activities under Parts 1 and 
2.5 of the Project; and  
(b) 
for the purpose of Part 2.5 of the Project, the planning unit with the 
responsibility for coordination of the regional power studies with related on-
going work. 
2.
 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
 
UETCL shall in accordance with Section I.B.3 of Schedule 3 to the Financing 
Agreement, ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
Environmental Impact Assessment Report and Resettlement Action Plan, and in a 
manner and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
UETCL shall ensure that Parts 1 and 2.5 of the Project are carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
UETCL shall monitor and evaluate the progress of  Parts 1 and 2.5 of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.08 (b) of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators set 
forth below in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each such Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar year, and shall be furnished to the 
Recipient not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such 
Page  6
5
report for incorporation and forwarding by the Recipient to the Association of 
the overall Project Report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) consist of the 
indicators referred to in Section II. A.1 of Schedule 3 to the Financing 
Agreement. 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports; Audits 
1. 
UETCL shall maintain a financial management system and prepare financial statements 
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition 
of UETCL, including the operations, resources and expenditures related to Parts 1 and 
2.5 of the Project. 
2. 
UETCL shall have its financial statements referred to above audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association.  Each audit of these financial statements shall 
cover the period of one fiscal year of UETCL.  The audited financial statements for 
each period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end 
of the period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for Parts 1 and 2.5 of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Financing Agreement. 
Section IV. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
Additional Financial and Reporting Covenants
 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the net revenues of UETCL for any 
fiscal year shall be at least equal to the sum of its debt service requirements, working 
capital requirements, dividends (if any), and a proportion of investments that require 
funding from UETCL’s internal resources.  To this end, UETCL shall not incur any 
debt, unless the net revenues of UETCL for the fiscal year immediately preceding the 
date of such incurrence or a later twelve-month period ending prior to the date of such 
incurrence, whichever is greater, shall be at least 1.0 times the estimated maximum debt 
service requirements of UETCL for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of UETCL, 
including the debt to be incurred. 
For the purposes of this Section: 
Page  7
6
(a) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of UETCL maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred. 
(b) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the 
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into. 
(c) 
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
(i) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to take account of UETCL’s rates in effect at the time 
of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect 
during the twelve-month period to which such revenues related 
and net non-operating income; and 
(ii) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and other charges on 
debt. 
(d) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between: 
(i) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(ii) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(e) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayment (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges on, debt. 
(f) 
Whenever, for the purposes of this paragraph, it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Recipient, debt payable in another 
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, 
in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Association. 
Page  8
7
2. 
UETCL shall in respect of Parts 1 and 2.5 of the Project, not later than six months after 
the Effective Date, appoint the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.09 (b) of 
the General Conditions, in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this 
Schedule. 
B. 
Additional Procurement Covenants
 
1. 
UETCL shall, not later than six months after the Effective Date, put in place 
arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, including the appointment of independent 
procurement auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with the provisions 
of Section III of this Schedule, for reviewing the procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services financed under Parts 1 and 2.5 of the Project, including the 
reviewing of procurement procedures and processes. 
2. 
UETCL shall, not later than six months after the end of each Fiscal Year, or such later 
date as the Association may agree, furnish to the Recipient and the Association an audit 
report on the procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services carried out under 
Parts 1 and 2.5 of the Project, prepared by the independent procurement auditors 
referred to in Section IV.B.1 of this Schedule.
 
