                     Document of
                 The World Bank




                                               Report No: ICR2159



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (IDA-42970)



                       ON A

                      CREDIT

      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR199.9 MILLION
         (US$ 300 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                      TO THE

             REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                       FOR A

    POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT OPERATION



                   March 31, 2012


                 Africa Energy Group
         Sustainable Development Department
           Eastern Africa Country Cluster II
                     Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective March 25, 2012)
                    Currency Unit = Uganda Shilling
                           US$1 = USh 2,450
                      US$ 1.5325 = SDR 1

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 – December 31


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADF     Africa Development Fund
ADO     Automotive Diesel Oil
AfDB    African Development Bank
BOT     Build – Operate – Transfer
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CEDP    Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFL     Compact fluorescent light
CFR     Country Framework Report
CIFA    Country Integrated Fiduciary Assessment
CQS     Consultants Qualifications
DSM     Demand-side management
EA      Environmental Assessment
EAC     East African Community
EAPP    East Africa Power Pool
EE      Energy Efficiency
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
EIB     European Investment Bank
EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return
EOI     Expression of Interest
ERA     Electricity Regulatory Authority
ERT     Energy for Rural Transformation
ESIA    Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
ESMAP   Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
ESMF    Environmental and Social Management Framework
ESWG    Energy Sector Working Group
EU      European Union
FM      Financial Management
FMA     Financial Management Assessment
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GoU     Government of Uganda
GWh     Giga Watt hour

                                   i
HFO     Heavy fuel oil
IB      Incandescent bulb
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IC      Individual Consultants
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICT     Information, Communications, & Telecommunications
IDA     International Development Association
IFR     Interim Financial Reports
kV      Kilo Volt
kWh     Kilo Watt hour
LCS     Least-cost selection
LV      Low voltage
MOEMD   Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development
MOU     Memorandum of Understanding
MV      Medium voltage
MW      Megawatt
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NEMA    National Environmental Management Authority
PPA     Power Purchase Agreement
PPP     Public-Private Partnership
PRGF    Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSC    Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSG    Poverty Reduction Support Grant
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSDO    Power Sector Development Project
QCBS    Quality- and cost-based selection
SBD     Standard Bidding Documents
SIDA    Swedish International Development Agency
SPN     Specific Procurement Notices
ToR     Terms of Reference
UEDCL   Uganda Electricity Distribution Company Limited
UEGCL   Uganda Electricity Generation Company Limited
UETCL   Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited
UJAS    Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy
VAUE    Value of Avoided Unserved Energy
WBG     World Bank Group

                     Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                   Country Director: Philippe Dongier
                    Sector Manager: Lucio Monari
               Project Team Leader: Paul Baringanire
                  ICR Team Leader: Paul Baringanire




                                   ii
Contents
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and ThemeCodes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................... 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................... 16
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...................................................... 20
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................. 21
  6. Lessons Learned..................................................................................................... 23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........ 24
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 30
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 33
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 34
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR ......................................................................... 37
  Relevance of Policy ...................................................................................................... 37
  Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 39
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 40




                                                             iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                             Uganda Power Sector
Country:                Uganda                     Project Name:
                                                                             Development Project
Project ID:             P069208                    L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-42970,TF-57743
ICR Date:               03/31/2012                 ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                             GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                        Borrower:
                                                                             UGANDA
Original Total
                        XDR 199.90M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 199.83M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 199.90M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Energy & Mineral Development
 UETCL
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
      Process             Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:         06/14/2006    Effectiveness:               06/28/2007           06/28/2007
Appraisal:              03/14/2007    Restructuring(s):
Approval:               04/26/2007    Mid-term Review:             06/01/2009           05/10/2010
                                      Closing:                     07/31/2011           07/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       High
Bank Performance:                                  Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings               Borrower                      Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                 iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                  Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                             Quality at Entry
                             No                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                                  (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                           Quality of Supervision
                             Yes                                              None
(Yes/No):                                              (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                          Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                           2                       2
Energy efficiency in power sector                                           2                       2
Power                                                                      96                      96


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                      40                     40
Regional integration                                                        20                     20
Regulation and competition policy                                           20                     20
Rural services and infrastructure                                           20                     20

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                            At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:              Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili              Hartwig Schafer
Country Director:            Philippe Dongier                        Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:              Lucio Monari                            Subramaniam V. Iyer
Project Team Leader:         Paul Baringanire                        Malcolm Cosgrove-Davies
ICR Team Leader:             Paul Baringanire
ICR Primary Author:          Kamu Rugumire Karekaho

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The primary objectives of the project are to reduce short-term power shortages and financial
imbalances, and facilitate orderly longer-run expansion of electricity service.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



                                                       v
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                  approval                           Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Unmet demand (GWh)
Value
                                              18 GWh unserved
quantitative or   30 GWh unserved monthly                                         1.67GWh
                                              monthly
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/05/2012                  07/31/2011                          07/31/2011
Comments
                  Unmet energy demand reduced by 95% as compared to the target reduction of 40%. But
(incl. %
                  post-project situation continues to experience load shedding.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     UETCLs net revenues from power sales + GOU funds transferred
Value
quantitative or   Negative                    Positive                            Positive
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2007                  07/31/2011                          07/31/2011
Comments
                  UETCL's net revenues remained positive through the project implementation period.
(incl. %
                  But post project situation posed significant financial risks to sector.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Quality of functioning of the Energy Sector Working Group
Value
                  Start Up meeting on April   Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
quantitative or
                  24th, 2007 in Kampala       functioning                         functioning
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2007                  07/31/2011                          07/31/2011
Comments
                  Sector Working Group meeting regularly. First ever Joint Sector Review held
(incl. %
                  November 2011.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                                 Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                          Revised Target
                                                   approval                          Completion or
                                                                   Values
                                                  documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Short-term thermal generation capacity (MW)
Value
(quantitative     0MW                         150MW                               196MW
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2007                  07/31/2011                          07/31/2011
Comments
                  Project target exceeded by 30%. But delays in Bujagali commissioning undermined the
(incl. %
                  outcomes.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     GOU arrears on payments to UETCL

                                                   vi
                  Arrears to be cleared as a
Value
                  condition of disbursement Less than 5% of                          No Oustanding
(quantitative
                  of Policy Support Program owed amount                              Arrears.
or Qualitative)
                  funds
Date achieved     03/05/2007                 07/31/2011                              07/31/2011
Comments
                  GoU, in addition to paying its energy bills, provided over US$305 million in direct
(incl. %
                  budget support. GoU budget support continues to be crucial for the sector.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Firms implementing high-impact energy efficiency measures (Cumulative number)
Value
(quantitative     20                           250                                   130
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2007                   07/31/2011                            07/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %          GWh electricity saved through energy efficiency measures (cumulative)
achievement)
                  Energy Investments undertaken in various public institutions. Over 100 small and
Indicator 4 :     medium enterprises are participating in the energy efficiencies measures initiated by the
                  utility operator which include power factor correction and bulk metering.
Value
(quantitative     0                            10                                    55
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2007                 07/31/2011                         07/31/2011
Comments          Target exceeded by about 450%. About 43.2GWh saving was achieved by GoU
(incl. %          provision of CFLs which was completed by 2007, whereas about 12GWh accrued from
achievement)      other EE investments.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                           Actual Disbursements
 No.                                 DO                            IP
          Archived                                                              (USD millions)
  1      06/21/2007            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2      12/17/2007            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    81.65
  3      06/02/2008            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    89.56
  4      09/23/2008            Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory              89.95
  5      03/02/2009            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   121.53
  6      12/15/2009            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   190.31
  7      06/08/2010      Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory            239.70
  8      03/27/2011      Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory            298.62
  9      10/18/2011       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             300.85


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                     vii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          viii
1.       Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1      Context at Appraisal

General Context

1)       Following a 20 year period of political turmoil and internal strife, Uganda
achieved a remarkable economic recovery between 1986 and 2006. This was achieved
due to internal political stability, structural reforms, sound macroeconomic management,
fiscal discipline coupled with prudent monetary management, increased foreign direct
investment, and substantial support from development partners. . As a result, the
economic growth rate rose to an average of 6.4% between 1990 and 2005 after being
stagnant at less than 1% during the 1970s and early 1980s. A direct effect of this
formidable economic recovery was the growth in demand for electricity. The
Government of Uganda (GoU) initiated a number of interventions to meet this demand:
(i) the rehabilitation and upgrade of the Owen Falls Dam (now renamed Nalubale) from
150MW to 180MW; (ii) the construction of the 200 MW Owen Falls Extension Power
Station (now renamed Kiira); (iii) the construction of several mini–hydropower plants
across the country; (iv) sector reform aimed at attracting private sector investments
including a new Electricity Act in 1999 which led to the unbundling of the hitherto
vertically integrated state owned Uganda Electricity Board (UEB) into separate entities
responsible for generation, transmission and distribution in 2001; and (v) the
concessioning of the generation and distribution facilities to the private sector and the
establishment of an independent Regulatory Body forthe sector.

Sector Context and Rationale for the Project

2)      Despite the country‟s commendable progress in sector reforms and in attracting
private sector investments, Uganda continued to suffer from chronic power shortages.
The following key factors contributed to the energy shortages:

      a) Lack of sufficient generation capacity mainly attributed to the delayed
         commissioning of the Bujagali hydropower plant, which was caused by the
         withdrawal of the project‟s initial private sector sponsor when the project failed to
         reach financial closure in 2003, as well as due to additional time required to
         secure a new private sector sponsor;
      b) Prolonged drought in the region in 2004 which caused a reduction in the energy
         generated from existing hydropower facilities;
      c) Sustained high fuel prices combined with logistical challenges and the costs of
         transporting fuel for power generation into Uganda which is a landlocked country.
         This made thermal power generation a costly alternative;
      d) High levels of technical and non-technical system losses (estimated at about 44%
         in 2005);
      e) High annual demand growth of about 8% which was not matched by additions in
         generation capacity;


                                               1
        f) As the demand continued to grow rapidly, even with the significant addition of
           short-term thermal generation capacity in 2005-06, the system was unable to meet
           its load in 2007. The shortfall ranged from 15%-40%.

3)      The power supply situation and the accompanying financial crisis were affecting
growth and threatening to undermine the reforms and other advances achieved in
Uganda‟s power sector. Most importantly, the fragile situation of the sector was
threatening to reverse the gains made in securing private sector participation and future
prospects for investment in the Bujagali 250MW hydropower project that was being
prepared for a second time with private sponsorship, commercial financing and broad-
based support from donors, including the World Bank.

4)      The power shortages also led to lower retail electricity sales and revenues, thereby
affecting the financial viability of the private distribution concessionaire UMEME. When
the company took over the distribution concession in March 2005, energy supply
available to UMEME was 1,900 GWh, which fell to 1,500 GWh in 2007. This reduction
affected UMEME‟s ability to recover its fixed costs over fewer units of energy supplied.
The government compensated UMEME; however, this caused a further drain on the
constrained national budget. This situation was exacerbated by the high cost of thermal
generation, which increased generation costs even more.

5)      Uganda Electricity Transmission Company (UETCL), the single buyer and
wheeler of power, also felt the financial squeeze as its bulk supply tariff (BST) was not
fully cost reflective. On the one hand, it had to pay the fixed costs of Eskom (the private
operator of Nalubaale/Kiira hydropower plant) and the thermal power costs of other
Independent Power Producers (IPP‟s), and on the other hand, UMEME, the private
operator of the distribution network, was protected in recovering its underlying costs to a
large extent. Overall, the reduced generation and the high cost thermal generation were
threatening the financial viability and sustainability of the entire energy sector.

6)      The GoU undertook a set of interventions (including the project) to address the
short term challenges. These interventions were supported by a policy framework
designed to ensure sustainable and reliable power supply as highlighted in the letter of the
Power Sector Policy1. The key elements to improve power supply comprised of short-,
medium- and long- term interventions. The short-term included emergency thermal
generation and energy efficiency interventions (supported by the project). The medium-
term interventions included implementation of the Bujagali 250MW hydropower power
plant (which was expected to be commissioned by April 2011), development of 50 MW
of micro-hydropower plants, and other energy efficiency measures. The long-term
strategy included the expansion of generation capacity, especially focusing on renewable
energy. The generation mix was to also include recently discovered local petroleum to
hedge against shocks related to low hydrological conditions.



1
    Letter of Power Sector Policy dated March 20th 2007



                                                          2
7)     The project would also provide support for the preparation of a sector investment
plan. A medium-term sector financing plan for the period 2007-2011 was prepared and
agreed upon to ensure sector financial sustainability, which included direct subsidies by
the GoU to the sector as well as tariff structure adjustments.

Rationale for Bank Involvement

8)      The Bank has been a deeply involved partner in the development of Uganda‟s
energy sector. The Bank has maintained a broad level sector dialogue with the GoU
covering power generation, transmission and distribution, access to electricity, energy
efficiency, traditional fuels, as well as the petroleum sector. The GoU continued to seek
Bank advice and support in the sector, especially during the critical period before
commissioning of the Bujagali plant. The Bank‟s engagement was consistent with the
Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy (UJAS), which identified the Bank as the lead donor in
the Ugandan power sector. The Bank‟s portfolio included the following projects:

         Energizing Rural Transformation (ERT) (Cr 3588) – aimed at creating a
          conducive environment and providing associated sectoral capacity enhancement
          for commercially oriented, sustainable service delivery of rural/renewable energy
          and ICT;
         Power IV (Cr 3565) - which was designed: (a) to improve power supply to meet
          demand by supporting critically needed investments in the sub-sector (included
          the addition of 80 MW of generation at Kiira); and (b) to strengthen Borrower
          capacity to manage reform, privatization, and development in the power and the
          petroleum sub-sectors;
         Privatization and Utility Sector Reform Project (CR 3411) – which was designed
          to improve the quality, coverage and economic efficiency of commercial and
          utility services, through privatization, private participation in infrastructure (PPI)
          and an improved regulatory framework. It also included a Letter of Credit in
          support of the distribution concession to UMEME.

      Further, while the Power Sector Development Operation was a short–term mitigation
      measure, the Bank was also engaged in the preparation of the Bujagali Project, the
      next least cost option in the hydropower expansion program and the development of
      the regional East Africa Power Market. These interventions were aimed at supporting
      Uganda and the regional countries to diversify supply, optimize investments and
      increase electricity supply.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

9)      The primary objectives of the project were to reduce short-term power shortages
and financial imbalances, and facilitate orderly longer-term expansion of electricity
service.

10)       In order to achieve these objectives, the project comprised of:



                                                3
      (a) A set of investments and policy measures designed to reduce the supply-demand
          gap until the Bujagali hydropower plant comes into service in 2011;
      (b) Financial support for the Government to absorb a part of the high costs of short-
          term thermal power generation; and
      (c) Policy measures aimed at ensuring sector financial viability, accelerating rural
          electrification, and moving towards the development of the sector on a
          programmatic sector-wide approach.

11)      The original outcome indicators for the project were:
         (a) Reduction in monthly unmet demand (from 30GWh to 18GWh);
         (b) Achieving positive net revenues from power sales for UETCL (including
             support from Government funds transfers); and
         (c) Improving the quality and functioning of the Energy Sector Working Group.

1.3   Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

12)   The Project Development objectives were not changed during the project
implementation.

1.4      Main Beneficiaries

13)     The project‟s direct beneficiaries were the electricity customers; in particular the
productive sector, which would benefit from increased grid supply, reduced load
shedding, better quality of service, and reduced need for expensive back-up generators.
IDA assistance would also help to maintain the momentum of the power sector reform
program, reducing the power sector's drain on public expenditures. The increased power
supply with improved reliability would facilitate higher economic growth and thus
benefit the population at large.

1.5      Original Components

14)    This project combined a Policy Support Program (US$80 million) aimed at
supporting the Government in consolidating and advancing sector reform while meeting
some of the remaining financing gaps and a Specific Investment Loan (US$220 million)
to support specific capacity addition in order to maintain adequate power supply capacity.

15)    The Policy Support Program covered three policy areas with support from the
investments under the Investment Project:

      (a) Power Shortages: This supported development of an energy efficient policy
          framework required to maximize the impact of energy efficiency measures. The
          focus was on improving the efficiency of power supply (reducing transmission
          and distribution losses) and demand (end-user energy efficiency) and included
          the preparation of an energy efficiency strategy and plan;
      (b) Sector Finances: This was to ensure that the sector attains a satisfactory financial
          performance, so that the private sector participants remain committed. The policy

                                               4
          actions focused on tariff increases to partially cover the high cost of thermal
          power; clearing of GoU arrears owed to UETCL and for the UETCL to clear
          arrears owed to generation companies; and
      (c) Longer term sector expansion focused on improving some aspects of sector
          governance, especially the framework and effectiveness of the related institutions:
          (i) establishment of a joint Energy Sector Working Group (ESW); (ii)
          independent evaluation of the rural electrification framework and Rural
          Electrification Agency (REA) with subsequent legal modifications to the
          Agency‟s statutes by new legislation if required; (iii) daily monitoring of Lake
          Victoria water abstraction for power generation (based on the amounts permitted
          by the Agreed Curve) and reporting these data to the EAC ; and (iv) participation
          in development of Regional and In-country Watershed Management Plans related
          to Lake Victoria.

16)      The Investment portion of the operation comprised two components:

      (a) Component 1: provided partial co-financing towards the capacity and energy
          charges of a 50MW thermal plant installed at Mutundwe in Kampala. The
          financial assistance included coverage of the capacity payments for the full
          contract period, and energy charges, including fuel, for the initial years of the
          contract.
      (b) Component 2: provided for Technical Assistance and Energy Efficiency.

17)      Under Component 2, the following activities were to be undertaken:

         (a) Energy Efficiency (EE) and Demand Side Management (DSM) – to support
             the Ministry in expanding a framework for a large scale program for energy
             efficiency and demand side management work. This included:
              i.   Carrying out targeted Energy Audits in facilities with the highest
                   electricity savings potential and selective investments in Energy
                   Efficiency and Demand Side Management initiatives.
             ii. Studies on: update of the Energy Efficiency Strategy and Implementation
                   Plan; Load Management Measures for both supply and demand sides;
                   and Institutional and Organizational set up to enable the Government
                   and its agencies in standardizing energy efficient equipment.
            iii. Capacity Building for MEMD staff, providing relevant training to
                   develop capacity in EE and DSM and support to Universities to enhance
                   curricula in EE and DSM.
            iv.    Implementing communication and education campaigns on EE and
                   DSM.
         (b) Independent Evaluation of the Rural Electrification Program – to improve the
             framework for rural electrification;
         (c) Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) – to examine the distributional
             impacts of energy sector policy reforms on the well-being or welfare of
             various stakeholder groups, in particular, the poor and vulnerable populations;


                                              5
        (d) Power Sector Medium-term Investment Plan – to prepare a Power Sector
            Investment Plan that would facilitate the provision of adequate and reliable
            power while anticipating the demand based on the country‟s vision for
            economic development;
        (e) Lake Victoria Transmission Ring Feasibility Study – to assess the feasibility
            of the Masaka – Mwanza 220kV transmission line;
        (f) Kalagala Offset Tourism Development Plan – to support the Government‟s
            plan to institute mitigation measures at the Kalagala, Itanda (site on the River
            Nile, below Bujagali falls) to offset the loss of Bujagali Falls when the
            proposed dam was constructed; and
        (g) Energy Sector Communications Strategy – to support Government‟s efforts to
            ensure that key information on sectoral strategy and initiatives is made
            publicly available in a timely and effective manner.

1.6 Revised Components

18)    The original project components were not revised nor were the objectives of the
components changed. The Independent Evaluation of the Rural Electrification Strategy
and Plan was transferred to ERT II, and a new component Updating the Cultural Property
and Management Plan was introduced.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

19)     There were two significant changes: (a) delayed implementation of the Mutundwe
Plant – partly due to procurement delays and due to fuel supply disruptions, which
resulted in the plant commencing operations in August 2008 (instead of the planned
commissioning date of June 2008); and (b) delayed commissioning of Bujagali
hydropower plant – the first Unit was commissioned in February 2012, and full operation
of the power plant is expected by July 2012. This has resulted in extension of usage of
Mutundwe 50MW thermal plant until Bujagali comes on line. These changes, however,
did not affect the closing date of the project on July 31, 2011.

20)     The two tables below provide further details on the project cost and financing.

                                    Table 1: Project Costs
          Project Cost by Component and/ or Activity          Local     Foreign     Total
                                                             US$ mill   US$ mill   US$ mill
      A. Policy Support                                         0          80         80
      B. Financing of Capacity and Energy Charges              25         209        234
      C. EE/ DSM & Regional Integration                        3.9        16.8       20.7
      B.1 EE/DSM                                               3.5        15.2       18.7
      B.2 Regional Integration                                 0.4         1.6        2.0
      D. Technical Assistance                                  0.4         1.7        2.1
                                      Total Project Costs     29.3       307.5      336.8
                                 Total financing required     29.3       307.5      336.8




                                               6
                   Table 2: Allocation of Financing Amounts in the IDA Credit
                       Category                  Original Allocation     Reallocation
                                                        US$                 US$
          Goods, Works and Consultants for               15                   0
          MEMD portion
          Goods, Works and Consultants for              209                     0
          UETCL portion
          Training, and Workshops (MEMD)                0.21                    0
          Operating costs                               0.41                    0
          Policy Support                                 80                     0
                                         TOTAL          305


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Operation Design

21)     Satisfactory Background Analysis - Key lessons learned from the previous and
ongoing energy projects in Uganda and elsewhere were implemented to ensure readiness
of the stakeholders for the project as well as to ensure design and implementation
simplicity. GoU had already initiated a comprehensive reform and privatization program,
restructured and unbundled the sector, and approved a major tariff increase before the
project‟s effectiveness.

22)    For the Policy support program, the main lessons learned and reflected in the
Design were:

          Commitment of Government and Other Stakeholders. The project built on lessons
           learned from the previously completed Power III Project (Credit 2268) which
           underlined the importance of “Government’s ownership of its power sector reform
           program as a critical underpinning to ensure its successful and timely
           implementation?. Through the instrument of a Policy Support Program, the
           project created incentives for the Government of Uganda to continue with its
           successful sector reform by keeping the ownership of the reform with the
           Government. The GoU showed its commitment to sector reform through the
           budgetary allocations to enhance the generation through private sector
           participation and implementation of tariff structure reviews in 2006.

          The Bank Group‟s clear and consistent articulation of its approach towards
           reforms in a situation where it is supporting a number of projects in the sector as
           demonstrated by the sector-wide dialog of the policy focus of the project.

          Techno-economic considerations, such as the conclusions of a least cost
           expansion plan, should be given due weight, and not be overshadowed by political
           considerations in the choice of major sector investments. Government has adopted
           a sector structure which promotes this approach.




                                                 7
23)    For the investment part, an important lesson was the need for tackling power
shortages from both supply and demand sides - The project design included initiatives to
increase the supply (the installation of new capacity, provision of fuel, and funding for
purchase of energy from imports or from new plants)as well as management of the
demand including improvements in energy efficiency at the end-user and fostering
energy conservation;

24)     The project also built on lessons learned from the previously completed Power III
Project (Credit 2268) which concluded that “it is more efficient to initiate and implement
measures to improve institutional and financial performance in advance of major new
investments.? Through Power IV (Credit 3545) and Privatization Utility Sector Reform
(Credit 3411) projects, IDA has supported GoU in the unbundling of the sector and
strengthening of the newly created institutions; the investment Project was thus to be
implemented following improvement of the sector and its institutions and also provided
for further support needed to maintain performance in advance of the Bujagali project.

25)     Alternatives to the project were considered including the separation of Policy
Support Program and Investment Project. While the Policy Support Program was well
suited for mitigating short term financial imbalances and setting the stage for long term
sector expansion, it was noted that it could not finance the country‟s additional power
generation or provide the technical assistance Uganda needed. Combining the two
components in one project made it possible to capture the synergies between the two, and
also enabled the Bank to continue the policy dialogue with the Government under a
single project.

26)     For the investment component, options considered were to put greater emphasis
on energy efficiency and regional interconnections. There was still a pressing need to add
new capacity to the power system, as demand reduction by itself was not sufficient to
address the then prevailing significant capacity shortage. A second alternative considered
was to place a greater emphasis on other supply alternatives such as energy imports (from
Kenya or from other neighboring countries) as part of the umbrella regional integration
effort supported by the East Africa Power Market Project proposed for Bank support
(FY08). These supply alternatives would have the additional benefit of providing a hedge
against oil price fluctuations. It was determined that while interconnections were
important medium-term solutions, they would not be able to make a significant
contribution, since none of Uganda‟s neighbors had firm excess power available.
However, in anticipation of future development of the East Africa Power Market, the
project did support technical assistance for Lake Victoria transmission ring pre-feasibility
and feasibility studies.

27)    Assessment of Risks - The project design considered the risk factors and
appropriate measures were adopted to mitigate all the main risks identified at appraisal.
Overall the project was assessed to have no potential risks rated as critical or high.

      (a) Hydrological risk: Changes in Lake Victoria water levels could aggravate the
          crisis. Mitigation measures included increasing thermal generation, adopting more

                                              8
   extensive demand side management measures, looking for alternative ways to
   implement load shedding, and accelerating mini-hydro co-generation prospects in
   the short term, and geothermal investigations in the long term, to complement
   hydropower supply and reduce over-abstraction from Lake Victoria. These
   measures were helpful at handling this risk.

(b) Increase in Oil Prices or Increase in Demand for Electricity, requiring
    additional funds from the Government or tariff increases - The sector financial
    requirement forecast calculations considered high oil price scenarios. A more
    aggressive DSM program, and, in the worst case scenario, load shedding scheme,
    would need to be implemented, if necessary. During implementation, all these
    risks impacted the project as the fuel prices were higher than considered, demand
    growth was sustained, and though tariff increases were necessary, the GOU
    actually decreased tariffs in January 2010 (see also para (d)below).

(c) Risk of GOU subsidies being required for the long term - The subsidies to the
    power sector were required because of the very high thermal generation costs.
    Such subsidies were expected to be no longer required once the expensive short-
    term thermal generation facilities were replaced by much cheaper hydropower
    generation. The next least cost hydropower generation facility was planned to be
    commissioned in early 2011. This new hydropower facility was expected to
    relieve the GOU from further subsidy commitments once commissioned. There
    were unforeseen geological conditions (subsurface risk) that were encountered
    during the project implementation and have resulted in delay of the plant
    commissioning by about a year. This delay, combined with roll back of tariffs
    placed further burden on the GoU. Further, a review of the financial sector
    performance and outlook undertaken in May 2011, highlighted that the annual
    revenue requirements of the power sector to 2016, were expected to grow
    considerably and electricity revenues based on present tariffs would be
    inadequate to meet such requirements mainly due to the continued high demand
    growth and the proposed significant additions to generation capacity and
    extension of the transmission and distribution networks. Given this scenario, the
    risk that subsidies would not be required post the commissioning of Bujagali, did
    materialize. To address this emerging scenario, the Bank team has maintained an
    active and continuous dialogue related to long term sector planning and sector
    financial viability.

(d) Opposition to increase in electricity tariffs - Tariffs were increased before project
    effectiveness, preceded by a comprehensive public consultation process.
    Furthermore, the Lifeline Tariff (tariff for the first 15 kWh/month) for protection
    of poor households was maintained without rate increase. Additional tariff
    changes depending upon price of oil and amount of rainfall were considered.
    Though the tariffs were increased before the project effectiveness, the sector
    financial model and financing plan for the period 2007-2011 had made a number
    of assumptions as related to (i) change in hydrology, (ii) macroeconomic
    considerations such as exchange rate fluctuation against the US$, and (iii) change

                                         9
   in the international fuel prices. However, in January 2010, instead of increasing
   the tariffs to take into account higher inflation, shilling depreciation against the
   dollar and increase in international fuel prices, the GOU reduced retail tariffs by
   an average of 8%. This was a policy roll back seriously affecting the sector
   revenues and sustainability and placing additional burden on GOU for subsidies
   to cover the revenue shortfall. GoU in January 2012, has initiated measures to put
   the sector on a sustainable path, with the first of the actions including a general
   tariff increase of 55.5% effective January 2012.

(e) Power system losses remain high, rendering price increases less effective in
    terms of revenue collection and price elasticity to reduce demand - UMEME, the
    distribution system operator, was to make investments to reduce losses and fraud.
    It agreed with ERA on revised system loss reduction targets including demand
    side management measures and improvement of the billing processes – a new
    billing system was procured and installed. These initiatives have seen both loss
    reduction and revenue collection improvements over the project period. Though
    these initiatives were undertaken, the forecasted levels in the distribution losses
    were not attained (distribution losses were at about 29% in 2011 against the
    forecasted level of 24% used in the sector financial model). To improve
    performance, the Government and Umeme are in discussion over the required
    actions to ensure that the system losses are reduced to be within industry average
    norms including a rollout of a pre-payment system.

(f) UMEME, the distribution system operator, exits, and commercial losses get out
    of control - Preliminary agreement was reached on amendments to the concession
    agreements that would permit UMEME‟s shareholder Globelec to continue
    supporting its investments with certain (payback) guarantees and to limit financial
    losses due to insufficient energy available for sale. This risk mitigation, has
    contributed to upholding the distribution operations, but the recent load shedding
    has led to public outcry in the post-project period. Discussions are ongoing
    between GoU and UMEME on new targets for performance and certainlicense
    provisions.

(g) Delays in approval of Energy Efficiency Strategy and Plan - Cabinet approval
    was expected to be received soon as the cabinet‟s interest in energy efficiency
    was expected to be high in view of the supply shortages. Cabinet approved the
    Uganda Renewable Energy Efficiency and Strategy in 2007, thus enabling
    preparation of the draft instruments for an Energy Efficiency and Conservation
    bill and supporting operational regulations including an institutional framework
    under which the regulatory regime will operate to promote efficient utilisation of
    energy in Uganda.

(h) GOU does not remain current on payments to UETCL - Extra budget support
    from IDA would reduce financial pressure on MOFPED. This risk materialized in
    the post-project period, as the GoU has not been able to provide adequate
    resources to cover the sector subsidies. This led to increased load shedding in the

                                        10
         post- project period, as some of the thermal plant operators have had to switch off
         the plants due to cumulated non-payments. This situation is expected to improve
         when the Bujagali power plant is commissioned.

      (i) Delays in commissioning of Bujagali hydropower plant – This risk was
          addressed directly under the separate hydropower (Bujagali) project. Though
          additional mitigation measures were considered including quick implementation
          of micro-hydropower plants (about 40 MW were commissioned between the
          period 2009-11), this risk has impacted the sector operations post-project as
          highlighted in paragraphs (c) and (h) above.

      (j) Final contract for Mutundwe station not acceptable to the Bank - UETCL
          undertook advance procurement assisted by a legal firm. However,
          commissioning of the plant was delayed by about a year, mainly due to protracted
          negotiation of the PPA. The challenge in the PPA discussions was related to
          allocation of the fuel supply risks, that the plant operator initially wanted borne by
          UETCL, whereas the contract payments were based on available capacity and
          energy generated.

      (k) Sector Investment Plan not drafted in a timely manner - MEMD was to initiate
          procurement of consultants immediately to enable adoption of the
          recommendations in the early years of the project to complement the project short
          term mitigation measures. The project design did note that one of the underlying
          causes of the generation capacity constraint in the power sector at the time mainly
          stemmed from the lack of a least cost generation plan; and more so from delayed
          implementation of identified priority projects mainly due to lack of funding. The
          preparation of the Sector Investment Plan was delayed by about two years.

      (l) Fuel Supply - a risk that emerged during implementation which was not identified
          at Appraisal was the fuel supply risks. The project design had assumed that the
          plant operator through his fuel supplier would ensure adequate stocks. Due to
          various supply interruptions (such as during the period when the supply pipeline
          was being refurbished) GoU had to intervened by prioritizing the national reserve
          stocks‟ allocations to the plant operators, in addition to availing extra storage
          facilities to the fuel supplier.

2.2 Implementation

28)     Overall Project Implementation: The project was designed as a “fast track?
operation. The project was primarily expected to provide the needed incremental energy
before the commissioning of the next major power station (expected by April 2011). The
project therefore had a three year implementation period up to July 2011. During the
initial years of implementation, the overall project implementation progress was
satisfactory, mainly due to the initiation of the procurement activities before project
effectiveness, but there were still delays in the commissioning of the 50 MW power plant
by about one year. Also, the procurement actions at the Ministry of Energy were delayed,
resulting in delayed preparation of the Sector Investment Plan, and implementation of the

                                               11
energy efficient investments that would have resulted in early energy savings in the initial
years of project implementation.

29)     Implementation of the Policy Support Program- The conditions of disbursement
for this component were met before project effectiveness, thus, enabling disbursement
soon after project effectiveness. The performance in terms of handling of longer term
policy aspects related to sector finances and longer term sector expansion was mixed. For
example, there was a roll back on the tariffs structure, partly negating the early progress
made in the sector and also affecting the sector‟s further prospects and sustainability.
The Bank undertook a review of the sector performance and outlook in May 2011, which
highlighted that the annual revenue requirements of the power sector would grow
considerably through 2016, and electricity revenues based on present tariffs would be
inadequate to meet such requirements. The review also made recommendations for the
GOU which are being taken up in the ongoing dialog with the GOU. One significant
action is the recent adjustment to tariffs to bring the sector back on track.

30)     Implementation of the Investment Component - UETCL was responsible for the
implementation of: (a) Component 1 (Thermal Power Generation) in its entirety; and (b)
Component 2 – Regional Transmission Study. The project encountered various
challenges during implementation, some of which were outside the government‟s control
and the implementing agencies. The implementation of the thermal plant was delayed due
to the protracted contact negotiations and commissioning and was later additionally
delayed by fuel supply interruptions. GoU was pro-active in addressing the fuel supply
interruptions as highlighted in paragraphs above. The regional transmission study was
delayed mainly due to the longer period taken in the procurement of the study consultant,
and later during the study the need for close collaboration with Tanzania.

31)     Implementation of the investment components by the Ministry of Energy and
Mineral Development related to the Energy Efficiency and Demand Side Management
elements and preparation of Sector Investment Plan - Most of these components were
delayed due to inadequate capacity at the MEMD resulting in subsequent delays in the
selection of the various study consultants. Implementation started slowly with most
components not ready for implementation at the time of Board approval in March 2007.
To address the capacity issue, a Procurement Specialist and an Energy Efficient Expert
were recruited to support the MEMD team.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

32)     M&E Design. The project design contained a number of very specific
performance and outcome indicators related to unmet demand, financial viability of key
sectoral utilities, and the set up of the Energy Sector Working Group. The indicators were
appropriate and suitable as indicators towards the PDO and hence could easily be used to
evaluate the policy and project performance.

33)    M&E Implementation. Data for key performance indicators were collected by
the individual implementing agencies (UETCL and MEMD). These data were closely
monitored and the actual figures were compared with the target values by these agencies.

                                            12
34)    M&E Utilization. Data collected from the implementation agencies were
evaluated and used for decision-making on project activities. For example, results from
the energy audits were used to inform the decision on appropriate related energy saving
investments. Similarly, financial monitoring reports (FMRs) focused on the level of
disbursements and assessed the progress of each of the components.

35)      In addition to the M&E, the following assessments were undertaken:

      (a) A Poverty and Social Impact Assessment - In view of the tariff increases during
         the period 2006-07, a Poverty and Social Impact Assessment (PSIA) was
         undertaken to examine the distributional impacts of energy sector policy reforms
         on the well-being or welfare of various stakeholder groups, in particular, the poor
         and vulnerable populations. The study highlighted that addressing the impact of
         power tariffs on households and households‟ enterprises require a policy mix to
         both the suppliers of energy and end users of the service since each category faces
         different bottlenecks. The study also highlighted that despite GoU intervention in
         terms of subsidies, electricity tariffs were still high, particularly to the poor
         households and small business enterprises consumers. The high tariffs continue to
         limit access to electricity among the poor, as reflected in high disconnections,
         inability to pay bills in time and continued accumulation of arrears, thus, a likely
         requirement of subsidies beyond the earlier anticipated duration (commissioning
         of Bujagali).

      (b) Sector Financial Performance and Outlook Reviews - Three comprehensive
         reviews were undertaken during the project that helped underpin the emerging
         issues in addition to ensuring that adequate financial resources and mitigation
         measures were adopted. The financial reviews of May 2010 and May 2011
         highlighted that based on the planned sector investments, the prevailing levels of
         tariffs would be inadequate to meet the sector financial requirements over the
         medium term. The Government has used these assessments to adopt a set of
         interventions as required such as increase of tariffs and allocation of additional
         resources to the sector.

      (c) Sector Generation Planning Committee- To ensure that the allocated finances
         were adequate to meet the sector revenue requirements, and more so the payments
         to thermal plants, the GoU instituted a committee that would review the short
         term load demand, the planned generation dispatch and appropriately agree on a
         dispatch schedule that would optimize both the generation capacity available
         while optimizing the financial requirements. One such decision of the committee
         was to adopt a water dispatch regime that would allow high releases at peak time,
         and lower than average releases at off-peak to be able to meet the peak power
         demand requirements, at the same time ensuring that the water releases remained
         within the allocated amounts.




                                             13
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

36)     The project complied with the identified safeguard policies (OP 4.01 and 4.12) at
both preparation and implementation phases. Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) were prepared and publicly
disclosed by the Government and the Bank. The RPF and ESMF provided the framework
under which project investment would address social issues in conformance with
Government and World Bank requirements. Environmental Management Plans (EMP)
and Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) were prepared for the thermal plant. There were
also adequate measures put in place for fuel waste treatment and disposal. Other
mitigation measures included compensation and resettlement for residents near the plant
in other areas for the duration of the PPA; construction of a 5m noise barrier to reduce
noise levels; changing the lighting system, re-scheduling the ignition times to minimize
the ADO smell at ignition and monitoring of households that were resettled out of the
plant site.

37)     The financial management performance was rated Satisfactory with a Low Risk
rating as there were reasonably strong internal controls in place. MEMD implemented the
recommendations made with regard to the budgeting and accounting function. External
auditing arrangements at both components over the Project were adequate though there
were some delays in submission of Audited Accounts.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

38)     Plans to facilitate a financially sustainable sector in the medium term - The
generation capacity constraint and financial imbalances in the power sector mainly stem
from a lack of least cost generation plan and timely implementation of identified priority
projects due to lack of funding.

39)    To address the above challenges, GoU has continued with short term measures to
bridge the generation gap until the commissioning of the Bujagali power station
(expected to be fully operational by July 2012). The associated financing plan to support
a more sustainable and least cost expansion of the generation capacity in Uganda is being
prepared and GoU has allocated an equivalent of about US$ 1.50 billion in the Medium
Term Expenditure Framework for the sector. In addition: (a) tariffs were increased by an
average of 55.5% effective January 2012; (b) discussions are ongoing to convert some of
the debt of the generation and distribution companies to equity; and (c) discussion are
continuing with the distribution operator towards a more robust loss reduction strategy.

40)     Power Supply - Since the commissioning of 170 MW of thermal generation during
the period 2006-08, GoU has supported the development of additional generation,
especially, mini-hydropower plants. A total of about 42 MW has been commissioned since
20092 . Further, GoU proposes to retain at least 100 MW of thermal plants3 beyond the


2
    Bugoye (8.3), Buseruka (9.0), Ishasha (6.5) and Mpanga (18).
3
    Namanve (50MW), Kaiso Tonya(80/100MW)

                                                     14
commissioning of the Bujagali 250 MW hydropower plant, until the commissioning of the
next major hydropower (which is expected to be around 2016-17). GoU is fast-tracking
preparation of a number of priority projects to meet the capacity requirements in medium-
long term among which are the following: (a) Karuma 600 MW Hydropower plant - GoU
has engaged a consultant for the design of the power plant. Pre-qualification of contractors
has taken place and the contract for the construction of the power plant is expected to be
signed by the end of 2012; (b) Isimba 120 MW power project - feasibility study ongoing and
expected to be completed by June 2012. In parallel, GoU is also considering various options
for financing the development of the power plant; (c) Ayago 600 MW hydropower project -
the pre-feasibility for Ayago is complete and the feasibility study will start in July 2012; (d)
to reduce the reliance on hydropower, given the historical variation in the lake Victoria
hydrology, GoU has put in place the following measures: (i) 50 MW HFO thermal plant has
been commissioned that will use the recently discovered oil in Uganda, and plans are
underway for an additional 50-80 MW topping plant; and (ii) pre-feasibility studies of
Katwe, Buranga, Kibiro and Panyimur geothermal prospects are underway.

41)      Power Sector Investment Plan (PSIP)-The project supported the preparation of
the PSIP, according to which the GoU intends to undertake new investments in the sector
and has put in place a comprehensive set of actions and measures to enable
implementation. These include: (a) establishment of a committee to monitor the
electricity demand/supply balance and associated financing requirements so as to ensure
that emerging issues are timely addressed; and (b) the Sector Working Group, set up with
the support of the project, which has developed comprehensive monitoring and
evaluation systems to assess the impacts and outcomes of policies, investments and other
activities in the energy sector. The findings are recorded in the quarterly reports to the
Prime Minister‟s office and the Sector Joint Annual Reviews. The first such Energy
Sector Joint Annual Review was held in November 2011.

42)     Institutional Framework for a coordinated sector development – There has been
some progress towards establishing a sector framework that will promote sustainability
and growth in the long term. The MEMD is undergoing restructuring and under the
revised structure, the Energy Planning Department shall be responsible for planning for
energy growth in the sector, monitoring the implementation as well as updating the
Sector Investment Plan. The new ministry structure will help address challenges posed by
lack of a focal point responsible for recording of historical data for monitoring and
planning purposes in order to facilitate coordinated management of the sector. Under the
recently approved Bank financed Electricity Sector Development Project, a study will be
undertaken to review the institutional, legal and regulatory set up in order to formulate
options for improved functioning of the electricity sector.

43)     Energy Efficiency and Demand Side Management- Several energy efficiency
investments have been implemented (water, public universities and buildings, street
lighting, hospitals and public schools and colleges). GoU, supported by other Donors and
follow on Bank projects (ERT II and ESDP), is continuing with additional incentives to
sustain energy efficiency and demand side management. Among these ongoing activities
include (a) improving of the system power factor by installing power factor correction

                                              15
equipment to reduce the KVAr demand; (b) creating incentives for improved power
factor by introducing a KVAr charge for large electricity consumers; and (c) support to
the National Bureau of Standards to procure testing equipment for energy efficient bulbs.

44)      Communication Strategy: The project supported development of the energy sector
communications strategy aimed at supporting GoU‟s efforts to ensure that key
information on sectoral strategy and initiatives is made available to the public in a timely
manner. As part of the strategy, the ministry is now disseminating information regarding
activities being undertaken in the sector using electronic, radio, print media, as well as
through workshops aimed at managing people‟s expectations.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

45)      The relevance of the Project Objectives remains High. The main development
objective of the project to reduce short-term power shortages and financial imbalances,
and facilitate orderly longer-term expansion of electricity service remains relevant to
Uganda‟s development priorities as stated in the country‟s National Development Plan
(NDP) covering the period 2010-11 – 2014-15 . The NDP notes that “limited access and
use of energy significantly slows down economic and social transformation?. The Plan
has “improved stock and quality of the economic infrastructure? as one of its priorities.
Specifically, for the energy sector, the NDP focuses on increasing access and
consumption of electricity by investing in least cost power generation, promotion of
renewable energy and energy efficiency in addition to the associated transmission and
distribution infrastructure. The Bank‟s CAS covering the period from 2011 to 2014 notes
specifically that inadequate infrastructure, especially transport and energy, is Uganda‟s
binding constraint for growth and economic transformation. One of the CAS Strategic
Objectives is to “Enhance Public Infrastructure? with one of the outcomes being
increased access to electricity. The project specifically addressed the short term
generation capacity deficits and financial imbalances and helped have in place an
institutional framework that would support longer term least cost generation Power
Sector Investment Plan.

46)    As already noted, the project design responded to the short term challenges and
also incorporated support for laying the proper policy, institutional and financial
frameworks for least cost development of the sector. Regarding implementation, with the
exception of policy roll back related to the tariff structure, , the overall implementation
approach remains relevant. Importantly, the GoU has recognized the drawbacks and has
proceeded to bring the sector back on track.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives (Efficacy)

47)    The overall achievement of the PDO is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The
assessment is based on the policy aspects as contemplated during the design and
performance towards the close of the project even though the project achieved most of

                                            16
the outcome indicators with regard to reduced energy deficits, financial performance of
the UETCL, facilitating orderly longer-run expansion of the electricity sector. The
objectives related to reduction in short-term energy deficits and financial performance of
the UETCL were of high significance as they were critical for the sector sustainability in
the short term, whereas the facilitating the orderly longer term expansion of the electricity
sector was of moderate significance as it supported the medium-long term improved
performance/sector sustainability.

48)     The outcomes achieved related to reduced short-tem power shortages are overall
rated as Satisfactory. The generation deficit reduced with the commissioning of the 50
MW thermal plant in 2008. At project closure, monthly energy unmet demand was
reduced by about 95% compared to a target of 40%. A total of 196 MW of additional
generation capacity was installed against a target of 150 MW (exceeding the project
target by about 30%); and about 55 GWh per annum is being saved against a target of 10
MW through a number of energy efficiency initiatives related to energy use efficiency
and load management. GoU promoted the use of energy efficient bulbs (CFLs) and
energy efficiency investments were undertaken in a number of public institutions (water,
public universities and buildings, street lighting, hospitals and public schools and
colleges). A number of other initiatives were undertaken to manage the electricity
demand and reduce losses: (a) improving of the system power factor by installing power
factor correction equipment to reduce the KVAr demand; and (b) creating incentives for
improved power factor by introducing a KVAr charge for large electricity consumers.
Some of the measures being implemented include UMEME‟s bulk supply metering for
SMEs, such as grain millers to reduce commercial system losses. Draft instruments for an
Energy Efficiency Bill and supporting regulatory and institutional frameworks were
prepared and a cabinet white paper highlighting principles to be embodied into the
Energy Efficiency and Conservation Law was presented to the Cabinet.

49)    The post closing project period has been characterized by an increase in the
monthly energy deficit mainly attributed to the limited financing for the thermal plant
operations post the project closure leading to increased load shedding. This situation has
arisen due to a number of factors not anticipated at the start of the project, as the
attainment and sustainability of the outcome related to reduced energy shortages was
based on the premise that there would be adequate financing to cover the thermal plant
capacity and energy costs until the commissioning of the Bujagali 250 MW plant, then
forecasted to come on line in April 2011. The plant commissioning was delayed due to
unforeseen ground conditions and the full commissioning of the plant is expected by July
2012. With Bujagali plant, Uganda will be able to replace up to 100 MW of the expensive
emergency thermal generation capacity with cheaper hydropower. Thus, in addition to
helping eliminate load shedding, the Bujagali plant will also help reduce the overall
generation cost.

50)    The outcomes achieved related to the objective of reduced sector Financial
Imbalances are rated Moderately Satisfactory. An assessment of the sector financial
performance and outlook undertaken before project closure in May 2011 indicated that
the sector is on a firmer footing now than it was during the 2005-07 period. The

                                             17
Government‟s support through subsidies over the years 2005-10 (amounting to about
USh 576 billion or US$ 305 million equivalent) was significant in improving the sector
finances, notably that of UETCL inter alia to ensure timely payments to the IPPs. The
subsidies were in part funded from the project, which was exhausted in late 2010. From
early 2011, therefore, the full burden of the subsidy was placed on the GoU budget.
After the electricity tariff increases in 2006, the GoU did not adjust tariffs to maintain and
reach cost-recovery levels to reduce / eliminate the need for subsidies; instead, in January
2010, the GoU reduced retail tariffs by an average of 8%. This required additional
subsidies to cover the revenue shortfall. The financial outlook for the sector also indicates
that government subsidies, which were expected to be weaned off with the
commissioning of the Bujagali 250 MW hydropower plant, will need to continue. Thus
this objective is rated moderately satisfactory.

51)      The outcomes achieved related to the objective of facilitation of orderly long-run
expansion of the electricity service are rated Moderately Satisfactory as it was not fully
achieved. A power Sector Investment Plan has been prepared and validated by the Sector
Working Group. The plan includes, among others, the sequencing of the various proposed
power plants, the associated financing requirements and potential sources, the impact on
the end user tariff and a road-map for implementation of the various projects. This will
help to minimize the challenges being faced by the sector with a road map to undertake
the proposed sector longer term expansion in an orderly manner. A Sector Working
Group aimed at establishing a framework that will promote the sector growth and
sustainability was set up in 2006, and has clearly defined annual work plans and
deliverables including measures to enhance effectiveness. There are plans to enhance the
capacity of the Sector Secretariat under the Electricity Sector Development Project. The
first Joint Sector Review was held in November 2011. In view of the shortcomings in the
effectiveness of the Working Group in timely addressing the critical sector issues, it is
rated as moderately satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

52)        Economic Benefits (Investment Component only; not required for the Policy
    Support program) - At the time of project appraisal, the cost of load shedding to the
    economy was significant and the project was implemented as part of the short-term
    emergency generation. The feasibility of either importing electricity from the Kenya grid
    or locating a Uganda-specific thermal plant in Kenya, in order to economize on fuel
    transportation costs, was examined and neither of the options was feasible within the
    required time period; the alternative would have been to continue with increased load
    shedding. In consideration of the alternatives above, the project adopted the least cost
    approach by using the Cost of Unserved Energy (CUE) 4 as a proxy benefit of the
    project, which was estimated at US$ 0.373 per kWh. This value still remains valid as
    compared to the average cost of US$ 0.20 per kWh for the energy generated from the
    rental 50 MW thermal plant (Component1 of the project). The thermal plant was


4
  For the commercial and industrial load, the CUE would be the cost of self-generation, and for the
residential load, the cost of using electricity substitutes.

                                                    18
competitively procured based on prudent practice; having the capacity costs fixed for the
duration of the contract, whereas the fuel supply component was adjusted based on the
monthly Means of Platt.

53)      Other unquantifiable economic benefits include: (a) the avoided knock-on effect
on the rest of the power sector, since lower volumes in supply lead to lower retail
electricity sales and revenues, which also affected the viability of UMEME, the private
distribution concessionaire and (b) risk of closure of some of the medium and small
enterprises as most of these have limited capacity to acquire back-up generation capacity.

54)     Financial Analysis – As noted above, the sector performance and outlook is on a
firmer footing now than it was during the period 2005-07. The GoU continues to extend
considerable financial support to the power sector. Details are provided in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

55)      The project was designed to address three core challenges in the energy sector –
short term power shortages, financial imbalances and to facilitate orderly long-term
expansion of electricity services. Even though the agreed results indicators related to
reduction of energy deficits, financial performance of UETCL, reduction of energy by
instituting energy efficiency measures, and the Sector Working Group, were largely in
line with the targets by the close of the project, as noted in the previous sections and
paragraphs, the sector situation in terms of financial sustainability – a key determinant
and foundation of the policy based operation – was not achieved.

56)    The foundation for long term development of the sector along least cost path has
been set up and the Government‟s institutional capacity to manage further development
in the sector has been initiated. The effectiveness of the Working Group still needs
improvement as evidenced from the sector developments. However, until the associated
financing plan to support a more sustainable and least cost expansion of the generation
capacity in Uganda is implemented, the risk of continued power supply deficiency and
adequate finances remains high.

57)      During the last year of implementation and the post-project closing period, there
was an increase in load shedding, and the financial situation of the sector became
unsustainable and adversely impacted the GoU budget which is supporting the sector
through subsidies. The financial outlook of the sector indicates that subsidies, which were
expected to be weaned off with the commissioning of the Bujagali 250 MW hydropower
plant, will need to continue unless bold measures are put in place, including cost recovery
tariffs. Therefore, the overall outcome of the project is rated as moderately satisfactory.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

      (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

                                            19
58)     Because of the relationship between power supply, economic development and
poverty alleviation, the project intended to contribute to the reduction of poverty by
removing one of the most significant obstacles to the country‟s economic development,
namely the limited and unreliable electricity supply. The project has positively affected
everyday life in the country, especially in urban areas, by helping to reduce the power
cuts affecting thousands of households that had to endure 24 hour load shedding at times.
The elimination of wide spread power cuts has also enabled businesses to increase their
competitiveness as they no longer have to operate costly diesel generator sets and
enhances the attractiveness of Uganda as an investment destination.

      (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

59)      The Sector Working Group has been put in place and has been meeting regularly;
a Work Plan and Deliverables for 2010-11 have been prepared and the first Energy and
Mineral Development Joint Sector Review (JSR) under the theme “Contributing to
Uganda’s Development through Sustainable Management of the Energy and Mineral
Resources? was held November 10–11, 2011. The Sector Working Group will promote
the sector growth and sustainability by having a comprehensive monitoring and
evaluation system to assess the impact outcomes of policies, investments and other
activities in the energy sector. There are also plans to enhance the capacity of the Sector
Secretariat under the upcoming Bank financed Electricity Sector Development Project.

      (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative) - None.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

      Rating: High

60)     The risk to the Development Outcome of this project was rated as High related to
the plans of facilitating a financially sustainable sector in the medium term. Until the
associated financing plan to support a more sustainable and least cost expansion of the
generation capacity in Uganda is implemented, the risk of continued power supply
deficiency and adequate finances remain high as evidenced from the post project period,
August-December, 2011. The current generation capacity constraint and financial
imbalances in the power sector mainly stem from a shortage of electricity supply, higher
cost generation facilities, and delayed implementation of identified priority projects due
to lack of funding. To address these issues, GoU has put in place measures to increase the
generation in the medium term as highlighted in section 2.5. The post Bujagali power
supply situation remains uncertain as there are no committed investments for additional
significant investments in generation. The WBG, the IMF and Donors continue to work
together to engage all stakeholders for developing and implementing suitable responses
to address the situation in the sector.




                                               20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

      (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

      Rating: Satisfactory

61)     The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the
project was judged to be Satisfactory. At the concept stage, the prioritization of the Bank
funded activities was done within the context of the sector situation that required urgent
intervention measures to reduce the power shortages while at the same time laying a
foundation for longer term sustainability of the sector. During preparation and appraisal,
the Bank took into account technical, financial, economic, and fiduciary concerns,
including financial management aspects. A number of risks were identified and risk
mitigation measures highlighted. Some risks were underestimated. The finalization of
PPA turned out to be more complex and incurred a year of delay as these were to be
based on commercial practices, without using the Bank standard documents. The MEMD
lacked capacity resulting in implementation delays. The Bank provided adequate
resources, in terms of staff weeks and budget, to ensure quality preparation and appraisal
work and maintained a good working relationship with the Borrower throughout the
project implementation. Based on the foregoing, the Bank‟s performance for quality of
entry is rated satisfactory.

      (b) Quality of Supervision

      Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

62)      The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project and the quality
of supervision is rated as moderately satisfactory. During the first half of the
implementation, the Bank performance was satisfactory. Sufficient budget and staff
resources were allocated, and the project was intensively supervised and closely
monitored. The project was well supervised by a Bank team, consisting of multi-
disciplinary members, and without significant changes in team composition during
implementation. There were also experienced local staff members on the team with a
good knowledge of Uganda‟s energy sector. This included a Power Engineer/Task Team
Leader, as well as procurement, financial management, environmental, and social experts,
led by an engaged Country Manager and Country Director. Financial Management
supervision has been satisfactory and the adequacy of financial management
arrangements has been reviewed regularly with a close follow up of the quality of the FM
reports and implementation of recommendations of external audits. Safeguards policies
were specifically monitored and addressed, and the team worked with the relevant
agencies to help ensure environmental and social due diligence, inter alia through the
implementation of the RPF and ESMF. The quality and candor of supervision reports was
good, including reporting on the outcome indicators.



                                            21
63)      However, since the policy set back in 2010, the Bank team could have been even
more pro-active to assess the impacts and engage at the higher levels in the Bank and the
GoU and helped more effective dialog early on the critical actions. Based on the sector
situation towards the close of the project in mid-2011 and subsequently, and since it is
significantly a policy operation, the overall quality of Bank supervision is rated as
moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

      Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

64)     The overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory, based on the
short comings noted above in some aspects of the design and importantly in supervision
effectiveness aspects. Adequate teams and resources were fielded during preparation,
appraisal and supervision. When it became clear in May 2010 that there was a risk to the
PDO not being met, the Bank team maintained candor during project supervision and
engaged GoU to put in place actions that would ensure project sustainability. There is
continued Bank engagement and support through follow up operations. The preparation
identified key risks as highlighted above; some of which materialized and posed a high
risk to the project development objective. In view of this and the fact that the sector
experienced significant difficulties due to GoU policy action shortcomings and the lack
of timely response by the Bank, the overall Bank performance is rated as moderately
satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

      (a) Government Performance

      Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

65)      Government commitment to the main development objective was strong from the
outset as demonstrated by the initiatives to increase generation capacity from a mix of
resources (both thermal and hydro), by including implementation of energy efficiency
measures, budgetary support to the sector, revision of tariffs, and leveraging the private
sector. Significantly the Government of Uganda moved proactively to address one of the
most difficult challenges to project success, the inadequate tariff levels, by rapidly raising
the tariffs, cognizant of the need to balance the subsidies from the public purse. However,
as noted during the period starting 2010, GoU was slow in putting in place adequate
measures to ensure that follow-on generation projects are implemented without delays.
This situation was further exacerbated by the roll back on tariffs and the lack of adequate
budget provision to sustain the thermal plant operations in the post-project period up to
the commissioning of the Bujagali project, which has resulted in increased generation
deficit after the project with some of the thermal plant operators switching off generation
due to accumulated non payments. Thus, in view of the fact that the risk to the PDO
related to the long term sector financial sustainability remains high, the overall
Government performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.


                                             22
      (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

      Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

66)     Project Supervision Assessments have judged the implementation capacity of
MEMD and UETCL as adequate. The performance of UETCL, the agency responsible
for the implementation of Components (1) and (2) (b), is rated Satisfactory, albeit with
some delays in the procurement of Component (2) (b). The agency has an in-house PIU,
with adequate staff able to follow through all the aspects of the project including timely
resolution of issues related to technical and safeguards as they emerged. The performance
of the MEMD, responsible for the implementation of the energy efficiency measures, is
rated Moderately Satisfactory. Initially, the agency experienced procurement delays
mainly due to lack of in-house technical and procurement expertise. Following provision
of the additional support (Energy Efficiency Expert and Procurement specialist), the
performance improved, but the implementation continued to be slow due to the internal
processes. Overall, the energy efficiency measures that were considered as low hanging
fruits and initially forecasted to be implemented in the initial years of the project were
overly delayed, with the energy efficiency investments being undertaken during the last
year of the project.

      (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

      Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

67)     The overall Borrower performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.
Commitment of the government to the project objectives was strong as evidenced from
the difficult actions undertaken including increasing electricity tariffs significantly and
commitment of the scarce public resources for subsidies. However, there was mixed
performance during implementation including a roll back on tariffs in January 2010
seriously undermined the reforms underway and the financial sustainability of the sector.
The recent actions to adjust tariffs and support institutional development are important
indicators of GOU recognition of the sector issues. Still, the capacity constraints at the
implementing agency level and the risk to the sector development and its financial
sustainability remain high. Therefore, the overall performance of the Borrower is rated as
moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

68)      Supply side and demand side should be tackled together to enhance outcomes.
Electricity shortages need to be addressed from both supply side (generation) and demand
side (energy efficiency) as they complement each other; as evidenced by the results of the
project that resulted in contributions of about 1,000 GWh from the 50 MW Mutundwe
Plant on the supply side over the 4 years, and about 10 GWh from the demand side, out
of savings arising from energy efficiency measures.

69)    Realism in Project Implementation Planning. The Bank, as well as borrowers,
should be realistic about the time it takes to initiate and complete project activities, taking

                                              23
into account the implementation capacity of the borrower and the potential technical
challenges in project implementation. Labeling a project “urgent? while responding to a
crisis creates expectations that can be difficult to manage when procurement activities are
slow to advance and results take time to materialize. In addition, PPAs involving private
sector take much more time to prepare and negotiate contracts of this nature, which are
not based on World Bank standard documents, but commercially acceptable practices.

70)      Policy actions for sustainability need sustained dialog: In view of the planned
new major investments, the Government has to implement measures to improve
institutional and financial performance in advance of these investments. These measures
include plans to facilitate a financially sustainable sector in the medium term highlighting
the sector committed investments including the associated financing and implementation
plans. The post project closing events, arising out of not having adequate budget
provisions to ensure the continuing operations of thermal plants highlight the need for the
stakeholders to continue high level dialog on key policy issues beyond the project period.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
      (a) Borrower/implementing agencies - None.

      (b) Co-financiers

71)      SIDA – None.

      (c) Other partners and stakeholders - None.




                                             24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                              Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
           Components                                         Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)                                  Appraisal
                                                                 millions)
A. Policy Support                             80                   80.5                   100
B. Financing of Capacity and Energy
Charges                                       234                   246                   105
C.EE/DSM & Regional Integration              20.70                  11.7                  56.5
D. Technical Assistance                       2.10                 0.792                  37.7
Total                                       336.80                 339.0                 100.6




(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                          Type of Co-                                 Percentage of
            Source of Funds                               Estimate        Estimate
                                           financing                                   Appraisal
                                                        (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                   0.00            0.00           .00
 International Development Association
                                                            300.00           306.40          102
(IDA) 1/
 SWEDEN: Swedish Intl. Dev.
                                                              6.50            3.81              57
Cooperation Agency (SIDA)
Local (GoU)                                                  29.30           28.80            98.6
Total                                                       336.80           339.0           106.6
1/: Actual higher in US$ terms due to SDR and US$ exchange rate difference




                                                   25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Fast Disbursing Policy Component (US$80.0 million) - The Policy Support Program
covered three policy areas with support from the investments under the Investment
Project:

(a)    Power shortages - This supported development of an energy efficient policy
       framework required to maximize the impact of energy efficiency measures. The
       focus was on improving the efficiency of power supply, i.e. reducing transmission
       and distribution losses, and demand, i.e., energy end-use efficiency and included
       the preparation of an energy efficiency strategy and plan.
(b)    Sector finances -This was to ensure that the sector attains a solid financial footing,
       so that the sector‟s structure remains sound, and private sector participants remain
       committed. The policy actions focused on tariff increases to partially cover the
       high cost of thermal power; the clearing of GoU arrears owed to UETCL and
       UETCL to clear arrears owed to generation companies.
(c)    longer term-sector expansion focusing on improving some aspects of sector
       governance especially the framework and effectiveness of the related institutions:
           (i) Establishment of a joint Energy Sector Working Group (ESW)- Sector
                Working Group is set up and operational.
           (ii) independent evaluation of the rural electrification framework and Rural
                Electrification Agency (REA) with subsequent legal modifications to the
                Agency‟s statutes by new legislation if required- this was undertaken
                under another project (Energy for Rural Transformation);
           (iii) Daily monitoring of Lake Victoria water abstraction for power generation
                and reporting to EAC of these data, along with the amounts permitted by
                the Agreed Curve - the Lake Victoria water data is regularly submitted to
                the EAC Secretariat.
           (iv) Participation in development of Regional and In-country Watershed
                Management Plans related to Lake Victoria. Uganda is one of the member
                countries participating in the Lake Victoria Environmental Management
                program.

Component 1: Thermal Energy (US$ 206.5 million IDA)
Mutundwe 50 MW Thermal Plant was set in operation in August 2008. The plant
performance is rated satisfactory having met the technical performance outputs and the
safeguard standards. By project close, the power plant was contributing about 15% of the
total energy generation. Uganda‟s generation deficit reduced with the commissioning of
additional generation in 2008 but the recent trend shows an increase in the deficit (about
0.76% and 13.8% energy and capacity as of June 2011) mainly attributed to high load
growth that had not been matched with additional generation. A total of about 40 MW
additional generation capacity, mainly from mini-hydropower plants, has also been added.

Component 2: Technical Assistance and Energy Efficiency (EE) (US$ 13.5 million
IDA and US$ 6.5 million SIDA parallel finance).



                                            26
A1: Energy Efficiency and Demand Side Management

This focused on creating an implementation framework for a large scale program
entailing significant sensitization and capacity building and was complemented by
ongoing activities under the ERT and Power IV Project as well as activities supported by
other donors like GIZ as well as an additional funding of US$ 6.5million from SIDA.

Under this component the following sub-components were undertaken:

   (a) Energy Audits and Technical Assistance – several energy efficiency audits have
       been conducted (water utility, public universities and buildings, street lighting,
       hospitals and public schools and colleges).

   (b) Investments in EE and DSM - Following the completion of Energy Audits, the
       Ministry procured energy efficient equipments and installed them in various
       public institutions in Uganda. These public institutions included; hospitals,
       schools & colleges, buildings, universities, KCCA street lighting and National
       Water and Sewerage corporation facilities.

   (c) Studies and Capacity Building – included:
               Energy Efficiency Bill – The objectives of the assignment were to
                  prepare the draft instruments for an Energy Efficiency and
                  Conservation bill and supporting operational regulations and propose
                  an institutional framework under which the regulatory regime will
                  operate to promote efficient utilisation of energy in Uganda. The draft
                  bill was completed and a cabinet paper highlighting principals to be
                  embodied in the Energy Efficiency and Conservation law has been
                  prepared to be presented to the Cabinet.
               Load Management. Support –supported the design and implementation
                  of measures for improved load management both on the supply and on
                  the demand side. Discussions have been held with relevant Institutions
                  including UMEME, Electricity Regulatory Authority, Uganda
                  Electricity Transmission Company Limited, and the Uganda
                  Manufacturers Association on measures to be undertaken to manage
                  the load and reduce losses and the demand. One recommendation is to
                  take the necessary steps to do power factor connection among large
                  consumers of electricity which leads to a reduction on the KVA
                  demand. Steps taken by UMEME so far include: (i) Customer
                  sensitization on the need for large consumers to improve the power
                  factor and (ii) Tariff application was approved by the Electricity
                  Regulatory Authority, where customers with good power factor have
                  an incentive and those with poor power factor are being penalized.
               Capacity Development at MEMD - this included courses, seminars,
                  experts, visits to other EE and DSM institutions, formal training, and
                  enhancement of project management and procurement capability.



                                          27
                 EE and DSM Training - training for industry practitioners, contractors,
                  consultants and other involved parties, to develop local capacity and
                  assist in implementation of the conservation program in Uganda,
                  including training of trainers to help disseminate knowledge of DSM
                  and EE. Several staff were trained in areas of procurement and
                  contracts management, utility management, financial management and
                  energy efficiency.

  (d) Communication and Educational Campaigns –design and implementation of
      tailored programs and mass campaigns to convey messages on why and how to
      save energy, including training and dissemination was undertaken including
      energy efficiency weeks.

A2. Independent Evaluation of the Rural Electrification Program-This was undertaken
under another project, The Uganda Energy for Rural Transformation Program. Overall,
the assessment noted that the program has reached a commendable level of performance,
in addition to recommendations to scale up the national access rates and introduction of
an output based approach to address the barrier of high up front connection charges
especially for the low income end households in electrified areas.

A3. Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) - Poverty and Social Impact Assessment
was to examine the distributional impacts of the energy sector policy reforms on the
well-being or welfare of various stakeholder groups, in particular, the poor and
vulnerable populations; especially in view of the tariff increases during the period
2006/2007. The PSIA report highlights that addressing the impact of power tariffs on
households and households‟ enterprises require a policy mix to both the suppliers of
energy and end users of the service since each category faces different bottlenecks. The
findings also highlight that despite government intervention in terms of subsidies,
electricity tariffs are still high particularly to the poor households and small business
enterprises consumers. The high tariffs continue to limit access to electricity among the
poor, as reflected in high disconnections, inability to pay bills in time and continued
accumulation of arrears. It was noted in the study that electricity consumers especially
the industrial and commercial category, they pay much more for power during load
shedding. They are willing to pay a bit more money for improved quality of service
which is more reliable.

A4. Power Sector Medium-term Investment Plan- Power Sector Medium-term
Investment Plan – to prepare a Power Sector Investment Plan that would facilitate the
provision of adequate and reliable power while anticipating the demand based on the
country‟s vision for economic development. The Ministry of Energy and Minerals
Development is coordinating the implementation of the PSIP.

A5. Lake Victoria Transmission Ring Pre-feasibility and Feasibility Studies- Feasibility
Study for the proposed Masaka – Mwanza 220kV Transmission Line – the Contract for
the Consultancy services became effective on January 22, 2010, and the final reports
were submitted in June 2011. The interconnector between Uganda and Tanzania is

                                          28
ranked as one of the major regional infrastructure requirements and the EAC Secretariat
is sourcing funding for the line construction.

A6. Kalagala Offset Tourism Development Plan – was aimed at supporting the
Government‟s plan to institute mitigation measures at the Kalagala, Itanda site on the
River Nile, below Bujagali falls, to offset the loss of Bujagali Falls when the
contemplated dam is constructed. International Union of Conservation of Nature (IUCN)
was contracted to guide the process and with Ministry of Water and Environment is
coordinating the implementation of the Sustainable Management Plan.

A7. Updating the Bujagali Cultural Property Management Plan;
The objective was to update the Cultural Property Management Plan. A MoU was
signed between BEL, GoU and Busoga Kingdom to construct the shrines and financing
ceremonies for the relocation of the „spirits‟. The Bujagali „spirits‟ were relocated in
early June 2011.

A8. Energy Sector Communications Strategy - Energy Sector Communications Strategy
– to support Government‟s efforts to ensure that key information on sectoral strategy
and initiatives is made publicly available in a timely and effective manner; activities
undertaken include:

      A communication training needs assessment;
      Updating the Ministry‟s website that is now operational;
      A media scrap book and media analysis reports;
      Video on the Energy Saving Week;
      Quarterly Electronic Newsletter, and
      A documentary for Bujagali and other developments in the Sector.

As a follow up, with support from GIZ- PREEEP, an advertising agency was contracted
to develop further reaching, better planned and implemented strategic communication
campaign for the energy sector.




                                          29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

In a financial review undertaken in May 2011, the following points were observed:

        1. The power supply situation has improved considerably since mid-2005, when
           hydro output was severely curtailed due to hydrological constraints; presently the
           peak demand is estimated at 440MW and peak time supply at 410-420MW. Load
           shedding at present is minimal estimated at between 20 and 30 MW at peak and
           mostly localized due to network overloading. The 250 MW Bujagali hydro plant
           is expected to start commercial operations by July 2012.

        2. The financial situation of the power sector is now on a firmer footing than it was
           since the power crisis started in mid-2005 and into the first half of 2007. The
           Government has and continues to extend considerable financial support to the
           power sector. Over the past six years (2005-10), the Government has provided
           USh576 billion (US$305 million) in direct budgetary support. In addition, the
           World Bank (IDA) provided USh406 billion (US$192 million) for the full cost of
           thermal power procured from Aggreko‟s 50MW power plant at Mutundwe
           between 2008 and 2010.

        3. Over the next few years, the Government of Uganda has set a high priority for: (a)
           the development and expansion of the country‟s generation capacity from
           573MW in 2010 to 1,822MW by 2017/2018, (b) investments of USD 1.5billion
           for the extension of the transmission network to include regional interconnections;
           and (c) investments of about USD 1.0 billion for the extension of the distribution
           network to increase access to electricity in rural areas by more than 500,000 new
           connections over the next 10 years.

        4. The annual revenue requirements of the power sector are projected to grow from
           USh 820 billion (US$330 million) in 2012 to USh980 billion (US$380 million) in
           2013 and to USh1,660 (US$580 million) by 2017. Electricity revenues based on
           present tariffs will be wholly inadequate to meet such requirements. The projected
           financing gap will need to be closed by a combination of tariff and non-tariff
           measures. The needed tariff increases will depend on the level of available
           budgetary support from the Government. Measures are being undertaken to
           implement most of the recommendations; starting with a proposed tariff increase
           and methodology5. The tables below highlights the projected sector key financial
           indicators and financing plan for the period 2008-2017.




5
    Tariffs were increased by an average of 55.5% effective January 2012.



                                                                  30
                Revenue Requirements & Financing Plan 2008-2017

                                                     Financial Requirements (all figures in USh billions unless otherwise indicated)
                                                               2008        2009       2010         2011        2012      2013       2014           2015     2016      2017    2012-17
                                                                       Actual                  Forecast                                       Forecast
Total Sector requirements (before subsidies)
Eskom/UEGCL                                                      30          38         36             46        56        60         63             65       65        51        360
UETCL (net of export revenues)                                  385         451        616            819       477       585        787            903      957       917      4,625
Total bulk supply                                               415         489        651            864       533       644        849            968    1,021       969      4,985
Umeme/UEDCL                                                     168         189        208            231       289       340        402            497      605       693      2,826
Total Sector requirements before subsidy                        583         678        859          1,095       822       984      1,251          1,465    1,626     1,661      7,811
of which, thermal:
Capacity payments                                                 42         63         85             89        36        57        134            139      120       100        586
All other charges                                                283        339        461            588        13         6        144            143      130       129        565
Total thermal costs                                              325        402        546            677        49        63        279            282      250       229      1,151
Thermal costs as % of total sector requirements                 56%        59%        64%            62%        6%        6%        22%            19%      15%       14%        15%

Required average retail tariff*
USh/kWh (present, Jan 2010 = 301)                                456        484         528           606       417       455        528            564      570       528        517
US$/kWh (present, Jan 2010 = 0.15)                            0.2681     0.2331      0.2507        0.2564    0.1685    0.1765     0.1988         0.2074   0.2047    0.1852     0.1932
Shortfall compared with present tariff                          46%        55%         80%          107%       43%       56%        80%            93%      95%       81%        77%

Retail revenue based on present average tariff                  398         445        476            529       577       633        694           760       835       920      4,420

Revenue shortfall in year (before subsidies and tariff increases)
In USh billions                                                (185)      (233)       (383)         (566)      (245)     (351)     (557)          (705)     (791)     (741)   (3,391)
In equivalent US$ millions                                     (109)      (112)       (182)         (240)       (99)     (136)     (210)          (259)     (284)     (260)   (1,248)
* Tariffs quoted in these tables are exclusive of 18% VAT



                                                     Indicative Financing Plan (all figures in USh billions unless otherwise indicated)
                                                               2008        2009       2010         2011        2012      2013       2014           2015     2016      2017    2012-17
                                                                       Actual                  Forecast                                       Forecast
Revenue shortfall in year (before subsidies and tariff increases)
In USh billions                                                (185)      (233)       (383)         (566)      (245)     (351)     (557)          (705)     (791)     (741)   (3,391)
In equivalent US$ millions                                     (109)      (112)       (182)         (240)       (99)     (136)     (210)          (259)     (284)     (260)   (1,248)

                Indicative Financing Plan
I. Government support
   1) Redeployment of debt service                                0           0          0             26        55        57         59            61        58        28       318
   2) Dividends of UEGCL diverted to UETCL                        0           0          0             31         0         0          0             0         0         0         0
   3) Direct support                                            115          56        189            420        60        60         60             0         0         0       180
     Total budget support                                       115          56        189            477       115       117        119            61        58        28       498
   4) IDA support                                                 0           0          0              0         0         0          0             0         0         0         0
       Capacity charges                                           7          23         24             27         0         0          0             0         0         0         0
       Other thermal charges                                     47         149        139              0         0         0          0             0         0         0         0
       Total IDA support for operational costs                   54         173        162             27         0         0          0             0         0         0         0
   Total Government support towards revenue requirements        169         229        351            504       115       117        119            61        58        28       498

II. Other tariff support                                          0           0          0              0         0         0             0          0         0         0         0

Remianing revenue (shortfall) after tariff support
 In USh billions                                                (16)        (4)        (32)          (62)      (130)     (234)     (438)          (644)     (733)     (713)   (2,893)
 In equivalent US$ millions                                     (10)        (2)        (15)          (26)       (53)      (91)     (165)          (237)     (263)     (250)   (1,059)

III. Tariff increases
  % increases in year                                          0.0%       0.0%        -7.9%        25.0%      10.0%     10.0%     10.0%          16.0%      0.0%    -12.0%      0.0%
  Cumulative % increase since 2008                             0.0%       0.0%        -7.9%        15.2%      26.7%     39.3%     53.3%          77.8%     77.8%     56.5%     56.5%
  Dates of tariff increases                                                          Jan 10                  July 12   July 13   July 14        July 15   July 16   July 17
  Average tariff at December 31 (nominal prices)
     USh/kWh                                                     311        318         293           366       402       443        487            565      565       497        493
     US$/kWh                                                  0.1595     0.1672      0.1264        0.1516    0.1586    0.1690     0.1813         0.2053   0.2004    0.1722     0.1842
  Additional revenues from tariff increases                        0          0           0            66       180       281        408            606      777       749      3,001
  Changes in revenue requirements post Jan 10 tariffs              0          0           0            (4)        0         0          0              0        0         0          0
  Net tariff impact (additional cash collected)                    0          0           0            62       180       281        408            606      777       749      3,001

Remaining surplus/(shortfall)
 In year                                                          0           0        (32)           (0)        50        47       (30)           (38)       43        36       108
 Cumulative from 2010                                             0           0        (32)          (32)        18        65         35            (3)       40        76        76
 Redeployed debt service repaid in year                           0           0           0             0         0         0          0              0        0         0         0
 Remaining cumulative cash surplus/(shortfall)                    0           0        (32)          (32)        18        65         35            (3)       40        76        76




                                                                                              31
     Key Consolidated Operational & Financial Performance Indicators 2008-2017
                      (UEGCL, UETCL, UEDCL & UMEME)
                                             2008     2009     2010     2011     2012     2013      2014    2015     2016     2017
                                                  Actual                                       Forecast
Peak demand (MW)                              390      401      433      468      506      546       590     638      689      744
Total units sent out (GWh)                  2,096    2,298    2,486    2,684    2,897    3,216     3,811   4,426    4,721    6,403
 of which:
   Hydro                                     66%      54%      50%      49%      84%      79%       63%     58%      54%      40%
   Thermal                                   28%      39%      41%      38%       1%       0%       10%      9%       8%       6%
   Geothermal                                 0%       0%       0%       0%       0%       0%        0%      0%       0%       0%
   Renewables & other                         6%       7%       8%      13%      15%      21%       27%     33%      38%      54%

Transmission losses (132kV & above)          5.3%     5.1%     6.0%     5.8%     4.3%     4.1%     4.0%     3.9%     3.8%     3.7%
Export sales (GWh)                              67       82       77       80       84      173      511      849      858    2,182
Bulk supply to Umeme (GWh)                   1,942    2,146    2,324    2,510    2,708    2,938    3,180    3,437    3,715    4,015
Distribution losses                         34.2%    34.7%    30.0%    28.0%    27.2%    26.4%    25.4%    24.4%    23.2%    21.7%
Billed Uganda sales (GWh)                    1,278    1,400    1,627    1,807    1,971    2,162    2,372    2,598    2,853    3,144
Uganda sales growth                         12.3%     9.6%    16.2%    11.1%     9.1%     9.7%     9.7%     9.5%     9.8%    10.2%

Billed as % of units sent out to Uganda      63%      63%      68%      70%      70%      71%       72%     73%      74%      76%
Uganda sales collected as % of sent out      57%      60%      64%      66%      67%      68%       69%     70%      72%      73%

Ave. number of customers ('000)               301      312      365      428      480      545       620     700      780      865
Ave. number of employees                    1,456    1,478    1,508    1,541    1,611    1,679     1,716   1,756    1,796    1,839
Customers per employee                        207      211      242      278      298      325       361     399      434      470

Total electricity revenue (USh billion)       416      472      503      631      798      997     1,315   1,713    1,972    2,566
Uganda electricity revenue (USh billion)      398      445      476      595      758      914     1,103   1,367    1,612    1,670
Uganda electricity revenue (US$ million)      234      214      226      252      306      355       416     503      579      585
Uganda VAT revenue to GoU (US$ million)        42       39       41       45       55       64        75      90      104      105

Ave. Uganda electricity revenue (USh/kWh)     311      318      293      329      384      423       465     526      565      531
Ave. Uganda electricity revenue (US$/kWh)   0.183    0.153    0.139    0.139    0.155    0.164     0.175   0.193    0.203    0.186
Ave. operating income (USh/kWh)                 7       30       29       40       41       49        48      57       64       51
Ave. operating income (US$/kWh)             0.004    0.015    0.014    0.017    0.017    0.019     0.018   0.021    0.023    0.018

Return on fixed assets                       1.0%     4.5%     4.9%     7.1%     7.2%     8.7%     8.2%     8.4%     6.9%     3.8%
Debt service coverage                          1.3      2.0      1.8      2.0      2.1      2.8      3.7      3.9      5.9      9.7
Current ratio                                  1.1      1.2      1.2      1.4      1.4      1.3      1.1      1.0      1.1      1.5
Debt/equity ratio                             49%      49%      46%      42%      35%      37%      37%      38%      38%      39%




                                                                 32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
             Names                              Title                     Unit
Lending
Paul Baringanire                Senior Energy Specialist                AFTEG
Raymond Bourdeaux               Lead Infrastructure Specialist          MNSSD
Kristine M. Ivarsdotter         Senior Social Development Spec          LCSSO
Richard Olowo                   Senior Procurement Specialist           AFTPC
Karen T. Rasmussen              Consultant                              AFTP1
Robert A. Robelus               Consultant                              AFTWR
Robert Schlotterer              Sr Financial Analyst                    AFTEG
Janine A. Speakman              Operations Analyst                      AFTEG
Patrick Piker Umah Tete         Sr Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM
Supervision/ICR
Paul Baringanire                Senior Energy Specialist              AFTEG
Mary C.K. Bitekerezo            Senior Social Development Spec        AFTCS
Howard Bariira Centenary        Senior Procurement Specialist         AFTPC
Maria Concepcion J. Cruz        Lead Social Development Specialist    AFTCS
Martin Fodor                    Senior Environmental Specialist       AFTEN
Tesfaalem Gebreiyesus           Lead Procurement Specialist           SARPS
Paul Kato Kamuchwezi            Financial Management Specialist       AFTFM
Anta Loum Lo                    Language Program Assistant            AFTEG
Luiz T. A. Maurer               Principal Industry Specialist         CBGCT
Somin Mukherji                  Sr Financial Analyst                  AFTEG
Robert A. Robelus               Consultant                            AFTWR
Robert Schlotterer              Sr Financial Analyst                  AFTEG
Janine A. Speakman              Operations Analyst                    AFTEG
William F. Steel                Consultant                            ENVGC
Tigest Tirfe                    Program Assistant                     GEF

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                             No. of staff weeks
                                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending: FY06                                      43.92                           253.29
         FY07                                     108.70                           420.54
                                Total:            152.62                           673.83
Supervision/ICR: FY08                              93.07                           159.84
                 FY09                              44.93                            43.64
                 FY10                              29.88                            42.24
                 FY11                              22.99                            35.14
                 FY12                              13.79                            30.10
                                Total:            204.66                           310.96




                                                 33
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A Poverty and Social Impact Analysis was undertaken to assess the social and poverty
impacts of the power reforms with a view to inform future policy in the power sector
reforms and to recommend corrective actions where possible in order to mitigate the
negative effects of power sector reform policies in general and power sector tariff increases
in particular. From the study findings, the following were observed:

1. There are variations in the impact of power reforms on rural, urban, domestic and
   commercial users who are the main consumers of electricity. Connection charges are
   high and the cost of getting connected to the grid is much more expensive to residents
   in rural areas where one would need a number of poles to the grid. The power tariff
   increases are felt mainly by domestic users and small enterprises who are struggling to
   pay even though the government is subsidizing tariffs.

2. After the increase in tariffs, households having electricity connection declined in both
   urban and rural areas. There was also a decline in meter connections partly attributed to
   disconnections carried out by UMEME due to non-payment and illegal connections.
   Overall the average number of hours households used electricity increased from eight
   to about 10 hours after the increase in power tariff because electricity supply was more
   reliable. Load shedding (outages) were reported to be shorter and less frequent in urban
   and rural areas for households who reported more than two days of load shedding prior
   to the increase in electricity price. The reduction in load shedding is attributed to the
   increase in water levels, investment in thermal power and the energy measures related
   to the promotion of the use of energy-saving bulbs to replace ordinary bulbs in 2007 in
   the main load centers of Kampala, Entebbe, Wakiso, Mukono and Jinja.

3. To cope with the challenge of increased electricity tariffs, some consumers have
   adopted different mechanisms which include: conserving electricity using energy
   saving technology, partial payment of bills hence accumulating arrears and connecting
   to power illegally. Some disconnected customers have also decided not to reconnect
   and have opted to using alternative sources of energy such as firewood. The study noted
   that 10% of the households who had power in 2005/6 were disconnected from grid
   electricity and only 2% of households were connected by 2007/8. However, the study
   shows that majority of households paid according to the electricity bills despite the
   increase in power tariffs. The majority of households said that electricity was affordable.

4. Household budgets on electricity of the urban, rural, and richest households in rural
   areas increased within the above years. The increase was a result of the increase in
   electricity price, consumption of electricity or both. This increase can further be
   explained by the fact that overall the average number of hours households used
   electricity increased after the increase of power tariffs because electricity supply
   became more reliable. However the burden of tariff increases appeared to be highest
   among the poor who to a large extent did not use alternative clean sources of energy
   after the increase in electricity price. The main alternative energy source of lighting for

                                              34
   the poorest households was tadooba (kerosone wick-lamps) while the richest
   households substituted electricity with paraffin lamps. For cooking and boiling water
   the poor used firewood while the richest households used charcoal resulting in
   environmental damage.

5. Welfare loss as a result of an increase in tariff was greatest among the rural households
   as compared to urban households. Rural households recorded the greatest reduction in
   electricity budgets compared to their urban counterparts when the substitution effect is
   considered; however, if the income effect is considered the poor spent more on
   electricity compared to the richest households. Government subsidies benefited richer
   households compared to the poorest households as they consumer units of electricity.

6. Operating costs of all household enterprises increased although this declined for rural
   enterprises. The increases were partly due to the increase in electricity tariffs because
   they could not use alternative energy sources while those whose operating costs
   declined switched to cheaper energy alternatives. However, all enterprises realized
   profits between the two periods despite the increase in price of electricity.

7. While there is a perception of improvement in sector performance in some areas, there
   are variations in perceptions among stakeholders. Consumers hold some concerns
   particularly with regard to the way power institutions such as UMEME function, while
   actors within the power sector and government authorities are positive with regard to
   institutional performances. Power institutions reckon that reforms have led to improved
   sector efficiency, increased investment and increased employment opportunities;
   however, they still recognize a big task ahead to further enhancing sector performance.

8. Most consumers of electricity seem not to appreciate the mixed institutional models,
   which include multiple actors. New institutional set up and relationship with users is
   characterized by complaints and some sort of tension, which is indicative of the
   prevalence of inefficiency from the point of view of consumers. Among the main
   concerns for the users are metering, slow response to reported faults and difficulty in
   accessing offices in case of concerns or complaints. Most electricity consumers regard
   UMEME to be responsible for the high tariffs, disconnections, power fluctuations and
   the resultant losses. In general, consumers perceived government and UMEME as the
   winners from the reforms through „increased taxes and profits from the high tariffs‟.
   The losers according to the consumers are the poor in urban and rural areas who face
   difficulties in accessing and or paying for power.

9. In conclusion, the study concluded that the increase in tariff had had an effect on the
   environment since households resorted to firewood and charcoal. Electricity users need
   to be sensitized on the use of energy efficiency technologies as this can reduce demand
   and environmental damage. The impact of increase in tariffs can be mitigated by direct
   subsidies to the poor or by introducing differentiated tariffs for domestic users.
   Electricity Consumer Cooperatives should be further promoted as they offer lower bulk
   meter tariffs. Consumers should also be sensitized about the reforms and the roles of
   the different players in order to enhance power sector efficiency.

                                             35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

None




                                   36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

Relevance of Policy


1.     During preparation, the Government‟s main objective to implement the project
was to reduce short-term power shortages and financial imbalances, and facilitate orderly
longer-term expansion of the electricity sector.

2.      The Bank‟s assistance in providing funds for the project aimed at helping the
country to narrow the electricity demand-supply gap up to the time of commissioning the
Bujagali hydro power plant as a short term measure. The other objective was the
provision of financial support to the Government to absorb part of the high cost of short-
term thermal power generation as well as policy measures aimed at ensuring the sector is
financially viable, accelerating rural electrification, and moving towards a sector-wide
approach for development.

3.      The policy was timely because the country had implemented a successful
privatization of the electricity sector with the monitoring mandate given to the regulator.
However, at implementation, the electricity sector experienced hydrology constraints
which tremendously reduced the country‟s potential to generate cheap hydro power. This
led to the significant reduction in the electricity supply in the country. The result had the
potential of disrupting investment in the country especially the industry sector. The
Bank‟s loan therefore helped the country reduce the supply-demand gap in the electricity
supply and save the country from reversing the gains of privatization.

4.      The Government policy is to promote efficient utilization of energy. The Energy
Efficiency component was in line with this policy objective.

Relevance of Project Design

5.     The project component 1 was designed to provide funds to have additional
generation capacity from thermal plant to reduce the supply gap till the commissioning of
the Bujagali hydropower project. This was relevant because the alternative would have
been increased load shedding which would have negatively impacted on the economy.

6.      Component 2 on energy efficiency was relevant because it was observed that
additional energy could be made available through energy efficiency investments in
public institutions.

Project Outcomes

7.     The project was able to achieve the intended objectives, the status regarding the
key performance indicators for the Operation namely (i) Level of unmet demand; (ii)
Financial viability of key sectoral utilities; and (iii) Quality of functioning of the Energy
Sector Working Group.

                                             37
Major Lessons learnt

Component 2

8.     During the planning stage, we did not anticipate a delay in the commissioning of
Bujagali. The project closed before Bujagali was commissioned. In future there is need to
add more time or provide some form of flexibility since the implementation of Bujagali
was beyond the scope of the project.

9.       There was a delay in implementation of a number of project activities because the
Ministry staff who handled the project activities were also engaged in their day to day
activities. A fully dedicated team at the Ministry would have enabled speeding up the
process.

10.     In the budget for Energy Efficiency Equipment, there was an oversight of not
providing contingency funds for unforeseen accessories required at the phase of
equipment installation. Since the equipment was replacing existing inefficient equipment,
there were cases where unforeseen accessories were required such as electric cables,
water pipes etc. During installation of the equipment, it was a major challenge, given that
the project never provided for contingency funds. The institutions had to find resources
for accessory items.

11.   To avoid delays in future, it is proposed that taxes for equipment procured under
World Bank funds should be borne by the project to avoid delays in project
implementation.

Component 1and 2(b)

12.     The timeframe required to achieve the commissioning operations date (COD) was
not realistic. The procurement plan had envisaged that the plant would be commissioned
in June 2007, but it was achieved in July of 2008. Due to delayed procurement of the IPP,
especially the protracted negotiations that ensued on the appointment of a private legal
advisor, the plant COD date was achieved one year late. This delayed the supply of
power to the grid and increased the power rationing in the country before the COD date.




                                            38
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


None




                                    39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Project Appraisal Document: Uganda Power Sector Development Operation dated
    March 29, 2007 (Report No: 36644-UG)

   Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

   Project Progress Reports.

   Environmental Management reports including Impact Assessment reports (EIAs),
    Abbreviated Resettlement Action plans (ARAPs)

   Project Audit reports and Interim Financial reports

   Performance of the Uganda Power Sectors reports (2007,2008,2009,2010,2011)

   The Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) of the Power Sector reforms in
    Uganda

   Uganda Power Sector Investment Plan

   Energy Efficiency Reports (Audits and Investment)

   Borrower‟s Project Completion Report




                                            40
