Document of                  'f I        CO Y
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3236a-IVC
IVORY COAST
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAI REPORT
July 7, 1981
Urban Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only ln the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                      -      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                            -      CFAF 250
CFAF l million                     -      US$4,000
Fiscal Year:  GOIC                 -      January 1 - December 31
Fiscal Year:  SOTRA                -      October 1 - September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                        -      3.28 feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km)      2            -      0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )           -      0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 metric ton (m ton)               -      2,204 pounds (lbs)
1 hectare (ha)   2                 -      2.47 acres
l square meter (m )                -      10.76 square feet
1 liter (1)                        -      0.26  US gallons
l cubic meter (m )                 -      264 US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCET       -    Bureau Central d'Etudes Techniques
CAA        -    Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CIDA       -    Canadian International Development Agency
DCM        -    Direction Centrale des Marchés
DCTP       -    Direction Centrale des Travaux Publics
DCTT       -    Direction Centrale des Transports Terrestres
DCU        -    Direction Centrale de l'Urbanisme
DDR        -    Direction du Développement Régional
DGAT       -    Direction Générale de l'Administration du Territoire
DGTX       -    Direction des Grands Travaux
DRCU       -    Direction Régionale de la Construction et de l'Urbanisme
DRTP       -    Direction Régionale des Travaux Publics
EECI       -    Energie et Electricité de la Côte d'Ivoire
ENSTP      -    Ecole Nationale des Travaux Publics
MCU        -    Ministère de la Construction et de l'Urbanisme
MPWT       -    Ministère des Travaux Publics et des Transports
OSÈR       -    Office pour la Sécurité Routière
RAN        -    Régie Abidjan-Niger
SODECI     -    Société des Eaux de la Côte d'Ivoire
SOTRA      -    Société des Transports Abidjanais
URS        -    Service Urbain Ferroviaire



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT ................................................    l
A. Urban Setting.                                                                   1
B. Abidjan.                                                                        2
C. The Secondary Cities.                                                           4
D. Managing Urban Growth.                                                          4
E.    The First Urban Project
and Bank Group Assistance.                                               7
F. Project Rationale.                                                              8
II. THE PROJECT ....................................................                    9
A. Objectives..                                                                     9
B.  Main Features .........................                                       il
C.    Detailed Features:   Urban Transport  .......................   12
D.   Detailed Features:   Secondary Cities Program ....                ..........   17
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ......................   20
A.    Cost Estimates  ............................................   20
B.    Financial Arrangements ....................................   21
C.    Procurement  ...............................................   23
D.   Disbursements .............................................   23
IV. IMANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ..................................   26
A.   Status of Project Preparation ......................                         26
B3.   Execution .................................7
C.    Implementation .         ...........................................    29
1).   Supervision and Monitoring  ..........................                      32
E.    Financial Management and Audits .......................                     33
This report is based on the findings and recommendations of an appraisal
mission of June 1980 composed of Messrs. C. Delapierre (Chief of Mission),
F. Jakob, D. Jones and P. Midgley, assisted by consultants J-F. Allouche,
D. Colston and G. Harter. Ms. Tager participated in the report writing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V. THE BUS COMPANY:  SOTRA .............. .............................    34
A.   Organization ........ .    ....................................    34
B.   Financial Position.»          . .................... .             35
C.   The Immediate Action Plan .... ................. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
D.   Medium Term Strategy . ......         ............ ...... . . . . .    41
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ............................................      42
A.   General ......................................o.......................    42
B.   Transport .........              ..................   ...    43
C.   Secondary Cities Program .... ......... ... ................ .    50
VII* RECOMMENDATIONS . * ....................... .......................    51
ANNEXES
1.   Technical Assistance
2.   SOTRA:  Financial Forecasts
3.   Selected Documents and Data
4.   Detailed Cost Estimates
CHARTS
1.   Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
2.   Ministry of Construction and Urbanism
3.   Ministry of Interior
4.   Project Implementation
MAPS
15081     Ivory Coast:  Population Distribution
15082     Abidjan:  Location of Project Components
15339     Abidjan:  Traffic Improvement Measures:  Adjame
15340     Abidjan:  Traffie Improvement Measures:  Treichville, Marcory, Koumassi
15084     Daloa:  Location of Project Components
15085     Korhogo:  Location of Project Components



IVORY COAST
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. THE URBAN SETTING
Urban Sector Growth
1.01      The Ivory Coast has the third largest urban population in West
Africa, with an estimated 3.1 million urban residents out of a total 1980
population of 8.1 million. It is also one of the region's most urbanized
countries (38%). The country's urban sector has been marked by rapid growth,
about 8.4% p.a., more than double that of the population as a whole and
over three times as fast as the rural population. This figure masks a broad
spectrum of growth rates and regional disparities in incomes. From 1965-75,
Abidjan sustained an average growth rate of about 10% p.a., totalling 990,000
inhabitants at the end of the period. By 1980, the population had nearly
doubled, reaching an estimated 1.7 million. Should Abidjan continue to grow
at 7% per annum, which is a conservative estimate, it would reach 3.4 million
inhabitants by 1990, or 54% of the total urban population.
1.02      Growth in the secondary cities is both rapid and highly skewed.
These cities are expanding at an overall rate of 6.5% annually.  San Pedro,
the country's second port, is growing at 11.6%; Bouake, the country's second
largest city is growing at 8% and has an estimated 1980 population of
280,000. Growth in other secondary cities such as Daloa (83,000) and Korhogo
(70,000), though somewhat slower (6% and 10% respectively) is still more than
double the national growth rate.
1.03      Migration, which accounts for over half of the overall urban growth
rate has come to play a major rolc in the evolution of the urban sector. This
migration, coming from both within the country and the neighboring West
African countries, is primarily a consequence of a robust record of economic
growth. Abidjan's growth in particular is heavily influenced by considerable
in-flows of population, accounting for 6.4% per year and reflecting its
historic role as a colonial administrative center and subsequently the
country's political and economic capital. More critically, growth of and
migration to Abidjan is significantly influenced by government policies,
especially those related to the regional allocation of investment and its
sources of finance. For example Abidjan accounted for 25% of the total
1975 investment of $310 million, the central region (Bouake/Yamoussoukro) 40%,
and the remaining poorer regions, 35%. With Abidjan and Bouake/Yamoussoukro
accounting for 40% of total population, per capita government investment in
Abidjan and Bouake/Yamoussoukro was four times as high as in the remaining
regions. This pattern of investment has heavily reinforced the gap between
the resource rich south and the impoverished northern region of the country.



- 2 -
1.04      There are no signs that growth in the urban sector will slow
significantly over the coming decades. Indeed, current forecasts based on
a gradual braking of growth rates place the Ivory Coast's total population
at 20 million by the year 2000. Under this scenario and without a major
turn around in Government regional investment policies, over 90% of the
total population would be concentrated in the southern half of the country
by the year 2000. The urban share would be at least 60% of the total popula-
tion and about 60% of the urban population, or 7 million inhabitants, would be
concentrated in Abidjan.
Employment, Income and Poverty
1.05      Recent employment data are scarce and generally unreliable.
Nevertheless we are able to sketch a broad employment picture and one which
is not encouraging over the longer term. According to a 1973-74 Bank/ILO
study on employment in the Ivory Coast, unemployment in Abidjan was 20% in
1970. Since the population growth rate has held steady at 10% during the
1970s, there is good reason to believe that the level of unemployment is much
higher at the present time. Again, while data is sparse in the secondary
cities, unemployment is likely to be much greater than in Abidjan.
1.06      The share of formal employment in Abidjan is about 50%, and is
substantially smaller in the secondary cities where agriculture and petty
trade and commerce are the predominant activities. The legal minimum monthly
wage (SMIG) for activities other than agriculture is currently fixed at $118
per month ($1,410 per year). A large number of informal sector workers
however have earnings below the SMIG. A 1978 survey estimated that the
average monthly income of an African household was about $265 in Abidjan
and about $235 in the secondary cities.
1.07      The relative urban poverty threshold in 1979 was defined at $410
per capita per year in Abidjan.  An estimated 350,000 (or 23%) of a population
of 1.5 million in 1979 was estimated to be below this threshold in Abidjan.
Again, because of the dearth of data on the secondary cities, we can only
surmise that the share is considerably larger.
B. ABIDJAN
1.08      Against a background of heavy investment and economic prosperity,
Abidj2n-s growth has been especially rapi§.  The urbanized area measured   2
36 km  in 1965.  By 1975 it reached 80 km  and by 1980 it had topped 120 km
The average net residential density rose from 210 persons/ha in 1965 to
235 persons/ha in 1975 and is now estimated to reach 260 persons/ha in the
older and low/middle income areas and 1,000 persons/ha in some squatter areas.
During the last decade two important growth areas have emerged: (i) Abobo, a
poorly planned and largely unserviced low-income area located in the north,
housing over 300,000 inhabitants; (ii) the Banco Plateau, a planned extension
area in the west with a current population of about 350,000 and an expected
long-term population of about one million persons.



- 3 -
1.09      Abidjan's explosive and steady growth has largely outgrown it-s
network of infrastructure and services and has overwhelmed the city's capacity
to keep up with the sprawl. The added problem of serrated coastal topography
has made the delivery of public services and especially urban transport,
particularly difficult. Of more serious concern, however, is a legacy of
Governtaent policies for urban development which have favored high technical
standards in both Abidjan and the secondary cities have tended to exclude the
poorer segment of the population, since services are either provided at costs
far be,ond their means or simply not provided at all. In Abidjan, the absence
of street maintenance and the poor stormwater drainage have seriously eroded
the road network in several areas. Vehicular access is now often impossible
into many of these roads, further reducing effectiveness and adequacy of the
service delivery. Moreover, the deterioration of environmental conditions is
causing serious public health concerns, triggered by the absence of garbage
collection and an inadequate supply of potable water.
1.10      Public transport, whose major clients are among the city's urban
poor, has lagged far behind demand. Provision of adequate transport infra-
structure has been sorely constrained by topographical features. The main
transport routes cross into the Central Business District (Plateau). Key
movements such as those linking the residential areas of Abobo, the Banco
Plateau and Adjame with the Petit Bassam Island (the main employment center)
and the port, are only possible through the Plateau area and the two bridges
crossing the Ebrie laguna, thus producing heavy traffic congestion in the
downtown area. With the population and motorization rates growing steadily
during recent years, traffic congestion, however, is now common to all parts
of the city and is beginning to have a negative effect on the Ivorian economy.
Transport Characteristics
1.11      Walking is an important mode of transport in Abidjan.  About half
of the residents trips are made on foot. Motorized transport is provided
by buses, taxis, water coaches and cars. In 1977, there were about 48,700
cars in Abidjan. There are about 720 buses and 320 mini-buses in Abidjan,
operated by SOTRA, the monopolistic, state-owned bus company. City taxis
in running condition amount to about 2,500 units. Trips made by SOTRA buses
represent about 46-48% of total motorized trips which were estimated at 1.24
per day per inhabitant in 1979. More than half the motorized trips are used
for commuting. A detailed study on a gravitating model made in 1978 demon-
strated that between one third and one fourth of car or bus trips are
generated by the Petit Bassam Island. The average length of a one way trip is
about 7 km. Transportation by water coach represents 1% of the trips under-
taken daily.
1.12      The transportation situation in the neighborhoods that the proposed
project will address is chaotic. Around the Treichville, Adjame and Koumassi
central markets, buses, cars, taxis and parked cars compete against each other
and with the overflow of pedestrians, customers and merchants who have set
up shLop in the extremely narrow footpath areas. Lack of road markings and
traffic lights cause severe traffic congestion often lasting 12 hours per day.
Apart: from the 10 km of reserved bus lanes created under the first urban
project, mass transit vehicles have no priority. Bus routes have been estab-
lished by SOTRA without taking road congestion into consideration, bus stops
are on the street, increasing traffic congestion and causing safety hazards.



- 4 -
C. THE SECONDARY CITIES
1.13      For years the Ivory Coast has advocated a policy of deconcentration
of resources away from the capital city, but the bias towards investment in
Abidjan has prevailed. The secondary cities themselves are weak instruments
for the implementation of broad programs, lacking human and financial resources
as well as the institutional structures needed to plan and guide economie
growth. Development programs in the urban sector come exclusively under the
control of Central Government's urban planning services. Local political
authorities have little influence in the design and implementation of urban
policy, and in any case, qualified staff are in short supply. Local budget
resources are also limited, if any exist at all. Investment capacity is
negligible as demonstrated by the 1976-81 Five Year Investment Program in
which local participation was only 0.4%. Over 50% of local income is derived
from market taxes, the remaining 50% coming from various taxes and service
charges such as the garbage collection taxes, street cleaning taxes, etc.
Without adequate resources, local service activities are in many cases
deficient or limited to maintenance of the secondary street network, parks and
gardens and garbage collection. Most other vital services are simply not
provided.
1.14      The weakness of local authorities is of growing concern as most
of these secondary centers begin to experience rapid growth. The absorptive
capacity of these cities is limited: employment is dominated by agricultural
and service activities and industrial employment is often very small.
Immediate growth prospects in employment are therefore not encouraging.
Without an adequate planning framework to guide growth, population densities
have tended to remain low and incipient sprawl is evident. In some towns,
squatting is beginning to emerge as a serious problem. Limited planning and
implementation capacity at the local level will prove the most difficult
hurdle to overcome in defining appropriate solutions for these cities.
D. MANAGING URBAN GROWTH
1.15      As the Government enters a new decade and plans for growth to
the year 2000, it intends to remedy the investment disparities between the
secondary cities and Abidjan. A well-balanced regional development policy is
being formulated with a clearly defined strategy of assistance to the secondary
cities. Nevertheless, the fundamental importance of Abidjan to the country's
economy and, indeed to the West Africa region will not diminish, and invest-
ments in the capital will therefore continue.
1.16      Following upon these themes, the Government's 1979-80 investment
program for the urban sector amounted to US$250 million in 1979, about half
of which was to be spent in Abidjan. Estimated outlays for 1980-81 and
the coming years will be about the same (see Table 1.1 below). The urban
sector-s share has represented between 12-15% of total Goverument expenditures
during recent years. The total national investment ceiling proposed by the
IMF and the Bank for 1980-81 is about $1.7 billion per year of which $1.1
billion for external borrowings. Based on this ceiling, the optimal amount



- 5 -
IVORY COAST
Second Urban Project
Table 1.1
Forecast of Investments in the
Urban Sector for the Period 1981-1984
(CFAF millions)
Annual Commitments                  1984           Source of
Authorized       Soref
1981         1982         1983          Programs        Financing
I.   URBAN ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE
Banco Bridge                                                                         15,300           SFEDTP
Western By-pass (URB 2)                      300        1,000        1,200            1,500           IBRD
Banco Primary Road Network (URB 2)                      1,000        1,000            1,500           IBRD
Bingerville Road                           1,500                                                      EJL
Reboul Pass                                             1,500
Dcubling of Houphouet Boigny Bridge                     1,000        3,000            3,000
Agban-Indenie Link                         1,000        2,000        2,000                            SPIE
Riviera Road Network                                    2,000        2,000            1,700           SOFRATP
de Gaulle-VGE-Marseille Blvd.                           2,500        2,000                            EJL
Blvd. Latrille                             1,200        2,500        2,800                            EJL
Chardy Junction                                                      2,000
Abobo Sud - Djibi Road Link                                                           1,700
NLarcory - Koumassi Road Link                                                         5,000
Secondary Cities Road Network
Bouake, Gagnoa, Daloa, Bonoua         4,100         5,000        5,000            5,000           Colas-SOFRATP
Sub-total,1               8,100      18,500       21,000            35,700
II.  PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
Traffic Improvements (URB 2)                 200        3,000        3,000            3,000           IBRD
URS'Scudies (URB 2)                                       300          300              300           IBRD-CIDA
SOTRA Bus Depot (URB 2)                                   400          400                            IBRD
SOTRA Investment                                                                     20,000           BNP-CCCE-Customa
SOTRA Deficit (with fare increase)        8,500         9,900       11,000           12,200
Bouake                                                                                3,300
Sub-total II,            8,7-00       13,600       14,700           38,800
III.  URBANISM
A:idjan (URB 1)                            3,500        3,500                                         IBRD - USAID - FSH
Abidjan                                                              3,500            3,500
Secondary Cities (URB 2)                     lCO        1,700        1,700              600           IBRD
Secondary Cities                                        2,000        3,000            3,000           USAID
Secondary Cities                                                     3,500            3,500
Community Facilities (URB 1)               1,200                                                      IBRD
Community Facilities                                    2,000        2,000            2,000
Sub-total III            4,800         9,200      13,700            12,600
IV.  CONSTRUCTION
Abidjan Government office buildings    10,500                                                          Thinet
Abidjan Housing                           10,000       10,000        5,000                             Sehnaoui-Charbine-
Najjar
Interior                                   5,000       5,000        5,000             5,000           FSH
Sub-total IV            25,500       15,000       10,000             5,000
V.  SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE
Abidjan                                    2,500        8,000       11,000           14,000           IBRD
Interior                                                1,000        1,500            2,000           IBRD
Sub-total V               2,500        9,000      12,500            16,000
VI. WATER SUPPLY
Villages                                   2,400        7,300        2,700            4,7)0            CCCE-Entente-CEAO
Cities                                     8,300        4,200       11,600            7,000           IBRD - KFW
Sub-total VI             10,700       11,500       14,300           11,700
GRAND TOTAL              60,300       76,800       85,600          119,800



- 6 -
for investment in the urban sector should vary between $200 and $250 million
per year, which appears to be a reasonable measure of the present absorptive
capacity of MPWT and MCU, the main implementing agencies for these programs.
Sectorally, 25% of the funds would go into urban transport, 55% to shelter,
water and sewerage, and the remainder to other urban services.
1.17      Investment in Abidjan has been shaped by the Ten Year Development
Study for the Abidjan Region, financed under the 1976 First Urban Project.
The principal objective of the Ten Year Development Study was to prepare a
medium term financing plan which would adequately reflect the country's
economic prospects and a conviction that investment in Abidjan could not
continue as it had in the past. Based on the recommendations of this study,
Government endorsed the following strategy for Abidjan's development:
(a)  a shift away from a purely sectoral investment approach towards
one which considers sectoral interrelationships and improves
interministerial coordination and planning;
(b) greater attention to the phasing of projects to closely match
demand and avoid over-investment;
(c) planned fiscal management of the city. In the near future,
recurrent costs of the present/planned investments will
require a considerable maintenance budget, necessitating
effective taxation and cost recovery systems.
1.18      As for investment in infrastructure and services in Abidjan,
Government would focus on the provision of urban transport, water supply,
sewerage and shelter for the older underserviced areas and the newer expansion
zones. Shelter needs of households earning less than the median income in
Abidjan (about $315 per month in 1980) would be addressed through upgrading of
selected squatter and low-income areas and the development of some rental
housing. It is expected that standards will be affordable to the benefi-
ciaries without significant subsidies.
1.19      In the field of urban transport, Government plans to make more
efficient use of existing infrastructure and transport systems, with special
emphasis on bus systems. A recent study with a 1990 horizon shows that
it will be impossible to maintain the present level of services, even with
a comprehensive urban road program. It is therefore proposed to limit the
demand for private transportation by developing and/or improving the bus
system, enforcing parking regulations in the Plateau. It is also proposed
to improve the use of the existing capacity of the street network through
traffic management programs to improve junctions, traffic lights, road
signals and busways. These policy issues are being addressed in the First
Urban Project with a commendable degree of success.



1.20      To achieve the objective of more balanced regional investment,
Government intends to provide the necessary infrastructure and an adequate
level of amenities which would attract industries and skilled and semi-skilled
labor to the secondary cities. Wherever possible, improvements in urban
infrastructure would be linked to the modernization of agriculture, especially
around smaller towns. Because of Government's financial and implementation
capac:ity, the approach to the secondary cities program is intended to be
selective, concentrating on those cities with the strongest growth potential
and tlne capacity to absorb and utilize funds effectively.
E. THE FIRST URBAN PROJECT AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE
1.21      The Bank Group has supported the Government's development policy
objectives through its lending program and continuing policy dialogue in
the urban sector and related fields. Other projects besides the First
Urban Project include the First and Second Sewerage and Drainage Projects,
the Secondary Centers Water Supply Project, the First and Second Artisans
Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Projects, the First and Second Tourism
Projects, and the Second Water Supply Project which is under preparation.
1.22      The First Urban Project (Loans 1347/1348T) -  a joint undertaking
of the Bank, USAID and the Ivory Coast -- was approved in December 1976.
Its main objectives were:
(a)  to finance transport and shelter infrastructure programs
in Abidjan in support of Government policies to improve
access to urban services for low-income groups;
(b)  to introduce new policies and provide technical assistance
to strengthen the institutions charged with implementing
these programs;
(c)  to provide on-going planning and programming capabilities
to permit evaluation of investment plans and priorities.
1.23      The urban transport component which is the major project element,
is virtually completed and has had a positive impact on transport policy
investment in Abidjan. In contrast to over investment in roads in previous
years, the project period was marked by a reduction in road construction
and a shift towards traffic management programs including traffic lights
and parking regulations, to alleviate congestion. Greater attention has
also been paid to public transport. Under the project, the first reserve
bus lanes in sub-Saharan Africa were installed in 1979 and initial indica-
tions are that they are significantly improving bus operations in the area
concerned. On the institution building side, a Traffic Bureau was created
in 1977 to develop new policies for public transportation by bus and to
restrain the use of private cars, in particular, to regulate parking.
The Bureau has met with considerable success and its work has provided the
basis for the proposed second project.



- 8 -
1.24      Progress on the shelter side has been slow and is a major reason
for the limited investment in shelter under the second project. Execution of
upgrading work has been delayed for almost two years. Implementing decrees
required to execute the upgrading operations have been approved by the Council
of Ministers in October 1980, and work started early 1981.
1.25      On the positive side, the shelter component has had some beneficial
impacts in policy terms. First, as a result of the on-going dialogue with
the Bank, the Government appears to be more sensitized to the need to improve
access to services to the poorest segment of the urban population without
substantial increases in subsidies. Second, criteria for plot allocation
were modified to allow foreigners and the Ivorian poor to acquire security
of tenure through long leaseholds (Arrêté dated July 1976). Third, legislation
allowing cost recovery in upgrading and low-income housing areas was passed in
1977 and ratified in 1979. In short, a policy framework now exists in which
a more foeussed dialogue with Government on shelter policy and programs
should be intensified.
1.26      Tax recording in Ivory Coast is traditionally very weak, mainly
because of an inappropriately designed, over-complicated tax system. Moreover,
the tax administration is not well managed and lacks adequate means of support.
A study was financed under the Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project
(Loan 1577 IVC) on ways of improving tax collection, on which cost recovery
for most of the shelter project is based. Lack of effective coordination
between involved authorities, however, has hindered the study from being
carried out expediently. In order to assist Government speed up study prepara-
tion, a preliminary study was carried out by a Bank consultant in September
1980, who recommended various actions which would simplify and improve tax
collection, such as computerization.  His conclusions and recommendations have
been discussed with Government in March 1981 and actions to constitute a first
step are expected shortly.
F. PROJECT RATIONALE
1.27      The second urban development project will address public transport
problems in Abidjan (building on the urban transport component of the first
project) and urban management problems of the secondary cities in line with
Government policy of regional growth and development of rural areas. The
focus on urban transport and the exclusion of a shelter component in Abidjan
under this project is a direct result of lessons learned from the first
project: on the one hand, despite continued efforts to introduce new concepts,
the Government has not yet progressed very far with the first project and the
establishment of a definitive housing policy for the coming decade lies in the
future. Therefore, financing of a further shelter component in either Abidjan
or the secondary cities would at present be highly risky. However, the
dialogue with Government officials should be pursued, and the proposed project,
through studies and pilot programs, would establish permanent contacts and
prepare the way for a third project focussing on secondary cities. On the
other hand, the urban transport component has moved rapidly and significant
advances in policy are evident. The time is therefore ripe to proceed with a
second operation to consolidate and expand on progress made in the Abidjan
transport sector during the first project.



- 9 -
1.28      The scope, scale, and pilot nature of the secondary cities component
is dictated by the absence of sound pre-investment studies and implementation
capacity in these towns. The criteria used in selecting the three secondary
cities included in the project were size, economic potential, financial base,
and diversity of problems. The cities include: Bouake, the second largest
urban area in the Ivory Coast; Daloa, the third largest; and Korhogo, the
fourth largest. However, so that the proposed project may conform with
Government policy for a more balanced regional growth, it focuses on the two
latter cities, whereas for Bouake, which is located in the area which most
benefitted from public investment in recent years (para 1.03), the project
would be limited to a study on public transportation. The secondary cities
component would stress institution building and pre-investment studies together
with pilot schemes to test new shelter solutions, as well as the capacity
and capabilities of the local authorities to respond to the needs of their
constituents.
Il. THE PROJECT
A. OBJECTIVES
2.D1      The project to be implemented during 1981-85, has two main objec-
tives:
(a) to develop the public transport system throughout Abidjan and to
improve circulation within low income areas outside the Central
Business District (Plateau); and
(b) to support the Government's policy of regional development
through initiating investment studies for the development of
secondary cities and f-nancing pilot programs in two of these
cities: Daloa and Korhogo.
Urban Transport in Abidjan
2.02      The basic principles adopted in project design have been derived
from the lessons learned under the first project and include the following:
(a) investment in urban transport infrastructure should be limited
exclusively to traffic management measures designed to make
more effective use of the existing road network;
(b) priority should be given to measures which will improve bus
operations within, or extend service to low income areas;
(c) road construction should be considered only when specific links
in the road network, especially the bus network, are missing
or when special facilities for buses are required;



- 10 -
(d) special attention should be given to the needs of pedestrians,
especially within low income areas; and
(e)  priority should be given to training in traffic management.
2.03      Emphasis on traffic management measures in project design has not
only deferred major investments in urban transport but has also resulted in a
reduction in design standards. Overall reductions in investments for the
period 1981-84 were in the order of US$135 million, of which US$120 million
are due to deferred infrastructure projects, and US$12 million as a result
of reduced design standards of project components.
Secondary Cities Program
2.04      Preparation of an extensive secondary cities component has been
difficult primarily because of lack of experience on the part of the Ivorian
authorities in determining appropriate investment programs for these areas
and the complicated implementing arrangements required for such a component.
Effective local authorities are almost non-existent in the Ivory Coast. In
November 1980 municipal elections took place and local authorities have been
progressively operational from early 1981. In order for both Government
and the Bank to develop an appropriate secondary cities investment strategy,
it was agreed that the scope of the secondary cities component be limited to
the financing of a pre-investment programming study coupled with the develop-
ment of municipal services and pilot programs in Daloa and Korhogo. To
maintain risks at an acceptable level, the volume of works to be executed in
Korhogo ($3.8 million) 1/ is significantly smaller than in Daloa ($7.0 mil-
lion) 1/ where the project will take advantage of already existing services.
Technical assistance will also be provided to (a) monitor these pilot programs,
(b) assist in defining appropriate investment strategies and packages, and (c)
develop management capabilities within local agencies. The results of the
investment program under (d) above will form the basis for a possible third
urban project focussing on secondary cities and smaller towns.
_/   Total costs including contingencies.



- il -
B. MAIN FEATURES
2.05      Main project items and their costs are summarized below (see
detailed cost estimates in Annex 4).
Base Cost         % of
US$ million      Base Cost
I.   Urban Transport in Abidjan                  61.6             83
(a) Public Transport Improvement
Measures                         (39.3)           (53)
(b)  Traffic Management Measures    (14.2)             (19)
(c)  Technical Assistance              (8.1)           (11)
tI.   Secondary Cities                             12.6             17
TOTAL BASE COST             74.2            100
CONTINGENCIES               29.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST         104.0
2.06      The urban transport component comprises the following:
(a) Introduction of a high speed express bus network through the
construction of a new road link (Parc-a-Bois Road) and the
reconstruction and improvement of the Western Bypass incor-
porating bus priority facilities and a main sewer (US$18.4
million);
(b) Improvement of bus operations throughout Abidjan through
upgrading of bus terminals and bus stops (US$5.4 million) and
the construction of a bus depot (US$3.3 million);
(c) Improvement of public transport access to the Banco low
income development areas through the construction of primary
roads complementing the existing network and linking with the
boat lines operated by SOTRA (US$12.2 million);
(d) Introduction of traffic management measures to improve
circulation for pedestrians and buses in four high density
low income communities--Treichville, Marcory, Koumassi and
Adjame (US$7.1 million);
(e) Improvement of facilities for pedestrians including the
construction of footbridges and the surfacing of footpaths
(US$1.5 million);



- 12 -
(f)  Continuation of traffic management programs within the CBD
and the extension of these programs throughout the city to
alleviate congestion and reduce accidents and introduction of
road maintenance programs throughout the city, including provision
of small equipment (US$5.6 million); and
(g)  Provision of technical assistance in traffic training management,
road safety and public transport management (US$5.6 million) and
in undertaking additional studies including detailed engineering for
the proposed urban rail service (URS) (US$2.5 million).
Main Features: Secondary Cities Program
2.07      The secondary cities program comprises the following:
(a)  Pilot improvement programs in Daloa and Korhogo including
street improvements, the construction of access roads to
various neighborhoods, the paving of market areas and the
construction of small open markets, small community facili-
ties and repairs to some primary schools (US$7.4 million);
(b)  Provision of equipment necessary to improve the delivery of
municipal services in both cities (US$2.4 million);
(c)  Provision of technical assistance to monitor the pilot
programs and to improve municipal management (US$0.8 million);
(d)  Provision of technical assistance to carry out (i) a pre-
investment study for other secondary cities based upon the
experiences of the pilot programs in Daloa and Korhogo and
(ii) to update the land title register in Daloa (US$1.5 million);
and
(e) Provision of technical assistance to the Central Government
for project monitoring (US$0.5 million).
C. DETAILED FEATURES: URBAN TRANSPORT
2.08      Express Bus Network.  A network of high speed non-stop bus routes
will be developed in Abidjan, linking the peripheral high density low income
communities of Abobo, to the north, and the Banco, to the west, with the major
employment zones in Petit Bassam island. The express bus network will make
use of existing freeways to reach Adjame north of the CBD--the East West
Highway (financed under the first project) linking the Banco to Adjame; and
the Abobo Expressway linking Abobo to Adjame--and the Western Bypass from
Adjame to the Houphouet Boigny bridge will be improved and reconstructed to
enable express buses to avoid the CBD and congestion within it. The recon-
struction of the Western Bypass will be carried out within existing rights of
way and will include widening to accommodate six lanes (of which two would be
reserved for exclusive bus use) over a total length of 2.9 km, as well as
construction of an incorporated main sewer section. A further 2.6 km of



- 13 -
new road (Parc-a-Bois Road) will be constructed to link the improved Western
Bypass to the East West Highway. Work will include signalization and road
marking. Access control facilities will be provided at the approaches to the
Houphouet Boigny Bridge to provide priority for buses.
2.09      Improvement of Bus Operations.  A variety of measures are proposed
to improve conditions for buses and bus riders at stops, terminals and
stations. About 20 bus laybys will be constructed along trunk bus routes to
proviide adequate access for buses to bus stops. Passenger waiting areas at
these stops and at a further 80 other sites will be improved by surfacing
footways and by providing bus shelters and pedestrian barriers. Similar
facilities will be provided at 25 bus terminals. The carriageway will be
strengthened at bus stops not provided with laybys and bus only access roads
will be constructed at the most important bus terminals. Pedestrian under-
passes will be constructed at the Agban interchange station to link the bus
station with the adjacent railway station, the inter city bus station and the
Adjame market complex. A new bus depot will be constructed to accommodate 180
buses. This depot is needed to cater for the bus fleet increase under the
already committed 1980/81 program. It will be located to substantially
improve the Abobo-Petit Bassam express bus system.
2.10      Banco Primary Road Network.  Some 8.8 km of roads will be constructed
within the Banco development area to provide access for buses to low income
communities living within the area and to cater to the expansion of the
development area from 300,000 people to 600,000 people over the next five
years. Although primarily designed and located for bus access, these roads
wil:L serve general traffic needs but will be constructed under the project to
half the ultimate, general traffic, design standard (dual two lanes with hard
shoulders). Each penetration road serves a specific area and together they
form a comprehensive network. The principal link in this network will be the
3.2 km section of road linking Yopougon-Attie East to the East West Highway
which will provide access to the Banco for express buses, the 5.1 km section
linking the new SOTRA boat terminal at Abobo-Doume with Yopougon-Attie East,
and the 0.5 km section linking tUc Anyama to the Dabou Road.
2.11      Traffic Management Measures.  Traffic management measures will be
introduced in four high density low income areas--Treichville, Marcory,
Koumassi and Adjame. These measures are designed to improve circulation for
pedestrians, buses and municipal service vehicles and to improve access to and
conditions around the major market complexes in these areas and will include:
(a) The surfacing of footpaths and the construction of footways;
(b) The paving to simple design standards of roads to allow bus access;
(c) Traffic control measures (traffic signs, lane markings, pedestrian
crossings, etc.); and
(d) junction improvements and setting of traffic signals.



- 14 -
2.12      Treichville is a high density residential community of around
115,000 people and contains one of Abidjan's major market complexes and
commercial areas. Traffic congestion along the commercial axis (12th street)
and around the market complex causes delays to buses throughout all working
day. The market has expanded on to the surrounding footpaths forcing pedes-
trians on to the carriageway. The traffic management measures proposed for
Treichville will restrict access to the 12th Street for cars and delivery
vehicles, thereby reducing congestion and providing sufficient capacity for
buses and pedestrians. Delivery will be permitted at off peak hours and
vehicular access to the area would be improved by channeling traffic flow to
streets parallel to 12th street.
2.13      Marcory and Koumassi are low income residential communities of
around 240,000 people. Koumassi contains a major market and is subject to
flooding during heavy rains. A basic network of asphalt roads will be
provided in both areas for buses and refuse collection vehicles. In Koumassi
some 2.8 km of raised pedestrian footways will be constructed to provide
minimum all weather access roads to the market and the road network around the
market will be equipped with traffic control measures and traffic signals to
reduce congestion, avoid accidents, and improve bus flows.
2.14      Adjame is a high density low income residential area containing a
major market complex, workshops, a bus interchange station (country
buses and city buses) and important gbaka (informal minibus) station. The
area is crossed by the main road, Nangui Abrogoua, linking the Plateau with
Abobo. Traffic conditions along this axis are generally chaotic throughout
the day, in part due to the activity around the market complex which flanks
this road, and pedestrians are forced to use the carriageway by the extension
of market activities into the footpaths. A one way traffic system will
be introduced to the area making Nangui Abrogoua one way southbound with
northbound flows using Avenue 13, which runs parallel to it. A two way two
lane exclusive busway will be constructed within the right-of-way of Nangui
Abrogoua to provide priority for buses and 16 junctions will be channelized
and equipped with traffic lights to provide priority for buses, provide safe
crossing points for pedestrians and improve traffie flow.  Footpaths and
footways will be widened and surfaced.
2.15      Pedestrian Improvements will be implemented in and around low
income areas not included within the traffic management schemes. The measures
include the surfacing of footpaths, the construction of steps where pedestrians
cross steep sided valleys, the provision of pedestrian footbridges across
heavily trafficked roads and also across streams and small river courses, the
construction of footpaths on raised embankments in areas prone to flooding and
the provision of street lighting along heavily used footpaths and at pedestrian
crossing points.
2.16      Annual Traffic Management Programs, small in size, but complementary
to those measures undertaken in para. 2.11 above, will be continued within the
CBD and extended throughout the city in areas not covered by the project.
These programs were initiated under the first project and include traffie
control measures, junction improvements and traffic signals at localized or



- 15 -
isolated congestion points. They also concern the continuous monitoring of
such measures and the modification or redesign of mesasures in the light of
resultant traffic behavior. These programs will cover the 1982-85 period and
actual schemes will be selected according to an agreed set of criteria such
as time savings to public transport passengers, frequency and severity of
accidents and costs.
2.17      Annual Road Maintenance Programs will be introduced throughout the
city and will include patching of carriageways, the maintenance of traffic
signals, traffic signs and carriageway markings. To date, maintenance of such
facilities has been undertaken on an  ad hoc  basis and has been limited to
the primary road network. The introduction of annual programs of preventive
maintenance will ensure the correct functioning of traffic control and other
traffic management measures throughout the city.
2.18      Technical Assistance will be provided in traffic management, road
safety and public transport management and in undertaking additional studies
including detailed engineering design for the surface urban rail service (URS).
(a)  Traffic Management Unit
Technical assistance totalling 140 person-months to the Traffic
Management Unit, which was set up under the first urban project
within the National Bureau of Technical Studies (BCET) will carry
out traffic planning feasibility studies, surveys and traffic
counts (see Annex 1). Automatic equipment for traffic counting
and survey vehicles are also included. The project will also study
the institutional and financial framework which will enable the
municipality of Bouake and, possibly, other major secondary cities,
to develop and run an appropriate public transport system. Studies
would more precisely define existing transport problems, forecast
future demands, and study feasible alternatives. Technical assist-
ance, totalling 100 person-months, to the Central Directorate of
Public Works (DCTP) in Abidjan would be provided to supervise the
construction of the Western Bypass, the construction of the primary
road network in the Banco area, and to supervise works to be carried
out in relation to the traffie management measures and annual
improvement program. DCTP will also supervise annual maintenance
programs.  Each technical assistant will have an Ivorian counter-
part and the Ivorianization program will be strengthened with the
objective of phasing out technical posts by the end of 1985. The
technical assistance component would include 42 person-months to
develop training programs for Ivorian engineers and urban planners
in the National School for Public Works (ENSTP) at Yamoussoukro.
Tentative curricula were submitted to the Bank.



- 16 -
(b) Road Safety Agency (OSER)
The number of road accidents has considerably increased in Ivory
Coast over the last few years, primarily in Abidjan, where the rate
of increase is greater than elsewhere in the country. Government
is anxious to promote road safety and is preparing programs con-
cerning the education of road users, the enactment and enforce-
ment of road safety legislation and the promotion of safety
features on both roads and vehicles. To carry out such actions,
OSER was set up in 1979 under the responsibility of the Land
Transport Central Directorate (DCTT) of the MPWr. It presently
comprises one full time officer plus the part time assistance of
the Director of the DCTT and statistical support staff. Technical
assistance (1 man-month) is provided to OSER under the 1980
Highway Sector Loan for a driver training program. The proposed
project will provide more technical assistance (20 personrmonths)
to assist OSER in defining cost effective programs to reduce the
number of persons killed or injured in road accidents in Ivory
Coast, starting with Abidjan, Bouake, Daloa and Korhogo (see
details in Annex 1.12).
(c) Public Transport Management
The rapid growth of SOTRA and the diversification of the types of
services it offers has created a need for a transport planning unit
to assist the management of the company in making the best use of
its available resources. The SOTRA established a team in July 1980
which will be responsible for carrying out a medium term operational
and financial strategy study and for advising management of the most
cost effective methods of deploying SOTRA's resources, fare revisions
and the coordination of SOTRA's services with other formal (urban
rail service) and informal (gbakas, intercity taxis, etc.) transport
modes (see Chapter V).  The project will finance abroad training
sessions as well as approximately 65 person-months of support
experts, assisted by Ivorian engineers, accountants and statistical
staff.
(d) The Urban Rail Service (URS)
In 1977 Governnent engaged consultants SOFRETU (Société française
d'etudes de transports urbains) to undertake feasibility studies
for an above-ground urban rail service (URS) for Abidjan along
the existing right-of-way of the Abidjan/Ouagadougou line. In
1978 the consultants proposed a metro system linking Abobo with
Treichville via a section in tunnel under the Voie Triomphale in
the Plateau. At Government's request, this proposal was modified
in 1979 to exclude the underground section and a second proposal
at grade, and avoiding the Plateau, was presented in May 1979.
Government is currently reviewing the revised project which is
estimated to cost about $150 million and would provide an above



- 17 -
ground mass rail transit system (17.3 km) along the major north-
south corridor of the city. The URS has been evaluated by con-
sultants SOFRETU in comparison with the express bus system
along the same axis and appeared to be more efficient. The
Governnent and the Bank, however, believed that more detailed
analyses of the URS operation were necessary before any decision
be taken. Studies which included (a) review of existing data
and documents (b) economic evaluation of the rail service versus
bus service, analysis of alternatives and levels of service,
were subsequently carried out by independent experts under
CIDA-financing. Study conclusions clearly indicated feasibility
of URS for the period after 1985. Financing of additional studies
including detailed engineering design has therefore been included
in the project. Moreover, it was agreed that the Government
would consult with the Bank on the viability, financing plans
and operation timing of the URS as well as of any other large
transportation project that could have a noticeable impact on
the project.
D. DETAILED FEATURES: SECONDARY CITIES PROGRAM
2.19      Pilot programs in Daloa
(a)  Improvement and repair of the existing streets in the Dioulabougou
neighborhood.   Dioulabougou is located in the center of Daloa and
shelters some 18,000 inhabitants. Because of the site's features,
the streets of Dioulabougou face severe erosion. The project will
provide the construction of a 600 m throughway to ensure better
links with the rest of the urban road network. In order to re-
establish acceptable conditions for access and building security and
to avoid possible fvture erosion, all downhill streets, totalling
2,600 m, will be trar.-.formed into pedestrian lanes, designed to
minimize the impact of water run-off.
(b)  Construction of an 800 m access road to the Huberson neighborhood.
Despite its convenient location to the city center, Huberson is one
of Daloa's poorest neighborhoods, mainly because of poor
accessibility and lack of public utilities. An 800 m access road
will be built. Construction of a water main will be provided under
the Bank's Second Water Supply project currently being prepared,
and which will be carried out at the same time as this project.
(c)  Construction of access roads to new housing areas. To alleviate
pressure on existing housing areas, new areas, totalling 2,950
plots, are to be opened by the municipality within the next two
years. The project will provide gravelled access roads of
3,100 m and 5,700 m respectively, for the Abattoir and the Northern
Extension areas.



- 18 -
(d) Paving of market areas.
Retail market taxes are one of Daloa's most important sources of
municipal income; their improvement and enlargement is therefore
of high economic importance and is likely to have a strong impact
on the municipality's revenues. Paving of 3.1 ha of existing
non-treated surfaces at the Orly and central markets will be
included in the project. Also included will be construction of a
new paved market place of 1.0 ha in the new Abattoir area.
2.20      Pilot programs in Korhogo
(a) Improvement and repair of existing streets in the city center.
The street network in Korhogo's central area is in extremely bad
condition, particularly around the Central Market. Besides, the
central area is poorly linked to the city's northern neighborhoods
which are isolated by a major ravine currently being channelled under
a project financed by the European Development Fund (FED). The
proposed project will provide for reconstruction of 2,100 m of
paved and gravelled roads.
(b) Paving of Central Market and country bus station. The Central
Market plays an important role as a regional economic center and
generates heavy passenger traffic, but operates under unsatisfactory
sanitary conditions. Funding is, therefore, provided for the paving
of both the market parking and the country bus station, covering
2.0 ha.
(c)  Construction of five neighborhood market areas.  Besides the Central
Market, there are several neighborhood markets which are poorly
accommodated and run under unsatisfactory sanitary conditions. The
project will provide funds for paving of five of these market areas,
totalling about 2.5 ha.
(d) Rehabilitation of community facilities. The proposed project will
include the rehabilitation of a small urban clinic to be accommodated
in a reconverted building of the former Central Hospital, repairing
and renovating existing primary schools, and construction of a
building for a social center.
Development of Municipal Services
2.21      Municipal services in both Daloa and Korhogo require major strengthen-
ing to enable them to meet their responsibilities. To achieve this objective,
the project will provide both municipalities with:
(a)  Technical Assistance totalling 60 person-months:
(i) To reorganize their technical departments, involving
assignment of responsibilities to individual services
within departments and appointment of middle-level
supervisors for specific activities;



- 19 -
(ii)  To train maintenance workers within the technical
departments. Training will focus on vehicle repair and
maintenance, use of tools, and programmed maintenance
procedures for drainage canals, public buildings and
other facilities;
(iii)  To supervise the pilot programs in liaison with the
Regional Directorate of Public Works (DRTP) in Daloa
and Korhogo;
(iv)  To improve collection of taxes and financial management,
an expert will spend one year in each municipality
reviewing revenue collection procedures including
assessment and rates, financial practices and budgetary
planning, and recommend possible changes in methods to be
implemented within the existing overalL policy framework;
and
(v) To strengthen the efficiency of the municipal finance
offices through the establishment of revised procedures for
land registry, plot allocation and developing a system of
collections for project beneficiaries.
(b) Purchase of equipment 1/ consisting of:
(i) One grader, one loader, one vibrating roller, two dump
trucks, a water tank truck, three garbage compactor or skip
trucks and one bulldozer, will be purchased for Daloa;
(ii)  One grader, one loader, one vibrating roller, one
tractable water tank, one truck and four vehicles, will
be purchased for Korhogo;
(iii)  Tools for  the technical departments of both cities.
These will include tools for vehicle repair, carpentry,
metal works and construction, and will be used by
personnel in on-the-job training programs;
(iv) Equipment for municipal finance offices, including furniture,
filing cabinets, typewriters, calculating machines, etc.
(c) Rehabilitation and expansion of the municipal garage for maintenance
vehicles in Daloa and construction of a new small garage in Korhogo.
(d) Purchase of materials. To allow the municipal services in both
cities to be run efficiently from the beginning, the project will
provide funds for purchases of cement, gravel, steel, fuel, spare
1/   Equipment would be purchased by the MPWT for the DRTP and given to the
municipalities. MPWT would also ensure maintenance (see para 4.05).



- 20 -
parts, and other necessary materials during the first two years.
Amounts allocated to the municipality of Korhogo will be propor-
tionally higher than those given to the municipality of Daloa, as
the latter already has a relatively well organized revenue system.
Pre-investment programming study
2.22      The objectives of the pre-investment programming study for secondary
cities will be to (a) establish a framework for a nationwide coherent urban
development strategy, and (b) prepare the ground for specific investments
within this framework. The study will also define investment criteria and
institutional arrangements for effective implementation. The development of
municipal services in Daloa and Korhogo and the monitoring of the pilot
programs in these cities will provide a practical basis for the investment
programming effort. The study will be carried out over a two-year period
(see detailed description in Annex 1).
Miscellaneous studies
2.23      To improve property tax collection and to strengthen municipal
finances in Daloa the project will provide for updating of the existing
land title register (cadastre).
Technical assistance to Central Directorate of Urbanism (DCU)
2.24      To assist the DCU in pursuing the monitoring of the first project,
to participate in the monitoring of the pilot programs and to supervise the
preparation of the pre-investment study, the project will provide technical
assistance totalling 35 person-months.
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. COST ESTIMATES
3.01      Total project costs amount to $104.0 million (CFAF 26,000 million)
of which $51.00 million (CFAF 12,800 million) or 48.8% are foreign exchange
costs. All taxes and customs duties are included and amount to $31.2 million
or 30% of costs. Provisions for physical contingencies and price escalation
are included and amount to $29.8 million (CFAF 7,450 million) representing
28.6% of total project costs.
3.02      Base costs of all components were updated under conditions prevail-
ing in Ivory Coast during March 1981 in CFA francs exchanged to US dollars
equivalent at a rate of US$1 = CFAF 250. Costs of civil and traffic engineer-
ing works were estimated on the basis of detailed engineering (see para 4.01).
Land acquisition and relocation of networks have already been carried out and
are therefore not included in base costs as no financial outlays will be
needed for them under the project. SOTRA will incur no financial outlays for



- 21 -
land acquisition for the bus depot. The land will be granted by Government as
a norn-monetary counterpart contribution. Services, goods and equipment for
project purposes will be subject to customs duties and internal taxes, there-
fore base costs include taxes. The average cost per person-year of consult-
ants" services (including salary, social charges and taxes, fees, international
travel and local allowance) is estimated according to the official Ivorian fee
scale at about $140,000 (see details in Annex 1 on Technical Assistance).
Serviices of direct key counterpart staff are not included in the base costs
since civil servants are already appointed and paid according to the civil
serv:Lce salary scale by MPWT, MCU and/or other implementing agencies. Other
incremental costs included within the project cover Project Unit running
costs, audio/visual aids, traffic measurement and ancillary office equipment
and fellowships.
3.03      Physical contingencies for works and equipment were estimated at 10%
of base costs for both the transport and cities component. The project costs
incl-ade price contingencies of 27.5% to cover anticipated price increases
during the project implementation period (1981-85). Domestic inflation was
estimated at 12% annually whereas foreign inflation was expected to develop at
9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, and 7.5% thereafter. Summary cost estimates are
given in the table below.
B.  FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
3.04      A Bank loan of $51.0 million (CFAF 12,800 million) will finance the
foreign exchange requirements, or 48.8% of total project costs. The remainder
of the financing would be assured by a national government contribution of
$53.0 million (CFAF 14,800 million) from the Special Equipment and Investment
Budget (BSIE). The Government of the Ivory Coast will be the Borrower. The
Government, through the Ministry of Finance, will make the proceeds of the
loan and its own contribution available to the Ministry of Public Works,
Transportation, (MPWT) and the Mir'stry of Construction and Urbanism (MCU) in
the form of grants since costs will not be directly recovered from the final
beneficiaries.
3.05      Road user charges which consist of taxes on fixed operating cost
items, gasoline and diesel oil (36% and 22% respectively of the consumer
price) will balance the investment budget for the transport component. An
asse!ssment of the current road user taxation policy will be carried out under
the Bank Highway Sector Loan which has already been approved. In the secon-
dary cities component pilot programs, technical assistance and equipment for
development of municipal services will be passed on as a grant. All possible
attempts will be made to recover the cost of the two pilot programs through
existing legal means but actual recovery remains in doubt. Property tax
records are traditionally weak and there is a high risk that cost recovery in
both cities will be poor and difficult to implement even though both cities
have an established land title register on which taxation could be based (see
para. 2.23). Mechanisms will be set up and tested during implementation of the
pilot operations.



- 22 -
IVORY COAST
Second Urban Project
TABLE III.1
Summary of Project Costs
(-Base Cests as at March 31, 1981)
CFAF millions                            US$ millions                % of
Local         Foreign        Total        Local         Foreign       Total      Foreign
Cost       Exchange
(a) Transportation
Public Transport Improvement Measures
Express Bus Network (5.5.km)       2,460          2,140         4,600          9.80          8.60        18.40          45
Bus Operation Improvements           740            600         1,340          3,00          2.40          5.40         45
Banco Primary Road Network
(8.3 km)                    1,670          1,370          3,040         6.70          5.50         12.20         45
Depot for the Bus Company
(SOTRA)                       450             370           820         1.80          1.50          3.30         45
Traffic Management Measures
Treichville, Koumassi, Marcory
and Adjame districts          975             800         1,775         3.90           3.20         7.10         45
Pedestrian Improvements              230            180           410          0.80          0.70         1.50          45
Traffic Management and Road
Maintenance and small equipment 765               625         1,390          3.10          2.50         5.60         45
Technical Assistance
Traffic Management Units    )
(DRTP-BCET, ENSTP)    )       555             840         1,395         2.30          3.30          5.60         60
Safety Programs (OSER)
Bus Company (SOTPA)           )
Additional studies and detailed
Engineering for the Urban
Rail Service (17.3 km)        250             370           620         1.00           1.50         2.50         60
Sub-total (a)       8,095           7,295        15,390        32.40          29.20         61.60        47.1
(b) Secondary Cities
Pilot Program in Daloa               600            600         1,200          2.50          2.30         4.80         50
Pilot Program in Korhogo             330            330           660          1.30          1.30         2.60         50
Equipment for Municipal Services
in Daloa                      140             220           360         0.50          0.90          1.40         60
Equipment for
Municipal services in
Korhogo                100            140           240          0.40          0.60         1.00         60
Technical Assistance to
Municipalities          80            130           210          0.30          0.50         0.80         60
Technical Assistance to DCU           50             70           120          0.20          0.30         0.50         60
Pre-Investment Study                 150            220           370          0.60          0.90         1.50         60
Sub-total (b)       1,450           1,710         3,160          5.80          6.80        12.60         54.1
(c) Contingencies
Physical                             950            900         1,850          3,80          3.60         7.40
Price escalation                   2,705          2,895         5,600         11.00         11.40        22.40
Sub-total (c)        3,655          3,795         7,450        14.80          15.00        20.80
GRAND TOTAL         13,200         12,800        26,000         53.00         51.00       104.00         48.8



- 23 -
3.06      Government will lend about US$4.4 million to the bus company
(SOTRA) co build a depot for 180 buses (see para. 2.09). Relending terms
will be ;he same as for the Bank loan. Exchange risks will be borne by
S3TRA. Final agreement on relending conditions has been obtained at negotia-
tions (see para. 7.02). Costs will be recovered through bus fares. The
technical assistance to SOTRA would be passed on as a grant. The financial
plan is shown in the table below.
C. PROCUREMENT
3.07      Contracts for civil works and supply of equipment for (i) the
E!xpress bus network (US$25.5 million); (ii) the Banco road network (US$18.4
million); (iii) the SOTRA bus depot (US$4.1 million); and (iv) traffic improve-
ments in Treichville, Adjame, Koumassi/Marcory (US$9.6 million), would, as in
the first project, be split into civil works and equipment and be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
Group-s guidelines for procurement. Contracts for operational improvements
-in bus operations, pedestrian facilities, improvements and maintenance of
streets and sidewalks, which will represent an aggregate value of $17.8
million, will be grouped to permit efficient bulk procurement and will
also be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines. For bid evaluation purposes under international compe-
titive bidding, domestic manufacturers will be given a preference of 15%, or
the level of applicable customs duties, whichever is lower. Contracts for
pilot programs in Korhogo and Daloa will be divided into small components in
order to encourage bids from Ivorian enterprises. Feasibility of such schemes
has already been proven under the First Urban Project where large parts of the
upgrading works in Abidjan, particularly in the Port Bouet II component, were
procured in this way. Contracts will be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding under local procedures which were reviewe,l and are satisfactory to the
Bank. These contracts, which will be too small to attract overseas bidders,
are within the capacity of the local medium size contractors. Their aggregate
value amounts to $3.6 million for Korhogo and $6.8 million for Daloa.
3.08       Small items costing less than $50,000 each and which would total no
more than $2 million, will be purchased after solicitation of quotations from
at least three suppliers. Works for relocation of water pipes, electric and
telephone lines and lighting, which are not Bank financed, will be carried out
by the respective utility companies, in the way which proved successful
under the first urban project.
D. DISBURSEMENTS
3.09      Disbursements would be made on the basis of:
(a)  45% of total expenditures for civil works and equipment for
the transport component;



- 24 -
Table III.2: FINANCING PLAN -/
I___B__R      __D             B S IE
Total           IBR
Cost       Amount            %        Amount              %
Public Transportation
Express bus network                6,550       3,040            45        3,540             55
Operational improvements           1,890          890           45        1,000             55
Banco road network                 4,600        2,120           45        2,480             55
Depot                              1,100          520           45          580             55
Traffic Management Measures
Four districts                     2,410       1,120            45        1,290             55
Pedestrians                           590         290           45          300             55
Maintenance                         1,960         890           45        1,070             55
.echnical Assistance
Traffic management units
OSER                               1,780       1,090            60          690             40
SOTRA
URS                                   740         450           60          290             40
Sub-total (a)   21,620       10,380                    11,240
Secondary Cities
Pilot Program in Daloa             1,750          870           50          880             50
Pilot Program in Korhogo              960         480           50          480             50
Municipal services in Daloa           490         300           60          190             40
Municipal services in Korhogo         320         210           60          120             40
Technical Assistance                  410         270           60          140             40
Pre-Investment Study                  450         290           60          160             40
Sub-total (b)      4,380       2,420                     1,960
TOTAL COST                        26,000      12,800            49.2    13,200              50.8
US$ million equivalents
(Totals only)                      104.00      51.00                     53.00
1/ Cost include physical and price contingencies and are given in CFAF millions.



- 25 -
(b)  50% of total expenditures for civil works and equipment for
the pilot investment programs; and
(c)  60% of total expenditures for consultant services and studies.
The schedule of estimated disbursements is given in the table
below.
All disbursements should be fully documented.
3.10      Technical assistance contracts and s:udies up to US$1 million of
foreign costs, or 2% of total projec: costs, for consultant services will be
financed retroactively from July 1, 1980: (i) to prepare within the Traffic
Management Unit of BCET in order to prepare the first year's program of
traffic measurement measures; and (ii) to set up the Traffic Planning Unit
within SOTRA.
Table I11.3
Bank     Quarter       Bank disbursement  Cumulative disbursements  % Cumulative
l'Y     ending            each quarter          end of quarter         disbursements
(US$ million)         (US$ mtillion)
1982   March 31, 1982          0.0                     0.0                    0.0
June 30, 1982           0.5                    0.5                     1.0
1983   Sept. 30, 1982          1.5                     2.0                    3.9
Dec. 31, 1982           2.0                     4.0                   7.8
March 31, 1983          2.5                     6.5                   12.7
June 30, 1983           3.5                   10.0                   19.6
1984   Sept. 30, 1983          4.5                    14.5                   28.4
Dec. 31, 1983           5.0                    19.5                  38.2
March 31, 1984          5.0                   24.5                   48.0
June 30, 1984           5.5                   30.0                   58.8
1985   Sept. 30, 1984          5.5                    35.5                   69.6
Dec. 31, 1984           5.0                   40.5                   79.4
March 31, 1985          5.0                   45.5                   89.2
June 30, 1985           3.0                   48.5                   95.1
1986   Sept. 30, 1985          2.0                    50.5                   99.0
Dec. 31, 1985           0.5                   51.0                  100.0



- 26 -
IV. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.  STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION
4.01      Project studies were carried out by the Traffic Management Unit of
the National Consulting Agency (BCET) assisted by consultants BCEOM and
Halcrow Fox for the transportation component, and for the secondary city
component by BCET assisted by consultant SCET for Korhogo. The Daloa sub-
project was prepared by consultant BCEOM.
(a) Public Transport
(i)  The detailed engineering for the upgrading of the Western
Bypass and construction of the Parc-a-Bois Road from the
East-West Highway to the Western Bypass is totally
completed.
(ii) Minor improvements to bus operations will not require
major capital works. Preliminary engineering and costing
have been completed for footbridges and access roads.
Detailed designs of works to be carried out during the
first year of project implementation have been submitted
at negotiations. It was agreed with MPWT that detailed
designs for the following years would be submitted
according to the year of implementation.
(iii) Detailed designs and bidding documents for the primary road
network of the Plateau du Banco have been submitted before
negotiations.
(iv) The 180 bus depot of the SOTRA bus company is a standard
facility. Eight depots have already been built in
Abidjan. Designs were reviewec by the Bank and are
considered to be satisfactory.
(b)  Traffic Management
The project would finance a four year program of such traffic
measures and specific traffic management plans for four
low income areas. It would not be appropriate to complete
detailed designs for the improvement of bus operations too
far in advance of scheduled implementation. Should actual
costs prove to be more than appraisal estimates, quantities
would be adjusted (e.g. roads to be patched) to fit within
the budget.
(c)  Technical Assistance and Studies
Terms of reference for technical assistants, including positions
to be filled and duration of their assignments are finalized



- 27 -
(see Annex 1). Results of the CIDA feasibiLity study for the
urban rail service in Abidjan have been discussed at negotia-
tions. Terms of reference for the financiaL studies for SOTRA
have been submitted at negotiations;
(d) Secondary Cities
A draft of the terms of reference for a pre-investment program-
ming study has been prepared by the Central Directorate of
Urbanism (DCU) of MCU and submitted at negotiations. Detailed
engineering designs and bidding documents for Daloa and
Korhogo have also been completed.
B. EXECUTION
4.02      The Ministry of Public Works and Transportation (MPWT) and the
Minïstry of Construction and Urbanism (MCU), will have primary responsibility
for execution and coordination. The responsibility for execution of the
project components will lie with agencies of MPWT and MCU as outlined below:
Component                                     Agency Responsible
Pub:Lic transportation in Abidjan
Upgrading of the Western Bypass             Central Directorate of Public Works (DCTP)
Construction of Parc-a-Bois road            assisted by BCET and DGTX for supervision
Banco primary road network                  of civil works.
Imp-rovement of bus operations and          Bus Company (SOTRA)
construction of a bus depot.
Traffic management in Abidjan
Traffic improvement in the four             Central Directorate of Public Works (DCTP)
districts, pedestrian network,              assisted by BCET and DRTP Abidjan for
street lighting and a three-year            supervision of works.
maintenance program for the
entire city.
Training in traffic engineering             National School for Public Works (ENSTP)
Assistance in technical studies             BCET
Assistance to public transportation         BCET in liaison with the
in Bouake                                   Municipality of Bouake
Assistance in work supervision              DCTP
Assistance to SOTRA                         SOTRA
Assistance to the National Road             Central Directorate of Land
Safety Agency (OSER)                        Transportation (DCTT), through
its agency OSER
Urban rail service study                    MPWT assisted by CIDA consultants



- 28 -
Component                                     Agency Responsible
Secondary Cities
Pre-investment programming studies          Central Directorate of Urbanism (DCU)
assisted by BCET and consulting firms
(to be selected)
Development of municipal services           Municipality of Daloa
Municipality of Korhogo
Pilot programs                              Regional Directorates of MPWT and MCU
in Daloa and Korhogo (DRTP) in liaison
with the Technical Services to be
created under the project.
4.03      Upon project completion, the various project elements will be
managed and maintained as follows:
Agency Responsible
Project Elements                for Maintenance                  Origin of Funds
Western Bypass             MPWT through Directorate            Current budget fed
Banco primary and            of Routine Road Maintenance         by road user charges.
main streets
City streets, traffic      Municipality of Abidjan with       Municipal budget and
signalization              assistance from MPWT                current budget.
SOTRA                      SOTRA                              Bus fares
Pilot program in           Municipality of Daloa              Municipal budget
secondary cities         Municipality of Korhogo            Municipal budget
These arrangements have been confirmed during negotiations and agreement
obtained that Government will ensure adequate provision in the budget of MPWT,
MCU and appropriate agencies to assume the maintenance of each facility upon
its completion.
4.04      Project execution and coordination will not require the creation of
new institutions but will aim to develop the existing ones. Routine project
coordination will be carried out by the MPWT Cabinet composed of two advisers
already in place, one for public transportation, and one for infrastructure
works. The MPWT and MCU Cabinet's will operate as an ad hoc coordinating group
which will actually assume the financial and technical management of the
project and will report progress to Government and to the Bank. In particular,
this group will maintain close contacts with local authorities for the secondary
cities program through the General Directorate of Regional Administration
(DGAT) of the Ministry of Interior. The DGAT organizes and supervises the
functioning of municipalities in terms of staff, investment and operating
expenditures, budget and other administrative tasks but does not have a
tao  rore to play in the day-to-da-y e  cztion of specifi cz urbax deel opxeent
programs. The DGAT and Municipalities participate in the deliberations
concerning regional development but do not initiate policies and programs in
the urban sector.



- 29 -
4.05      The secondary cities component will permit the development of muni-
cipaL services in Korhogo and Daloa.  In each of these cities the Director of
Municipal Technical Services will be assisted by a technical adviser who will
be provided under the project. The Technical Service will be responsible for:
(a) coordination of work performed by contractors and the public enterprises
SODECI (water) and EECI (electricity); (b) management of municipal maintenance
services; and (c) preparation of annual municipal investment programs and
budgets for maintenance expenditures. The Accounting Service will also be
adequately strengthened by a technical adviser in order to (a) record project
expenaditures; (b) improve local tax collection; and (c) organize effective
municipal budget management. The technical advisers and Ivorian technical
staff for both the technical and financial services will be seconded from the
MCU and placed at the disposal of the municipality, whereas unskilled workers
would be directly recruited by the municipality. In a similar way, the tech-
nical equipment purchased under the project will be on-lent to the municipal
technical services by the MPWT. In order to improve overall performance, a
coordination committee will be created in Daloa and in Korhogo. It will be
under the chairmanship of the Mayor and will consist of representatives from
the MuniciDal Council, the ministries involved, and the related technical
services.
C.  IMPLEMENTATION
4.06      Project implementation will take four years; the implementation
schedules (attached) are based on the experience gained under the first project
and on the status of preparation of the proposed project.
Management Training
4.07      The Government has been aware for quite a while of the need to bring
the administration closer to the population of secondary cities, to strengthen
local decision power and to imprc.  local urban management capacities. A muni-
cipal law was passed in October 1980; subsequently municipalities were consti-
tuted in, besides Abidjan, 27 secondary cities, among which Daloa and Korhogo.
Municipal elections were held in November 1980. The project aim at the develop-
ment of municipal services in Korhogo and Daloa able to progressively program,
study, implement and manage financial and technical tasks in their respective
cities. Municipal services will be staffed by technical assistants financed by
the proposed project who will train Ivorian counterparts using the works to be
carried out as vehicles for developing a municipal task force.
4.08      The dearth of skilled manpower in secondary cities is a handicap
which prevents implementation of large and complex components. The pilot
programs financed under the proposed project will consist of minor operations
suc.h as garbage collection, drainage and road maintenance, rehabilitation of
cornmunity facilities, etc., which are expected to provide excellent training
for the Ivorians. In parallel, courses will be developed in the ENSTP of
Yamoussoukro offering civil engineers an opportunity to acquire knowledge
coupled with experience in traffic management through direct participation
in the execution of the transport component of the project. Further possible
formal training which might be needed by municipal staff will be identified
uncLer the proposed pre-investment study (see para. 2.22 and Annex 1.23).



IVORY COAST
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
URBAN TRANSPORTATION COMPONENT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Execution                          Commitments (total costs in CFAF million)
1981    1982      1983     1984      1985        1981     1982      1983      1984      1985     Total
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
-  Express Bus Network             xxxxIIII 0oooooooo  OOGOOOO 00000000 0000          170       1,500    1,650    1,820    1,410    6,550
-  Bus operation improvements    xxxxIIII oooooooo. 00000000 00000000 oooo              -         510       560      470       350    1,890
-  Banco primary road network    xxxxIIII oooooooo 00000000 00000000 0000               _       1,260    1,390    1,530        420    4,600
-  Depot for Bus Company           xxxxxloxxx xxxxoooo 0000                             _         510      590       -         -       1,100
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT MEASURES
-  Treichville, Koumassi,         XXXXoooo 1     oooooooo 00000000oooooooo              80        810       890      630       _       2,410
Marcory and Adjamé Districts
-  Pedestrian improvements                  xxxxIIII 00000000 00000000                  -         -        270       320       -         590
-  Improvement and maintenance        xxxx 00000000 o 0 oooooooo 00000000 0000                    240      580       630       510    1,960
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Traffic management units
Safety Programs            )      00000000 00000000 00000000 00000000 0000              80        410      490       540       260    1,780
Bus Company                )
DETAILED ENGINEERING URS                      00000000 00000000                           -         350       390      -         -         740
330     5,590    6,810    5,940    2,950   21,620
Total costs include:
Base costs as at March 31, 1981
Physical contingencies             10%
Price escalation 1981 domestie   12%  foreign   9.0%
1982             12%             8.5%
xxxx  Preparation work                                                                  1983             12%              7.57
IIII  Tendering                                                                         1984             12%              7.5%
oo~o (Execution                                                                         1985             12%              7.5%
000(Implementation1952%75



IVORY COAST
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
SECONDARY CITIES COMPONENT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Execution           _                 Co4 mitments (total costs CFAF million)
1981     1982       1983       1984    1985        1981      1982       1983        1984    1985    Total
Pilot Program in Daloa          xxxxIIII  oooooooo  00000000  oooooooo                  -         670        780        300              1750
Pilot Program in Korhogo       xxxxIIII  oooooooo  00000000  oooooooo                   -         380        430        150               960
Municipal Services in Daloa   xxxxxxxx  00000000  00000000  00000000                    -         290        180         20               490
Municipal Services in Korhogo xxxxxxxx  oooooooo  oooooooo  oooooooo                    -         120        170         30               320
Technical Assistance                0000  00000000  00000000  00000000                 30         180        200         -                410
Preinvestment Study )
Miscellaneous Studies)              0000  00000000  00000000  00000000                 40         240        130         40               450
70      1,880      1,890        540              4,380    e
Base costs as at March 31, 1981
Physical contingencies              10%
Price escalation: 1981 domestic  12%  foreign  9.0%
1982            12%             8.5%
1983            12%             7.5%
1984            12%             7.5%
1985            12%             7.5%
xxxx Preparation work
IIII  Tendering
(Execution
0000 (Implementation



- 32 -
D. SUPERVISION AND MONITORING
4.09      Supervision by Bank staff during the four year implementation
period will require about 90 person-weeks, starting in July 1981. It will
involve specialists in public transportation, traffic, civil works, urban
affairs, financial analysis and municipal management. Besides, about 15
person weeks will also be required to supervise the pre-investment progrAmming
studies for secondary cities. Additional expertise of about 10 persons-weeks
will be required to organize and participate in the training program for
traffic management and urban planning in the ENSTP. About 40 persons-weeks
will also be provided to evaluate the feasibility of the Abidjan urban rail
service and the results of the medium term financial strategy study for
SOTRA.
Monitoring
4.10      A monitoring system will be designed to ensure that data essential
for project execution are provided to project managers and that design and
execution of future projects will benefit from the experience gained through
this project. SOTRA's financial performance will be closely monitored by
services of the Ministry of Finance.
Transportation
(a) The Traffic Management Unit created under the first project within
the Central Bureau of Technical Studies (BCET) will monitor the
traffic components of the proposed project. Indicators monitored
will include: change in modal split, passenger and vehicle flow at
several control stations, service levels and waiting lines, bus
journey times, average waiting time during peak hours and diesel
consumption along specified routes.
(b) The Transport Planning Unit recently created within the bus company
(SOTRA) will monitor the results of the immediate action plan and
those of the medium term plan to consolidate SOTRA-s financial
situation. The key operational indicators would include manning
ratios, annual mileage per bus and passenger trips. The financial
indicators would comprise working, operating and debt/equity ratios,
operating surplus/deficit, operating expenses per passenger trip,
total expenses per passenger trip and total surplus/deficit.
Secondary Cities Program
Due to the delay in implementing the upgrading component of the
first project, the monitoring system created under the first project within
the Central Directorate of Urbanism (DCU) has only partly fulfilled its terms
of reference. The DCU has covered the technical preparatory tasks, but has
not been able to monitor the impact of the upgrading programs on existing
populations in Abidjan although the base line surveys have been completed
satisfactorily for all upgrading areas. As agreed on at negotiations the DCU



- 33 -
will pursue its tasks up to completion of the first project and will partici-
pate in the monitoring of the pilot program for secondary cities. The con-
sulting firm which will carry out the pre-investment programming study for
seconidary cities will closely monitor the pilot programs. Moreover, DCU will
assign a special team to address the following specific issues:
(a) Appropriateness of structure of the urban services created
under the project to carry out more effective technical and
financial city management, including adequacy of maintenance
standards.
(b) The project's impact on urban development as a whole in
project cities, particularly on land tenure arrangements,
property transfers and promotion of small contracting
businesses.
(c) Effectiveness of the existing taxation system to recover
infrastructure costs, more especially the performance of tax
collection for betterment and property taxes.
(d) Adequacy of new management systems in the general administra-
tive framework of the Ivory Coast, particularly as regards
relationships between local authorities and Central Government.
E. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AUDITS
4.11      The overall financial management and accounting of the Bank loan
wiLL be the responsibility oe the Government s debt management agency, la
Caisse autonome d'amortissement (CAA). Created in 1959, the CAA serves as a
fiscal agent for all external loans either to Government or guaranteed by it,
as well as for domestic public borrowings; the former includes Bank, other
multilateral, bilateral aid and e"iort credits, and the latter includes many
official and private loans to parastatal and private borrowers. CAA is also
acting as a depository for housing corporations and for specific funds such as
those earmarked for hydraulics, sewerage and housing.
4.12      All contracts financed under the project will be prepared by the
Central Directorate of Contracts (DCM) within the Ministry of Finance, after
bids have been evaluated by the respective agencies and after formal approval
of the evaluations by the National Committee for Bids, for contracts amounting
to more than $5 million.  Contracts then receive technical approval from MPWT,
MCU respectively and financial appraisal from CAA for Bank loans and BSIE for
local funds.
4.13      Separate project accounts will be maintained by each implementing
unit and MCU advisers. Quarterly progress reports will be prepared by the
Ministries Cabinets and furnished to the Bank, foeussing on, among other
things, policy, physical, contractual and financial progress of the project
including project performance related to key performance indicators.



- 34 -
4.14      Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that no later than
three months after the close of each Government fiscal year, suitable financial
statements including cash flows of project sub-accounts and year-end balance
sheets reflecting the financial operations and position of the project entities
will be made available to the Bank. These financial statements will be audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and its report will be made
available to the Bank no later than eight months after the close of each
Government financial year.
4.15      Upon project completion Government will provide all the information
requested for preparation of a Project Completion Report.
V. THE BUS COMPANY: LA SOCIETE DES TRANSPORTS ABIDJANAIS (SOTRA)
A. ORGANIZATION
5.01      SOTRA was established in 1960 with capital provided by Renault (65%)
and the Ivorian Governnent (35%) with the objective of making a monopoly of
provision of passenger transport in Abidjan. It was one of the earliest
public transport undertakings set up in West Africa. SOTRAs monopoly to
provide such public transport services began to take effect in 1964 when it
was sufficiently equipped with buses to replace the collective taxis which had
previously fulfilled part of this role. In 1974 it had a total capitalization
of CFAF 1.67 billion ($6.7 million) of which CFAF 0.44 billion ($1.8 million)
was equity capital and CFAF 1.23 billion ($4.9 million) was loan capital,
giving a debt/equity ratio of 2.8:1. Since that time, SOTRA has grown
markedly and currently operates 44 routes and 616 km of network on its
urban services, together with certain express services and services for
'taxi-baggage" and university students.  Beginning early December 1980,
SOTRA will also run a boat service operating two routes between Banco,
Plateau and Treichville. SOTRA's fleet is structured to meet these differ-
ing services. The fare structure is very simple, consisting of one basic
charge for normal services with a further charge for long trips. There are
separate charges for express and "taxi-baggage" services whilst students and
uniformed government workers travel free in accordance with government
policy. Other public sector workers also travel at reduced rates. Although
the Government makes a contribution towards this travel, this contribution
covers neither the costs nor the "fare value" of the journeys taken. By
1979, SOTRA was capitalized at a total of CFAF 8.5 billion ($34 million)
with a somewhat unsatisfactory debt/equity ratio of 8.5:1. 1980 equity
capital amounts to CFAF 1.8 billion (US$7.2 million).
5.02      SOTRA is an undertaking which operates to very high standards.  Its
urban fleet of over 700 buses in 1980 is standardized on a Renault single-deck
bus with a two-man operation. It has good depot facilities which have grown
rapidly with the fleet. It operates a further 340 vehicles on its special
zeseic.es relating to express, "taxi-baggage" and servic.es tor university
students. The new boat service will start by operating 16 small 96 person
capacity boats.



- 35 -
5.03      SOTRA is controlled by a Board ("Conseil d'Administration") which
includes various shareholder representation. 1/ The chief officer is the
Director General, who has a deputy Director General and six other directors
responsible for various aspects of SOTRA's activities. This management
structure appears sound for SOTRA's purposes. SOTRA has a staff of about
6,465 consisting of 3,693 employees for traffic operations, 440 employees for
scheduling and administration of traffic operations, 1,839 employees for
mechanical and engineering services, and 493 employees for general and
financial administration. The overall employee/bus ratio in 1979-80 stands
at 6.2 and has fluctuated only slightly around this mark in recent years.
For a two-person crew operation, this manning ratio must be regarded as
reasonably satisfactory, particularly in traffic operations, but the engineer-
ing activity appears to be rather high at 1.76 engineering employees per bus,
anc. the administration employees might also be regarded as being on the high
side.
B. FINANCIAL POSITION
5.04      Until 1974, SOTRA's operations thrived and produced satisfactory
trading figures, but since that time, there has been a steady decline in
performance which is now accelerating rapidly (see Table V.1 below). SOTRA's
troubles began in 1975 when that year's results produced an overall trading
loss. This was basically because inflationary cost increases were not covered
by corresponding increases in revenues.  It is likely that swift action on
faire levels could have recovered the position, but in the absence of such
aclion the scene was set for the deterioration that was to follow, for a
variety of reasons.
5.05      Between 1976 and 1977, SOTRA's fleet increased by 80% and had a
dramatic effect on unit operating and financial performance indicators as
ilLustrated in Table V.1. Average daily passenger trips per bus, which had
stood on average at 1,036 in 1969, had fallen to 866 in 1976, with a sudden
further drop to 544 in 1977. Thus, in 1977 each bus was carrying only 63%
of the passengers it carried the previous year. This was because the surge
in the supply of physical resources was not matched by the proportionate
provision of additional service kilometrage nor by passenger demand. This
was probably due to the inability of SOTRA's management to plan such a rapid
increase as efficiently and effectively as its existing much smaller fleet.
The fleet expansion was too rapid for the SOTRA absorptive capacity. Thus
each marginal bus was significantly less efficient than the average bus in
the existing fleet. At the same time it probably indicates an increase in
standards of service resulting in greater frequencies and reduced loading
factors which could have been used by SOTRA as a justification for further
tarCiff increases.  However, SOTRA's ability to increase fares depends on
Government approval and, for political reasons, fares have been restrained.
The most recent increase from CFAF 40 ($0.16) to CFAF 50 ($0.20) in September
1976, and to CFAF 60 ($0.24) in January 1979 have proved to be inadequate.
1/   Renault Group 39.75%, Government of Ivory Coast 60.2%, various 0.5%.



- 36 -
5.06      The deterioration is further illustrated by the fact that between
1976 and 1980 the total bus fleet increased by 149% while during the same
period total live kilometrage run by SOTRA only increased by 87%. Put another
way, 623 buses were added to the fleet in this period for a total additional
kilometrage for all services of 21,800,000, an average of 35,000 kms per bus.
The overall average kilometrage per bus in 1976 was 60,000. Although these
figures are slightly distorted because they include special services, they
are indicative of the problems arising through the rapid expansion of SOTRA's
fleet. This expansion must be seen against a background of Abidjan's peculiar
geography, where long journeys are made necessary by the lagoons and the two
bridges from the 'Plateau' to the major employment centers are crucial bottle-
necks which cause heavy traffic congestion.
5.07      Thus, SOTRA's deteriorating operating position can be attributed
to:
(a) A steady inflationary increase in operating expenditure which
has not been matched by adequate tariff increase because of
Government policy;
(b)  A rapid expansion of the fleet which, because of the speed of
expansion, management was unable to translate into
the operating performance previously experienced;
(c)  A drop in productivity resulting from (b) above giving rise
to increased unit costs.
5.08      The financial effect of the decline is manifested in the total
deficit position as summarized in Table V.1 and set out in more detail in Annex
2, Tables 4 and 5. A surplus of CFAF 74 million ($0.30 million) in 1974 had
become a deficit of CFAF 4,792 million ($19.2 million) in 1978/79. The total
cost per passenger trip rose by 133% from CFAF 36 ($0.14) to CFAF 84 ($0.34)
in this period and the working ratio deteriorated from 0.85 to 1.14 at the
same time.
5.09      Since practically the whole of the capital investment program up to
the present time has been financed by loans (see Annex 2 para. 7 for details),
the debt/equity ratio has changed from 2.8:1 in 1974 to 8.5:1 in 1978/79.
Whilst this situation is conventionally unsound in accounting terms, it is
perhaps more acceptable in a public sector situation where loans are guaran-
teed by government, provided that sufficient earnings are generated to
service the debt, which was not the case for SOTRA.
5.10      This increasing gap between income and expenditure was made good by
Central Government subventions almost on a default basis rather than as a
planned system of subsidization. However, these shortfalls tended to be
made good retrospectively, leaving SOTRA with a cash flow problem which
forced the company to have recourse to short term borrowing, the servicing
of which exacerbated the financial position. Interest payments on short
term borrowing rose from a negligible amount in 1976 to CFAF 454 million
($1.8 million) in 1978/79, equal to 2.5% of total expenditure (see Annex 2).
The Ministry of Finance is currently reviewing the administration of subsidy
payments with a view to improving the timing of such payments in order to
improve SOTRA's cash flow.



- 37 -
Table V.1
SOTRA
KEY OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS (Selected Years)
1965     1969      1973       1976    1976/77    1977/78         1978/7S
A.  Operating Indicators
Manning ratios                  5.64     6.0       6.42       7.4       6.37         5.91         6.33
Average annual km per bus   57,935  72,900    63,418    60,088   42,000             44,554       45,156
Total passenger trips                                             a/
(in millions)             39.1      71.9    112.8        99.1    148.9        180.0        211.4
Daily passenger trips
per bus                      879   1,036         957        866       544         551           639
1974       1976    1976/77    1977/78        1978/79
B. Financial Indicators
Working ratio b/                                   0.85    1.07         1.04         1.14        1.14
Operating ratioC/                                  0.97    1.17         1.13         1.29        1.29
Debt/equity ratio                                 2.8:1   1.5:1        8.1:1       9.2:1        8.5:1
Operating Surplus/(Deficit)dl
(CFAF millions)                                628    (294)        (259)    (1,348)    (1,790)
Total Surplus/(Deficit)
(CFAF millions)                                 74    (840)    (1,377)    (3,776)    (4,792)
Ope!rating expenses per
passenger trip (CFAF)                              31       44          51           62          69
Total expenses per passenger
trip (CFAF)                                        36       49          59          76           84
a/ 9 raonths only because of a change in SOTRA's accounting period.
b/  The relationship of working expenses (i.e. excluding interest and
depreciation) to total revenue.
c/  The relationship of total expenses (i.e. including interest and
depreciation) to total revenue.
d/ Excluding interest and depreciation.



- 38 -
5.11      The deterioration of the financial position of SOTRA came as no
surprise to that organization. Indeed, SOTRA has a soundly based management
and financial information system. Budgets are set up for various cost centers
(e.g. individual depots) and are monitored on a monthly basis. Variances are
identified and reported. The year-end accounts are available in good time and
it is, therefore, relatively easy to trace the evolution of SOTRA's performance.
As mentioned above, present problems stem from the Government policy of
injecting more and more SOTRA buses into the system in order to meet the
growing demand for transport services, without too much regard for the overall
financial consequences of this policy. However justified the Government
may feel its policy to be on social and other grounds, the facts suggest a
somewhat unstructured approach and that the present network may not optimize
fleet utilization. Immediate action is required to reverse the present
adverse trends stemming from this position (see para.5.14).
5.12      The facts of the present situation have been readily agreed by SOTRA
and the relevant Government Ministries. According to Bank recommendations
discussed at appraisal mission, the Government has begun to implement an
immediate action plan. As a key element a first fare increase from CFAF 60
(US$24) to CFAF 75 (US$.30) was undertaken on April 1, 1981. Subsequent
periodical increases should allow to match future inflation. As a matter of
fact, however, these measures will only prevent a larger future deterioration
of the deficit situation as shown in the Table V.2 below (See Annex 2, paras.
1 to 6 for more detailed comments).
Table V.2
Revenue Account Forecasts
1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84
Total Operating Income 1/        14,800    18,200    19,263    21,189    23,308
Total Operating Expenses 2/    18,695    20,81.9    23,312    26,118    29,030
Operating (Deficit)               3,895     2,619      4,049      4,929     5,722
Depreciation 3/                   2,505     3,679      3,942      4,069     4,472
Interest 3/                       1,343     2,221      1,963      2,003     2,060
Total (Deficit)                   7,743     8,519      9,954    11,001    12,254
Working Ratio                     1.26      1.14       1.21       1.23      2.25
Operating Ratio                   1.52      1.81       1.52       1.52      1.53
1/   Assumes varied fare increases in 1980/81 and subsequent annual increases
to match rates of inflation.
2/   Assumes labor and general cost inflation of 10% and fuel and spare parts
at 15%.
3/   Assumes no further investment beyond the 1979/80 investment program,
except for replacement of fleet.



- 39 -
5.13      SOTRA is aware that even under the most constrained assumptions,
there is likely to be a deficit of between CFAF 7.5 and CFAF 8.0 billion
($32.0 million) in 1979/80. The Ministry of Finance is also aware of this
situation and plans to make provision in its budget to provide a subsidy for
SOTIA to cover this. As Table V.2 shows, SOTRA is heading for deficits in the
region of CFAF 12 billion ($48.0 million) by 1983/84 even if the company is to
be kept on a sound financial footing, accepting the social need for subsidies,
some increases in fares to maintain a reasonable balance between expenditure
and income. Experience suggests that once large gaps between expenditure and
income are allowed to develop, the future scope for reducing the disequilibrium
becomes increasingly restricted.
Future Action by SOTRA
5.14      The Bank has proposed to the Minister of Finance by letter dated
September 11, 1980 that remedial action should be done in two phases. First
an immediate plan in 1980/81 involving:
(a) a moratorium on further capital investments pending completion
of the report on a technical study into its operations
recently commissioned by SOTRA;
(b)  immediate fare increases to secure a working ratio of 1.00 in
FY 1980/81 so that revenue will cover at least working
expenses (i.e. excluding interest and depreciation);
(c) preparation of a statement setting out how the Ivorian
Government plans to finance SOTRA subsidies in 1980/81 and
subsequent years.
Thiis plan as well as specific program of action, inc:Luding financial targets
to be achieved under this immediate plan has been proposed by the Ministry of
Finance in February, 1981.
5.1.5     Second, a medium-term strategy which will emerge as part of the
commissioned technical study to be financed by the Bank as part of this project.
A five year operating and development plan will include a forecast of expendi-
ture and income for each year together with a strategy to relate earnings to
planned government subsidies.
C. THE IMMEDIATE ACTION PLAN
5.16      Officials of SOTRA and the Government indicated that no further
capital investment was planned pending the report on the technical study.
There was a clear understanding with officials that no further investment
should take place if not consonant with the conclusions of the Bank/IMF review
of public investments of January 1981. It was also agreed that investment
plans would henceforth be reviewed periodically with the Bank.



- 40 -
5.17      There is sound justification for such increases.  In 1974 the basic
SOTRA fare was equivalent to 27 minutes of the minimum hourly wage (SMIG) in
Abidjan. At present SMIG stands at CFAF 174 and the basic SOTRA fare is,
therefore, equivalent to only about 20 minutes of SMIG. An increase from
CFAF 60 to, for instance, CFAF 90 in October 1981, would restore its real
term value in relation to SMIG to about that existing in 1974. Government
officials are well aware of these facts and, it is hoped, will make use of
them in developing a fares strategy. Fare increases beyond 1980/81 will
depend on the strategy adopted by SOTRA/Government in terms of its commitment
to subsidies, operating levels, manning and productivity levels and the
interation of these factors.
5.18      Consistent with discussions held with the Government at appraisal,
moderate increases in fares have already been undertaken in SOTRAKs opera-
tions during the present 1980/81 fiscal year. The fare for the urban services
has been increased by some 25% from CFAF 60 (US$0.24) to CFAF 75 (US$0.30).
Additionally, increases amounting to 60%, 56%, 35% and 30% of existing fares
have also been planned for implementation in this fiscal year 1980/81,
respectively for the taxi, express, university and tourist services. Given
that most of these fare increases would at best only be operational for
half of the fiscal year 1980/81, the effective fare increase for the year
would be just under 25%, consideration being taken of the relative distribu-
tion of the servicés provided by SOTRA. This average effective fare
increase falls a long way below the estimated increase of about 45-50% that
would be required to attain a working ratio of 1:0, after allowing for some
demand elasticity responses. Apart from the fare increases, SOTRA has also
indicated a positive intention to reduce its total operating expenditures
by CFAF 1.4 billion (US$5.6 million) or just under 7% of its 1979/80 total
operating costs. This reduction of costs, coupled with the increase in fares
should go a far way towards reducing the company-s projected deficit.  The
deficit is projected to amount to about CFAF 8.5 billion (US$34.0 million)
in 1980/81 and to rise to about CFAF 12.3 billion (US$49.2 million) by
1983/84.
5.19      It can be seen from Table V-3 that even with the projected fare
increases of about 25% effectively in 1980/81 and subsequent increases to
match inflation together with the 7% approximately annual expenditure cut,
an average additional increase of 14% will be required in 1980/81 and one of
17% in 1983/84 for the attainment of a working ratio of 1:0 by SOTRA in those
years. In terms of actual fare levels this will mean basic fares need to be
raised even further from the adjusted year-end 1980/81 level of about CFAF .75
(US$0.30) to about CFAF 85 (US$0.34) and in 1983/84 from CFAF 100 (US$0.40)
to CFAF 120 (US$0.48) to attain this required ratio.



- 41 -
Table V.3
Required Fare Increases to Maintain Working Ratio at 1.00
(CFAF million)
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84
Tota.l anticipated operating
deficit without fare -
increases                          3,895    6,470    9,145   12,250   15,530
Total anticipated revenues -
from proposed fare increases
and expenditure reduction 1/         -       3,851    5,096    7,221    9,808
Remaining operational deficit                  2,619    4,049    4,929    5,722
Additional yearly increase in
fares required for attainment
of working ratio of 1:0              -         +14%     +18%      +13%      +17%
Actual fare level after adjust-
ments made above in fares
and expenditure reduction
(iL  CFAF)                            60        75       85        90       100
Actual fare level required
for basic service (in CFAF)
to attain 1:0 working ratio           60        85       100      105       120
1/   See Annex 2.
D. MEDIUM-TERM STRATEGY
5.20      As mentioned in paragraph 5.14 above, the second phase of the
program of remedial action will relate to a technical study, commissioned by
SOTRA to be financed as part of the second urban project, in accordance with
terms of reference agreed by the Bank. A longer-term action plan will
emerge from this study.  It is scheduled that the study would start early in
1981 and preliminary results would be available in the second half of 1981
befo:re completion of the immediate action plan set out in paragraphs 5.16 to
5.19 (see Annex 1.10). The objectives of the study will be:



- 42 -
(i) To develop a fares strategy to arrest the financial decline of SOTRA;
(ii) To provide a sound financial framework to set the context for
the payment of Government subsidies as part of a well justified
and planned system for financing SOTRA's operations.  In
addition, to determine the most appropriate form of subsidy;
(iii) To study SOTRA's operations and network in order to rationalize
service provision and optimize fleet resources;
(iv) To study SOTRA's peripheral services including "taxi-baggage",
boat, university and express services to determine their
relevance in the passenger transport system and to develop a
strategy to make them financially self-sufficient;
(v) To determine a system of reimbursement for services provided
to Government in respect of concessionary travel for their
workers and students;
(vi) To determine the most appropriate form of fleet provision to
meet the needs of the population in Abidjan, including bus
type, standards and maintenance implications;
(vii) To develop a system of long term planning and the preparation
of a five year operational and financial plan commencing FY
1980/81.
Study results will be reviewed and discussed with the Bank upon completion.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. GENERAL
6.01      The objective of the project is to improve public transportation in
Abidjan including the SOTRA bus company's finances and operations, to study a
public transport system in Bouake and to use pilot operations in Daloa and
Korhogo as vehicles to build local institutions capable of managing urban
growth in the secondary and smaller towns. The urban transport component is
conceived on the basis of maximizing the use of existing infrastructure
through traffic management measures which should significantly reduce invest-
ment in roads without reducing the efficient movement of people, especially
the poor. The infilling strategy to increase densities within Abidjan's urban
fabric, particularly the Banco area, and the policy to develop and favor
public transportation by bus, would enable Government to postpone large scale
transport investments. Major investments postponed beyond 1984 include the
urban rail service, the Banco bridge, doubling of the Houphouet Boigny bridge,
and the second half of the East-West Highway. The secondary cities component



43 -
is ccnceived to support Government's efforts to deconcentrate Abidjan. The
main thrust of the regional development policy is the gradual reduction of
migration towards Abidjan through more equitable distribution of public
investment. However, the risk of misallocation of funds for secondary cities
is ernormous in the absence of efficient local authorities and of a sound
strategy for development of cities other than Abidjan. The pre-investment
programming study financed under the proposed project will enable Government
to examine alternative development strategies and to prepare an investment
program for the coming decade taking into account the results of this project's
pilot operations in Daloa and Korhogo.
B. TRANSPORT
6.02      The transport portion of the proposed project consists of two main
items: (i) public transportation; and (ii) traffic management measures; the
economic evaluation will therefore be conducted separately for these two
packages. The components evaluated constitute about 84% of the transport
project costs.
Benefits
6.03      The overall internal rate of return of the transport component is
slightly higher than 32% under the least favorable assumptions of costs (+20%)
and benefits: time value equals zero and reduction by half of traffic
congestion. This confirms experience gained during the first project tnat
traff'ic improvement measures can give substantial rate of return. Energy
savings have been estimated on the basis of vehicle running and idling costs
using a model calibrated in the Ivory Coast transport plan and SOTRA data for
buses. Bus priority schemes and traffic management financed under the project
would resuit in energy savings amounting to about 20% of total benefits
compared to the existing situation.
6.04      The evaluation approach adopted in this project reflects the two key
objectives of the project: (a) to bring about urban transport improvements
as economically as possible, and (b) to channel as many of the benefits as
poss-ible to public transport users. The first objectiLve resulted in all
alternatives being scrutinized to ensure that the benefits could not be
obta:îned at a lower cost. The second led to the evaluation effort being
concentrated on identifying benefits to public transport users. To ensure the
channeling of benefits to public transport, calculations have been made to
show that the projects are justified on the basis of benefits to public
transport alone. However, estimates of benefits to car users are introduced
where appropriate and have been estimated as carefully as the public transport
bene:Fits.
6.05      The economic evaluation is based on quantified savings in vehicle
operating costs, maintenance costs, and travel times. Given the objective of
creating benefits for public transport users, equal emphasis has been piaced
on measuring and quantifying savings in travel times, since it is believed
that these savings constitute an important indicator of the extent to which



- 44 -
benefits are actually realized by bus riders and, thus, should be included
along with vehicle operating cost savings in the economic evaluation. All
time savings have been valued in the calculation of the economic indicators at
30% of the average wage rate of the economically active population ($0.67).
In the sensitivity analysis travel time was valued according to distribution
of household income in Abidjan allocating a different travel time value to car
passengers from that of bus riders. A test was also conducted making time
value equal to zero.
6.06      The proposed project includes traffic improvement programs and bus
operating facilities in Treichville, Adjame, Koumassi/Marcory that have been
designed to produce jointly benefits to public transport users. In each case,
these Programs were evaluated as packages to see whether the benefits from the
package justified its cost. In principle, it would have been desirable to
identify the specific benefits from each component of the package. In
practice, this would have involved an inordinate amount of analysis since
each package included many distinct elements. To ensure that unreasonable
elements had not been included in a package, each component was carefully
examined from a transport planning and traffic engineering viewpoint. Having
ascertained the reasonableness of including each element in the package, the
scale of infrastructure provision was examined. This resulted in numerous
reductions in standards and size. In this way, it was possible to use the
"package" approach to evaluation within the context of the Bank's standards
of technical and economic feasibility.
Deneficiaries
6.07      The relative urban poverty threshold in Abidjan was defined at $410
per capita in 1979 and the absolute poverty estimated at $230 per capita.
Calculations made during the Ten Year Development Study showed that 23% of the
urban population of greater Abidjan was below the relative poverty threshold.
343,000 households will live in Abidjan in 1985 and about 98,100, or 27.9%,
would be below the relative poverty threshold, corresponding to 617,000
people. A survey made on the users of public transport showed that 80% of
them earn less than the arithmetic mean of Abidjan, 60% less than the median
income, and 22% less than the relative poverty threshold. The impact of the
project on the low income group is very important. The percentage of project
investments in Abidjan that generate benefits directly to the low income group
is 62%, the group being defined as earning less than the median income. The
urban poor, who represent 22% of the public transport clientele would receive
17% of benefits. The overall population that will benefit from the public
transport program financed under the project could be estimated to be about
1,275,000 in 1981, reaching about 1,650,000 in 1985, or 76.9% of the total
population of greater Abidjan.
6.08      The traffic management package is even more directed towards the
poor, since it is being developed in the most populous areas of Adjame,
Treichville and Koumassi/Marcory. The package includes not only measures for
vehicular traffic, but also covers a series of minor improvements for
pedestrians. A survey made in 1977 on the population of Adjame during the
first urban project showed that the median per capita income was $380, and
that 40% of the 131,000 inhabitants surveyed were below the relative poverty



- 45 -
threshold. No survey was conducted on the inhabitants of Koumassi/Marcory
and Treichville. However, in the squatter slum of Koumassi, which has about
60,000 of the 162,000 inhabitants of Koumassi surveyed in 1977, incomes are
probably lower than anywhere else in Abidjan. It is virtually inaccessible.
There are no streets just muddy paths, no drainage, many large puddles and
piles of garbage. The project will provide for access to buses, pedestrians,
and garbage trucks. No further improvements can be implemented in the Poto-
Poto area since drainage and extensive landfills would be required and the
present Poto-Poto population would not benefit from the high cost improvements
since schemes of this sort result in land values becoming too high for
the existing occupants.
Economic Analysis
6.09      Detailed analysis of the economic justification is available in the
project file; the results are summarized in Tables VI.l, VI.2 and VI.3.
Between 1965 and 1979 the demand for public transportation varied from 0.15 to
0.39 daily trips per inhabitant corresponding to 211.4 million trips in 1979
for the 1.7 million inhabitants of greater Abidjan. Assumptions made in the
Ten Year Development Study on a population of 2.2 million in 1985, show that
the total number of annual trips by SOTRA could approximate 250 to 265 million
in 1985. To accommodate such a demand, the proposed project would finance (i)
an express bus network along the Abobo Gare-Treichville route and its
connection with the Banco Plateau. Most of both these routes have already
been constructed and offer sufficient capacity. The missing links to be built
under the proposed project consist of: the Western Bypass and Parc-a-Bois
Road (5.5 km) and primary roads in the Banco area (8.8 km); and (ii) traffic
management which would give inter alia priority to buses through bus lanes and
improved junctions.
Methodology
6.10      The economic evaluation is based on a comparison of discounted values
of cost and benefit streams gene-^ted by the project, all without tax.  Costs
consist of (i) investment costs including: construction, detailed engineer-
ing, supervision of works and maintenance, physical contingencies, and (ii)
maintenance costs. Benefits accrue from savings in vehicle operating costs and
user time savings subdivided into: (i) savings generated during actual
journey of the vehicles, including regular stops at non-saturated signalized
intersections; (ii) savings generated through reduction or elimination of
waiting lines at saturated junctions or on congested links. Cost savings in
waiLting lines arise primarily from reduction in fuel consumed by idling
engines. All time and cost savings have been broken down into: (i) public
transit user benefits, and (ii) private car or truck user benefits. As in
most urban transport projects, this project addresses itself primarily to
congestion problems. Therefore benefits have been first estimated in reference
to the average week-day peak hour and then generalized to the full year through
usfe of an appropriate expansion factor.
6.11      Two vehicle types have been distinguished throughout the
computations:



- 46 -
-    Private vehicles (PV)
-    Public transit vehicles (PT).
Private transport vehicles have been lumped together and flows expressed in
passenger-car equivalent units (pcus), based on appropriate conversion factors.
Two-wheel vehicles have been disregarded for they operate only in small
numbers in Abidjan's streets and therefore would contribute only small economic
benefits; this does not detract from the necessity of properly catering to
their needs, especially safety-wise. Running times with and without project
have been calculated on the basis of a simplified link performance model.
Waiting lines (traffic congestion) have been computed on the basis of a
simplified model developed for the Abidjan case. Corresponding fuel con-
sumption is assumed to be strîctly proportional to idling time. All above-
mentioned model equations have been calibrated to fit the Ivorian context.
6.12      The benefit computation is a four step procedure:
(i) Traffic forecasts by vehicle types on each project-related link;
(ii) Speed calculation on each link, by vehicle type, using the
performance model;
(iii) Cost calculation on each link, by vehicle type, using the cost
model;
(iv) Waiting line calculation on each link, if demand overrides
capacity, using the waiting line model.
For any given year, the sequence is run successively for the "with" and
"without" project situations. Benefits are the difference in the results in
costs and times. In the case of infrastructure investment with a long life
time (15 years) the procedure is used to calculate benefits on opening year
(1983) and target year (1987). Beyond 1987 benefits are deemed to increase at
a constant slow rate, taking into account the progressive increase in car
ownership among the population. In the case of short term operational
improvements, benefits are assumed to remain constant over time. Finally, in
both cases, benefits and costs enter into the economic indicators (benefit
cost ratio, net present value, economic rate of return (ERR)).
6.13      Western Bypass.  For the bypass, internal rates of return are
above 65%. Benefits for the public transport users are in all cases about
two-thirds of total benefits and three-quarters for the main links. Under the
assumption that buses only would benefit from the proposed project, the rates
of return for the various links are between 45 and 55%, the overall rate of
the Western Bypass operation being 52%. The sensitivity analysis which was
conducted using different hypotheses on design standards, costs and time
value, has shown that the rates of return remain high under the least favorable
hypothesis. For instance, with a time value equal to zero, the ERR is above
35% except for one short link where it reached 17%. The variation of the ERR
was also studied using several hypotheses concerning the reduction of traffic
congestion (waiting lines). Under the unrealistic assumption that the



Table VI.1
Fuel savings only            Ail costs savings         All benefits (time incl.)
B/C      NPV       ERR       B/C       NPV       ERR         B/C      NPV       ERR
Western By-pass
Parc à Bois              10-2             12.2      14,206      -       13.3    15,556         51       49.4   61,325        88
Connection                2-3              7.1       8,211      -        7.1      8,201       47       27.2   35,260         84
(Sebroko         3-4             17.0       8,996      -       17.0      8,975       51       66.0   36,483         87
Western-(Carena           4-4A              3.9         825     -        3.9         827       38      16.4    4,315         51
By-pass (                4A-4B             1.08          51     -        1.08         52       17        5.6    2,809        57
(26m width      4B-5              3.3          771     -        3.3        773        36      13.0    4,009         71
Package                                     7.6     22,022      -        8.0    23,347         48       30.6   98,668        85
Banco Primary Roads
Access to industrial
area                    1-2              4.4          697     -        4.3        674        37.1    19.5    3,837         71
Access to ferry  1    15-14                 0.14     - 562       -       0.5      - 310         8.5      1.4       255       23
2    14-13               0.14      - 409      -        0.52    - 227         8.4      1.4       186       23
Medium road             13-12               0.48      - 182      -       0.82    -  61         11.8      2.4       490       33
Central North bound   12-11                 1.40        131     -        1.06         19       17.2      4.5    1,140        43
Northern road           11-10               3.5      1,597       -       3.8      1,785        39.1    15.1    8,960         68
Connection East
West H5ghway           8-7               -           -        -        dropped from project            -        -          12
Package 1/                                  1.40     1,069       -       1.79    2,097         26        6.5   14,681        53
Traffic Improvement Measures
Koumassi                                    2.0         762      -       2.8      1,409        39       10.0    7,083       140
Adjame                                      0.60      - 336      -       0.22    - 643          1        7.9    5,823       100
Marcory                                    20.9      13,495      -      22.0    14,214        315       85.0   56,800   1,230
Treichville                                 1.26        191     -        1.39        290       16        9.19   6,060       119
1/   8.7 excluded
Discount rate for B/C and NPV calculations = 12%
Units NPV in MCFA
ERR in %



Table VI,2
Distribution of benefits (%)
Public transport             Private transport                   Total               Grand
Fuel   Other cost  Time       Fuel  Other cost  Time       Fuel  Other cost   Time   Total
savings  savings   savings  savings savings  savings  savings  savings   savings
Western By-pass
Parc à Bois           10-2       13.8      1.4       20.2      10.9    0.8       53.0        24.7    2.2         73.1    100
Connection             2-3       14.1      0         18.7      12.0    0         55.2        26.1    0           73.9    100
(Sebroko      3-4       13.9      0         18.5      11.9    0         55.7        25.8    0           74.2    100
Western (Carena        4-4A      14.2      0.1       35.5        9.8    0        40.4        24.0    0.1         75.9    100
By-pass (             4A-4B       6.3      0          8.3      13.1    0         72.3        19.4    0           80.6    100
(26m width   4B-5       15.0      0.1       20.6      10.4    0         53.9        25.4    0.1         74.5    100
Package                          13.9      0.8       19.5      11.0    0.5       54.3        24.9    1.3         73.8    100
Banco Primary Roads
Access to industrial
area                 1-2       18.1   - 0.5        34.5       4.2    0         43.7        22.3  - 0.5         78.2    100
Access to ferry  1   15-14        3.7      8.5        8.6        6.3   19.3      53.6        10.0   27.8         62.2    100 i oo
2   14-13       3.6     8.5        8.6        6.2   19.1      54.0          9.8   27.6        62.6    100   2/ 
Medium road           13-12      14.4      7.9        2.2        5.6    6.5      63.4        20.0   14.4         65.6    100
Central North bound  12-11       26.4  - 12.2        18.4       4.8    4.6       58.0        31.2  - 7.6         76.4    100
Northern road         11-10      18.9      1.3       30.7       4.4    0.7       44.0        23.3    2.0         74.7    100
Connection East
West Highway         8-7       -         -        -           dropped from project         -        -          -        -
Package 1/                       16.6      2.0       28.3       4.9    3.9       44.3        21.5    5.9         72.6    100
Traffic Improvement Measures
Koumassi                         li.7      8.7       25.0       4.U  - 0.5       47.1        19.7    8.2         7z.i    100
Adjame                            2.4   - 4.5         2.1        5.1  - 0.1      95.0         7.5  - 4.6         97.1    100
Marcory                          19.3      1.5       27.1        4.8  - 0.2      47.0        24.6    1.3         74.1    100
Trtc1-ichvtle                     7.1   - .0.8       10.2        6.6    2.2      74.7        13.7    1.4         84.9    100
1/ 8-7 excluded
2/ On this link private transport includes trucks



Table VI.3
Sensitivity analysis
on Economic Rates of Return
Time Value    Time                                   Operating                                No. Of
according    Value        Construction Costs          Costs         Waiting Lines            Private
to income   equals                                                                            Cars
distribution   zero          +20%          -20%         +20%           0%           50%
Western By-pass and
Parc-a-Bois road
Parc-a-Bois                90        51            88            90           89          46              53
Junction                   86        47            85            86           86          11.5            51
By-pass      Sebroko                    88        51             81           88           88           39             51
Carena                     77                      76            78           77          32              67
26M width                  77        36            75            77           76          32              47
Total                       >8       12            64            70           67         283              42
Package                                 88        48            86            88           87           42             52
II    Banco primary road
Access to industrial area             76        37            73            76           74          47              67
Access to Ferry Boats 1               33         9            30            42           37          35              35
2             33         8            31           42            37          35              35
Medium road                           44        14            42            54           49           34             37
Central Northbound road               59        17            55            62           59          38              41
Northern road                         80        39            78            80           79          41              48
Connection with East-West
Highway              25         8            17           25            22          20              20
Package                    72        26             68           73           71           41             44
III   Traffic  improvement measures
Koumassi                             233        39           192           276          232           49            140           71
Adjame                               210         1           172           248          205          107            159          100
Marcory                            1,500       315         1,200         1,500        1,300          153          1,000          631
Treichville                          252        16           205           296          248           38            131           96
Notes:        Time Value           $0.67
Discount rate        12%



- 50 -
proposed project would have no impact on reduction of waiting lines, the ERR
is still higher than 25% except on a link where the ERR is 11.5%. In
conclusion, the proposed Western Bypass is highly justified on economic
grounds and would primarily benefit public transportation. It should be noted
that provision of a separate right-of-way on the Attiecoube-Houphouet Boigny
Bridge section would enable buses to run at 60 km per hour. Without these
separated lanes this section would be saturated before 1987 with 400 buses and
4,100 private cars per hour and the average traffic speed would be about 12 km
per hour. Provision of busways would generate limited losses to private cars,
but since cars would transport only 8,200 persons and buses carry about 40,000
passengers, separate busways are clearly justified.
6.14      Banco primary road.  Results of the economic analysis are shown in
Table VI.2 below. All internal rates of return are above 35%. Benefits for
bus riders amount to two-thirds of total benefits and are 80% on some links.
Taking into account only those benefits generated for buses, the internal
rates of return are 25%, and amount to 44% of the package. The sensitivity
analysis led to the elimination of one link which showed a low rate of return
when taking into account benefits to bus riders only. Variations in
construction costs (+20%) reduce the rates of return to 30%. Under the
assumption that time value equals zero, the overall rate of return is still
26%; two sections having an ERR between 8 and 9%. However, these sections
link the land bus network to the terminal for water coaches which is under
construction. It is likely that the assumptions on traffic allocations for
these two sections have been overly pessimistic since the ferries will connect
the Banco area, by crossing the laguna, to the existing Port area and the
projected Port extension will be close to the terminal for water coaches. The
two links would be integrated into the access road network of the new port.
6.15      Traffic improvement measures.   Traffic improvement measures have
been combined with four schemes in four different places: Koumassi, Adjame,
Marcory and Treichville. Each one has been analyzed separately. Results are
shown in Table VI.3 below. The internal rate of return of the package is
about 33% under the hypothesis that all time savings are valued at 30% of the
average rate of the economically active population. The rates of return for
the first year are all above 100%. Using the assumption that time value
equals zero, the sensitivity analysis has shown that the ERR is still high
except for Adjame, because the proposed improvements in this area mostly
concern the creation of bus lanes by widening the existing pavement and
benefits would derive from time savings. The ERR of the Adjame program is
100% if benefits are allocated to buses only with time savings valued at 30%,
as mentioned above. For the three other areas and using the latter hypothesis,
the ERR is above 65%. Benefits for bus riders amount to 60% in Koumassi/
Marcory and 87% in Treichville.
C. SECONDARY CITIES PROGRAM
6.16      The main objective of this component is to assist Government in
building up and/or strengthening urban management systems in secondary cities
where up to now few, if any, local institutions existed. New municipalities



- 51 -
have been established February 1980 in most of the maJor secondary cities.
The proposed project will give strong support to Government's attempt to
effectivelNY decentralize the administration and to work in favor of a more
balanced regional development.  The local government'sh institutional framework
is extremely weak but will be progressively strengthened over the next few
years through new administrative mechanisms which are likely to be developed
on a trial and error basis. The project endeavors to deal with this peculiar
situation and it is therefore largely based on experimental features which
will allow Government to test, through the pilot programs, new administrative
mechanisms and, if necessary, elaborate alternatives. Implementation of the
secondary cities component will, for this very reason, include numerous
unquantifiable risks and ex-ante economic analyses would be of no avail.
6.17      Evaluation of the project's economic impact, to be made on completion
of the project, will be principally based on monitoring results and on assess-
ment of increased land and property values, due to infrastructure works, even
though this method might not fully reflect the entire measure of benefits
from improvred management and the healthier environment achieved by the pilot
programs. The pilot programs will improve the living conditions of all
residents, particularly the poorest in Daloa and Korhogo. Increased effective-
ness of urban maintenance services will reduce the steady decline of the
physical environment in both cities. More importantly, it will also contribute
to increasing the attractiveness of the secondary cities and encourage economic
investment and employment creation, which would otherwise be diverted to
Abidjan.
6.18      The secondary cities program has a number of new features which are
subject to risk although the Ivory Coast has expressed its commitment to these
initiatives. Two main areas of risks can be identified: the institutional
arrangement for implementation of pilot programs, and its replicability.
Regarding the institutional arrangement, execution of the pilot programs will
require efficient management.  The transfer of staff from the Central Govern-
ment. services to municipalities and regional services is gradually taking
place. However, there is a risk of considerable delays in implementation if
proper coordination is not ensured between Abidjan and the Daloa/ Korhogo
authorities. The replicability of the pilot programs depends upon the effec-
tive introduction of the cost recovery mechanisms. Beneficiaries are prepared
to pay for security of tenure and provision of essential services. Failure to
collect taxes will result in lower standards of service and a need for sub-
sidies from Central Government.  It is therefore extremely important that
Government devote continued attention to the development of an efficient
property tax system.
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      At negotiations, agreements were reached on the following points:
(a)   annual traffic management programs (para. 2.16) and annual road
maintenance programs (para. 2.17) set up according to criteria
discussed ana agreed with the Bank;



- 52 -
(b) curricula for the training programs for Ivory Coast engineers
at the National School for Public Works in Yamoussoukro
(para. 2.18), and terms of reference for the pre-investment
programming study (para. 4.01);
(c)  agreement to consult with the Bank on the viability, financing
plans and operation timing of the URS as well as of any other
large transportation project that could have an impact
on the project (para 2.18);
(d) arrangements for maintenance of the various project components
(para. 4.03); monitoring of the project (para. 4.10); and project
audit (para. 4.13);
(e) the timetable for review and implementation of the results
of the medium term financial strategy study for SOTRA
(para. 5.15);
(f) financial targets to be achieved by SOTRA (para. 5.17);
(g) the execution of a subsidiary between the Government and SOTRA
loan agreement on terms satisfactory to the Bank as a condition
of effectiveness of the Bank loan (para. 3.06);
(h) preparation of quarterly progress reports relying on key per-
formance indicators (para. 4.13);
(i) preparation of financial statements and audit reports prepared
by auditors acceptable to the Bank and submitted to the Bank
no later than eight months after the close of each Government
fiscal year (para. 4.14); and
(j) Government's commitment to provide, upon project completion,
all information requested for preparation of the Project
Completion Report (para. 4.15).
7.02      On the basis of the above agreements, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$51.0 million equivalent, to the Government of
Ivory Coast, at the prevailing interest rate and repayable over seventeen
years including four years of grace.



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
IVORY COAST
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        The technical assistance required to ensure the satisfactory prepara-
tion, implementation and monitoring of the project being undertaken by the
Ministry of Public Works and Transportation (MPWT) and the Ministry of Con-
struction and Urbanism, Construction and Urbanism (MCU) through its Directorates,
agencies and technical assistance seconded to local authorities, will be:
(a)  Transportation
Central Bureau of Technical Studies                    140 person-months
Public Works National School                            42
Central Directorate of Public Works (Abidjan)          100
Bus Company (SOTRA)                                     65
Road safety agency (OSER)                               35
Detailed engineering for urban rail service            125
(b)  Secondary Cities
Municipality of Daloa (seconded from Public Works)   30    "
Municipality of Korhogo (I       Il   *)                30
Central Directorate of Urbanism (Abidjan)               35
Preinvestment prog7.amming study                        70           '
2.        Costs have been based on Arrete 2056 dated December 26, 1979 from
the then Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning, which gives the level of
fees and allowances for technical assistance in Ivory Coast. For appraisal
purposes cost of a person-year was averaged at $140,000, broken down as
follows:
US$
Taxes (30%)                              42,000
Salary with social benefits (71%)        44,400
Expatriation allowance and
cost of living                         17,200
Housing                                  10,800
Representation                            2,200
International travel                      5,000
Local travel (car)                        4,800
Overhead (10%)                           13,600
140,000



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
I. TRANSPORTATION
A. CENTRAL BUREAU OF TECHNICAL STUDIES (BCET)
3.        The Traffic Management Unit (TMU) financed under the first project
will be maintained under the second project. The Unit was set up within the
BCET of the Ministry of Public Works to study and execute programs designed to
improve the operation of existing transport infrastructure. Its Terms of
Reference were adjusted so that its responsibilities would be shared by
BCET, which would be in charge of studies and monitoring, and the Regional
Directorate of Public Works in Abidjan, which would be in charge of supervision
of works. The Terms of Reference specifically call for the TIU of the BCET to
be responsible for:
(a) planning and programming the traffic improvement measures to
be financed under the proposed project;
(b) preparing detailed design and bidding documents for such
operations;
(c)  monitoring of the systems developed;
(d) coordinating actions with the SOTRA bus company, the
Municipality of Abidjan, the Regional Directorate of Public
Works and the Road safety agency (OSER).
4.        During the project implementation period 4.0 experts would be
assigned to the BCET/TIMU: a transport planner responsible for the transport
studies, an engineer responsible for traffic improvement measures, a traffic
signals specialist, and a team leader responsible for overall coordination.
The Terms of Reference of the permanent experts are summarized below; the
Terms of Reference of the counterparts are the same.
Two Traffic Management Advisers
5.        They shall have an engineering degree with additional qualifications
in transportation/traffic engineering and with a minimum of five years
experience in highway planning and traffic management and have had experience
in the application of computers to urban road network analysis. They shall be
fluent in French. They shall advise and assist the Traffic Management Unit
for four years on all aspects of transportation/traffic engineering including:
(a) the analysis and evaluation of transport networks with the help
of computers;
(b) the execution of urban transport studies;



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
(c) measures to encourage public transport;
(d)  area road pricing, and other measures to encourage economy
in the use of road space;
(e) policies and control measures relating to the operation and
enforcement of on- and off-street car parking;
(f) the monitoring of traffic volumes, composition and speeds, the
occupancy of vehicles, and other key indicators of effective
traffic management.
Adviser on Traffic Signals Implementation
6.        He shall be professionally qualified as a traffic engineer with at
least: five years practical experience of the implementation of traffic engineer-
ing nieasures in cities. He shall be fluent in French. The assignment shall
be for three years. He shall advise and assist the Traffic Management Unit of
BCET in the design and implementation of junction improvements, priority
schemaes for high occupancy vehicies, and other traffic engineering measures.
He shall have experience in computerized medium size traffic signaling schemes.
He will be called upon to train BCET staff by practical example and by imple-
menting measures himself.
B. CENTRAL DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC WORKS IN ABIDJAN (DCTP)
7.        A team of five experts will be required to supervise the civil
works to be executed during the period of the project. The team will super-
vise the construction of the Western Bypass, the primary road network in the
Banco area, the traffic improvements in Treichville, Marcory/Koumassi, and
Adjame, including the minor works and urban road maintenance.
The team will comprise:
- a senior civil engineer (team leader)
- a senior highway engineer
- a soils engineer
- a structural/drainage engineer
- a traffic engineer.
8.        They shall all have engineering degrees.  Part of their professional
careers shall have been spent in developing countries. They shall be fluent
in French. The assignment shall be for three years. They shall assist and
advise the Central Directorate of Public Works in the execution of civil
works included in the project, in particular:



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
(a) preparation of the project implementation schedule and the
coordination of the implementation aspects of the construction and
equipping of the project components;
(b) preparation of briefing documents, ensuring that norms,
standards, and specifications reflect economy and functional
design;
(c) review of drawings to ensure that space provisions and
specifications are interpreted correctly so as to minimize
changes during construction and after acceptance and approval
of bids;
(d) preparation of bidding documents and review of specifications;
(e) monitoring and evaluating progress including site visits;
(f)  inspection of completed works with the Public Works authorities
and supervision of preparation of final certificates for
payment due on completion; and
(g) preparation of periodic progress reports for the Government
and the Bank.
The team should progressively evolve towards an urban work unit within the DCTP
as soon as counterparts have been well trained.
C. THE SOTRA BUS COMPANY
9.        A team consisting of one full time expert assisted by short-term
experts, will be required to improve the SOTRA's operations, implement the
immediate plan of action and prepare a medium term financial strategy to
consolidate the SOTRA's financial situation.  They will form the core of the
newly created Transport Planning Unit within the SOTRA. The general objec-
tives of the Unit would comprise:
(a) planning the various networks of the SOTRA in conjunction
with Abidjan's growth, paying particular attention to new
services, transport systems and appropriate vehicles;
(b) investment programming for the next four years; and
(c) design and coordination of development plans and reorganiza-
tion of internal structure in order to reach agreed targets.



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Medium term financial strategy study
10.       The Transport Planning Unit has commissioned a study which will
cover operational, planning and financial aspects of the company's future
deveLopment. The rapid increase in SOTRA's fleet since 1976 has meant that
there has been additional pressure on SOTRA's basically sound management
resu:Lting in some loss of efficiency and effectiveness. The result has been
lowe,r productivity, higher unit operating costs, etc.
11.       The Unit will be staffed by experts financed under the proposed
project, who would have the following experience. They shall have professional
experience in public transport operations specifically dealing with
scheduling, routing, fares, finance, and management. Part of their
professional careers shall have been spent in developing countries. They
shall be fluent in French. The assignment shall be for three years. They
shall advise SOTRA on:
(a) investigation, review and analysis of the operation of
public transport services, including scheduling, routing and
fare structures;
(b) compiling of records, reports, and information on public
transport operations, including the adoption of standardized
accounting and reporting procedures by SOTRA;
(c) provision of advisory services to public transport
operators on management, fleet maintenance, training, account-
ing, and such other matters for which advice may be requested;
and
(d) conduct of short courses on public transport operations
in ENSTP.
They shall also assist SOTRA on:
(a) economic analyses of public transport operations;
(b) development of plans, policies, criteria and programs to
provide a satisfactory level of public transport services;
(c) administration of transport planning, and coordination
of transport planning and other planning in the urban sector,
and administration of the Bureau;
(d) regulation of transport operations, the development of
licensing procedures and criteria, the enforcement of
policies and regulations; and
(e) monitoring of the progress of project implementation, and
preparation of progress reports for Government and the Bank.



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
D. THE ROAD SAFETY AGENCY (OSER)
12.       The road safety agency (OSER) created within the Central Directorate
of Land Transportation (DCTT) has requested that a study on traffic accidents
be undertaken by consultants. The project will provide funds for about 20
person-months to:
(a) carry out the study; and
(b) assist OSER to develop plans, policies and programs to reduce
traffic accidents.
The study will (i) analyze the behavior of drivers and its incidence on
safety in urban areas; (ii) define appropriate measures to increase road
safety. The consultants will take into account all types of accidents: body
injuries as well as material damage. The cities to be covered are Greater
Abidjan, Bouake and Korhogo. Consultants will study existing documentation
and will identify the main characteristics of accidents. They will establish
relationships between the human factor and accidents and between the phenomenon
of the automobile and the Ivorian socio-economic factor. Consultants would
prepare a synthesis of their findings and make recommendations for a set of
measures able to reduce casualties, covering adjustments to existing traffic
regulations, and advertising and enforcing of penalties. Consultants will be
assisted by two Ivorian counterparts to be trained under the study.
E.  OUTLINE OF TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION IN BOUAKE
13.       The following outline terns of reference should be sufficient to
allow MPWT to make a decision as to the appropriateness of a public transport
component for Bouake.
(a) Analyze existing public transportation problems.
(b) Carry out forecasts of the likely demand up to 1990.
(c)  Examine each of the following systems:
(i)  A regular para-statal bus company;
(ii)  A municipally organized system of private operators;
(iii)  Any other relevant system with a view to
determining the most cost effective and appropriate
system based on a broad analysis of the following:
(a) institutional and administrative requirements;
(b)  financial requirements;



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
(c) technical assistance requirements;
(d) the costs of the system; and
(e) the benefits provided.
F. TRAINING PROGRAM AT THE PUBLIC WORKS NATIONAL SCHOOL (ENSTP)
14.       There are no facilities for training traffic engineers and urban
plarLners in Ivory Coast at present, but there is a need for courses in traffie
management and urban planning at the national level and possibly at the regional
level, as the same problems also exist in neighboring countries. The National
School for Public Works (ENSTP) at Yamoussoukro, which was opened two years
ago, has sufficient capacity and facilities to organize such a course.
15.       Courses would last about 18 months and would cover the basics of
trai'fic management:
(a) geometric design;
(b) regulation and traffic control;
(c) parking;
(d) public transportation;
(e) pedestrian traffie;
(f) road safety;
(g) coordination policies and management;
(h) monitoring, evaluation and financial aspects;
and of urban planning;
(i) infrastructure planning;
(j) management systems and administrative legislation;
(k) economics;
(1) sociology and demography;
(m) physical planning;
(n) project management; and
(o) facility programming.



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
16.       Discussions are under way in the Ivory Coast to determine appropriate
foreign institutions to assist in staffing and organizing courses and final
proposals are expected by negotiations.
II. SECONDARY CITIES
A.  MUNICIPAL TECHNICAL SERVICE DEPARTMENTS IN DALOA AND KORHOGO
Technical Advisers to Directors of the Municipal Technical Service
17.       In each of the project cities an expert will be established to
assume the function of Technical Adviser to the Director of the Municipal
Technical Services Department. These experts shall have an engineering degree
with additional qualifications in sanitary and/or infrastructure engineering.
They shall have a minimum of five years experience in the management of such
services and should demonstrate good skills in the training of staff. They
shall advise and assist the Directors of the municipal technical services on
all aspects of management and should particularly give advice on:
(a) organization of routine maintenance of secondary road networks,
drainage networks, markets and public open spaces, as well
as maintenance of public administrative buildings and primary
schools;
(b) organization of garbage collection services, collection
routes and solid waste disposal;
(c) reviewing project drawings, bidding documents and specifications;
(d) coordination, supervision and monitoring of works to be
executed by the MPWT and MCU and/or public enterprises;
(e) preparation of annual operating and investment budgets;
(f) training of counterparts and local technical staff;
(g) preparing periodic activity reports; and
(h) monitoring and assessing effectiveness of service performance.
Technical Adviser for Administrative and Financial Affairs
18.       Technical Advisers for administrative and financial affairs will be
seconded to the municipalities of Daloa and Korhogo. They shall have a degree
in public administration management with additional qualifications in finan-
cial affairs. They should have a minimum of five years experience in similar
jobs, of which at least two years in developing countries. They shall:



- 61 -
ANNEX 1
(a) assist the existing accounting service to improve local
tax collection;
(b) participate in the organization of municipal accounting
service in order to set up effective budgeting systems;
(c) provide adequate training for local counterparts and sub-
ordinate staff;
(d) cooperate with Central Government experts in assessment of
urban property tax revenues;
(e) prepare periodic activity reports;
(f) monitor and assess project implementation; and
(g) participate in the establishment of annual operating and
investment budgets.
B. MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION AND URBANISM
Technical Adviser to the Director of the Central Directorate
of Urbanism (DCU)
19.       He shall have a degree in Architecture and Urban Planning and
experience in cities in developing countries. He shall be fluent in French.
His assignment shall be for two and a half years. HIe shall, inter alia:
(a) be responsible for the monitoring of the secondary cities
component of the projec-;
(b) prepare the project implementation schedule and ensure that
implementation aspects of the construction and equipping
of the project institutions are properly coordinated;
(c) ensure that contractors are meeting performance standards,
as reflected in the specifications;
(d) assist the Directorate of Construction in the preparation
of model bidding documents for the calling of construction bids;
(e) participate in monitoring of the preinvestment study;
(f) train counterparts;
(g) assist DCU staff in day-to-day operations;
(h) participate in the preparation of periodic progress reports
for the Government and the Bank.



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Technical Adviser to the Director of the Central Directorate
of Construction (DCC)
20.       He shall have a degree in civil engineering or buildings.  Part of
his professional career shall have been spent in developing countries. He
shall be fluent in French. His assignment shall be for one and a half years.
He shall coordinate his work with the Architect attached to the DCU in charge
of monitoring the secondary cities component. He shall assist and advise the
Director of the Directorate of Construction of MCU on the construction of
the community facilities included in the project, in particular:
(a) preparation of the project implementation schedule and
construction of the project installations;
(b) with the Architect at DCU review the architectural drawings
to ensure that space provisions and specifications are
interpreted correctly so as to minimize changes during con-
struction and after acceptance and approval of bids;
(c) preparation of bidding documents and review of specifications;
(d) preparation of model bidding documents for the calling of con-
struction bids;
(e) drafting of bidding notices for bids, other standard documents
for inviting bids and model bidding documents and determining
the method to be used for obtaining bids in accordance with
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits";
(f) establishing procedures and criteria for the evaluation of
bids and evaluating bids received for goods required for the
project;
(g) arranging for the safe custody and the proper delivery of goods
to the project institutions and installation, in accordance with
the target dates in the implementation schedule;
(h) monitoring and evaluating progress including site visits;
(i) inspection of completed buildings with the architects prior to
their delivery to the authorities and supervising the prepara-
tion of final certificates for payment due on completion;
(j) training of counterparts;
(k) helping in preparation of a community facilities component
for a third urban project; and
(1) preparation of periodic progress reports for the Government
and the Bank.



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
III. PREINVESTMENT PROGRAMMING STUDY FOR SECONDARY CITIES
(Summary of Terms of Reference)
21.       The objective of the study is as follows:
(a)  to assist Government in finding and implementing administrative
mechanisms responding more adequately to secondary cities'
needs in technical, administrative and financial management;
(b)  to contribute to the elaboration of an efficient programming
system for public investments in secondary cities, which
would enable Government on the one hand, to maximize economic
output on a macro-economic level, and on the other hand, to
satisfy as best as possible, needs of the local population;
(c)  to prepare the basis of a third urban development project
which would mainly foeus on development of the secondary
cities.
22.  (a)  The study will principally focus on:
(i) analysis of existing administrative procedures and
regulations dealing with management of secondary cities
and regional investment allocation. It will pay parti-
cular attention to identification of administrative
bottlenecks which might be the cause of regional
disparities that show up in secondary cities' development
patterns;
(ii)  effectiveness of liaisons currently used between local
authorities representing the population and Central
Government and its related agencies; and
(iii)  complexity of the fiscal system;
(b)  proposals for improved investment programming systems which
would be based on increased participation of local population
and authorities. Proposals will be elaborated on the outcome
of close monitoring of the pilot programs in the two cities
of the second urban development project. The study will
also identify possible new institutional arrangements through
continuous dialogue with Government officials during the
whole of the period of implementation, both on the local and
Central Government level in order to improve overall effective-
ness of nationwide investment programming and execution.
23.       Results of the study are likely to form the basis of a third urban
development project directed to several secondary cities and smaller urban
centers to be selected by Government.



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
IVORY COAST
Second Urban Project
SOTRA
FINANCIAL FORECASTS TO 1983/84
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        This note comments on the financial forecasts set out in Tables 1, 2
and 3 attached and discusses the assumptions made in these forecasts and the
results shown. SOTRA is about to introduce ferry boat services as part of
its integrated passenger transport operations. This will obviate many long
land journeys around the lagoons in Abidjan and is an important aspect in the
rationalization of passenger movements. No assessment has been made of the
financial and operational implications of this, but it should be covered in
the technical study referred thereafter.
B. FORECAST REVENUE ACCOUNTS - Table 1
2.        The attached statement at Table 1 sets out a basic financial forecast
for SOTRA's Revenue Account to the year 1983/84 based on the following
assumptions:
(a) There is no increase in SOTRA's fleet beyond the 30 September 1980.
Capital investment beyond that date relates to maintaining fleet
levels obtaining in 1979/80;
(b) That the recent decline in productivity will stabilize;
(c) That in 1980/1981 urban service accounted for 70% of total
operational revenues, with the express and taxi services
accounting for 10% of each, and the university and tourist
services 7% and 3% respectively. These basic ratios will
subsist through 1983/1984. Fare increases are assumed
to be effective for only half of 1980/1981.
(d)  That the following fare increases will take place in 1980/1981;
Urban service        -  25%
Taxi services        -  60%
Express service      -  56%
University service  -  35%
Tourist service      -  30%



- 65 -                               ANNEX 2
SOTRA
Table 1: FORECAST REVENUE ACCOUNTS
(CFAF million)
1979-80      1980-81      1981-82      1982-83      1983-84
INCOME
Traffic Receipts                    14,650       17,027       19,070       20,896       23,074
Miscellaneous                          150          173          193          213          234
14,800       17,200       1.9,263      21,189       23,308
EXPENSES
Employees                            9,720       10,576       11,633       12,796       14,076
Fuel, Oil and Tyres                  3,170        3,722        4,280        4,922        5,415
Spare Parts                          3,855        4,520        5,928        5,928        6,895
Admin. etc.                          1,950        2,001        7,201        2,422        2,664
18,695       20,819       23,312       26,118       29,030
OPERATING DEFICIT                       3,895        3,619        4,049        4,929        5,722
DEPRECIATION - Fixed assets               330          316          566           566          566
- Rolling Stock           2,175        3,363        3,376        3,503        3,906
2,505        3,679        3,942        4,069        4,472
INTEREST - Short Term                     344          200          -              25           -
- Long Term                     999        2,021         1,963        1,978        2,060
1,343        2,221        1,963        2,003        2,060
TOTAL DEFICIT                           7,743        9,519        9,954       11,001       12,254
Working Ratio                          1.26         1.21         1.21         1.23          1.25
Operating Ratio                        1.52         1.81         1.52         1.52         1.53
Note: Assumes no expansion investnment beyond 1979-80.



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
(e) That labor and general cost inflation will be at 10% except that
fuel and spare parts will be at 15% per annum;
(f) That capital costs for the replacement of buses will increase
by 15% per annum and this is reflected in the depreciation
calculations;
(g) For the purposes of calculating interest it has been assumed that
SOTRA's deficits will be made good by the Ivorian Government.
Thereafter fare increases will match the anticipated rates of inflation as
follows: 1981/82: +12%; 1982/83: +10%; 1983/84: +10%. Miscellaneous
revenues increases are assumed to match annual rates of inflation as above,
with 1980/81 being +15%.
3.        The forecasts clearly show that SOTRA will be faced with a fairly
rapidly increasing total deficit despite anticipated steep fare increases .
in 1980/81 and smaller annual increases through 1983/84 to match projected
annual rates of inflation. Assuming the fare increases in 1980/81 are opera-
tional for at least a half of the fiscal year, 1980/81 estimated deficit is
still expected to be about CFAF 9-5 billion (US$38.0 million), and to use to
about CFAF 12-3 billion (US$49.0 million) by 1983/84. The Ivorian Government
is committed to the fairly high level of subsidies to cover anticipated deficits
in the SOTRA's operations and these subsidies will no doubt have substantial
repercussions on the Government's budget. If the deficit is, however, not
covered by subsidy, SOTRA's problems will be exacerbated by the need to have
resource to short term borrowing which will incur the penalty to interest
payments which in turn will add to the total deficit.
C. FORECAST BALANCE SHEET - Table 2
4.        This has been prepared on the basis of the following assumptions:
(a) Fixed assets are increasing for the purchase of replacement buses
only including 15% inflation per annum;
(b) Urban buses have depreciated on a seven year life, express buses
on a five year life and other vehicles over four years;
(c) Stocks are increasing at the rate of 15% inflation per annum with
some growth beyond 1980/81 to allow for the full year effect of
buses introduced in 1979/80;
(d) Debtors reflect the unpaid Government subsidy in 1979/80 but this
is assumed to be made good by 1981. Debtors thereafter assumed
to be about 5% of operating receipts.
(e) Cash reflects the movements in other balances and shows an improving
situation on the basis that the Ivorian Government pays the subsidy



TABLE 2
SOTRA
FORECAST BALANCE SHEETS TO 1984
YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30
(CFAF million)
1980    1980      1981    1981       1982    1982       1983    1983       1984    1984
FIXED ASSETS                                 27,205            28,278             30,721             34,185             38,485
Less Accumulated Depreciation              (8,736)          (12,415)           (16,357)           (20,426)           (24,898)
NET FIXED ASSETS                           18,469            15,863             14,364             13,759             13,587
CURRENT ASSETS
Stock                              693                797               917              1,054              1,212
Debtors                          4,556               910                963              1,059              1,165
Cash                            _                    430              _                     85              1,588
5,249             2,137              1,880              2,198              3,965
LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES
Creditors                        3,590             4,100              1,998              2,222              2,535
Bank Overdraft                  3,942              __                 1                   __                __
7,532             4,100              3,096              2,222              2,535
NET CURRENT ASSETS                         (2,283)            (1,963)           (1,216)               X4)                1,430
TOTAL NET ASSETS                           16,186            13,900             13_148             137235              -15,0lJ7
REPRESENTED BY
CAPITAL AND RESERVES                        1,895             1,895              1,895              1,895              1,895
LOANS                                      14,291            12.005             11,253             11,840             1 3 122
16,186            13,900             ___13,148          115
Debt/Equity Ratio                            7.5:1              6.3:1             5.9:1               6.2:1               6.9:1
Note: Assumes no expansion investment beyond 1979-80.



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
required to balance the revenue account each year; expenditures
have been reduced by 6.6% for 1981/82 through 1983/84, on account
of tighter budgeting management;
(f) Creditors represent about 40% of appropriate expenditure in
1979/80 and this has been retained at the same level in 1980/81.
From 1981/82 creditors have been assumed at the level of two
months payments of appropriate expenditure;
(g) Capital has been increased by CFAF 1 billion in 1980 and no
further increases have been assumed;
(h) It is assumed that all replacement capital investment will be
financed from loan.
5.        The forecast balance sheets show an improving cash situation simply
because of the basic assumption that SOTRA's deficits will be made good by
the Government. Although it is assumed that replacement capital investment
will be financed from loan, it is likely in the event that with an improving
cash situation, some investment could be financed from internal resources.  On
the assumptions stated the debt equity ratio falls from 7.5:1 to 6.9:1 which
is still considered to be unsatisfactory.
D. SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUND STATEMENT - Table 3
6.        This statement starkly demonstrates the effect of the Government
subsidy requirement if no action is taken on SOTRA's fare levels. Apart from
this the statement is self-explanatory.
E. MEANS OF CAPITAL FINANCING
7.        SOTRA has derived its finance for capital investment at generally
favorable terms from a variety of sources as follows:
Rolling Stock and Equipment
(a)  40% financing from deferral of customs duty for 10 years at
6% per annum;
(b) 35% financing from French banks under an export guarantee for
five years at 7.5% plus the guarantee fee, now about 1.3% per
annum;
(c)  25% financing from French Banks for 10 years, including five
of grace, at the prevailing Paris rate plus 1.5%.



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
SOTRA
Table 3: SOURCES AND APPLTCATIONS OF FUNDS
CFAF millions
1979-80   1980-81   1981-82   1982-83   1983-84
SOURCE',
Government Subsidies                 5,873     9,519      9,954    11,001    12,254
Depreciation                         2,287     3,679      3,942      4,069      4,472
Loans Raised                         8,868     1,073      2,443      3,464      4,300
New Capital                          1,000       -          -          -          -
Increase in Creditors                  740       510        -          274        313
18,768    14,781    16,339    18,808    21,339
APPLICATION
Fixed Assets                        9,978      1,073      2,443      3,464      4,300
Repa,ment of Loans                   2,177     3,359      3,195      2,877      3,018
Increase in Stocks                     143       104        120        137        158
Net Operating Deficit                7,743     9,519      9,954    11,001    12,254
Decrease in Creditors                  -         -        2,152        -          -
Increase/(Decrease) in Debitors       -       (3,646)        53         96        106
20,041    10,409    17,917    17,575    19,836
Increase (Decrease) in cash         (1,273)    4,372    (1,518)    1,233        1,503
1L,768    14,781    16,339    18,808    21,339



TABLE 4
SOTRA
REVENUE ACCOUNTS
(CFAF million)
1974       1975       1976        1976/77        1977/78            1978/79
(9 mos)
Total Income                              4,240       4,887      4,036      4,363           9,828              12,879
Expenses
Employees                              2,007       2,395     2,272       3,659          5,792                7,643
Fuel, Oil, Tyres                         690         923        900      1,526          1,971                2,167
Spare Parts                              572         658        771      1,405          1,866                2,621
Administration, Etc.                     343         405        387      1,032          1,547                2,238
Total    3,612       4,381     4,330       7,622         11,176               14,669
Operating Surplus/(Deficit)                 628         506       (294)       (259)        (1,348)             (1,790)
Depreciation:-Fixed Assets                   63          74         60        111             199                 260
Rolling Stock                429         521        336         564          1,288               1,674
Total      492         595        396        675          1,487                1,934
Interest                                     62         122       150         443            941                1,068
Total Surplus/(Deficit)                      74        (211)      (840)    (1,377)        (3,776)              (4,792)
Working Ratio                             0.85        0.90      1.07        1.04           1.14                1.14
Operating Ratio                           0.97        1.02      1.17        1.13           1.29                1.29



TABLE 5
SOTRA
CFAF MiIlion                                     Balance Sheets To 1978/79                                          l                       l
1974        1974        1975        1975        1976        1976        1977        1977        1978         1978        1979         1979
(9 months)
FIXED ASSETS                                             3 868                    5 253                  5 642                   12 030                   15 049                   17 227
Less accubulated Depreciation                         (1 968)                  (2 346)                (2 622)                  (3 123)                  (4 544)                  (6 449)
NET FIXED ASSETS                                         1 900                    2 907                  3 020                     8 907                  10 505                    10 778
CURRENT ASS6TS
Deferred Depreciation                                                211                     211                       211
Stock                                         102                    158                     218                       388                     469                     550
Debtors                                       383                    415                     953                    2 039                    6 006                  2 686
Payuents in Advance                           166                    272                      86                      172                      181
Cash                                           26                     43                      22                       218                      47                      74
677                 1 099                   1 490                     3_028                   6_703                   3 310
LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES7
Funds                                          15                      7                        2                      -                        _
Creditors                                     511                    873                   1 447                    1 363                    1 734                  2 850
Bank Overdraft etc                            385                    595                     797                    2 525                    6 374                  2 742
911_                1_475                   2_246                     3 ,3888                 8108                    5 592
NET CURENT ASSETS                                          (234)                    (376)                   (756)                   (860)                  (1 405)                  (2 282)
TOTAL NET ASSETS                                         1 666                     2 531                   2 264                   8 047                    9 100                    8 496
REPRESENTEDBY
CAPITAL AND RESERVES                                     435                       885                     892                     889                      890                      896
LOANS - LONG & MEDIUM                                  1 179                     1 146                     912                   5 708                    6 405                    5 931
- SHORT                                            -                        500                     460                    1 450                   1 805                     1 669            w
- OTHER BALS                                        52
1 666                    2 531                   2 264                   8 047                    9 100                    8 496
DEBT/EQUIry RATIO                                         2.8:1                    1.9:1                   1.5:1                   8.1:1                    9.2:1                     8.5:1
DC/CG
9 JUNE 1980



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Construction
(a) 65% financing from local banks in consortium for 10 years at
9.5% plus the indirect tax on interest resulting in an effective
interest cost of almost 11.75 per annum;
(b)  35% financing from French Banks for 10 years, without any grace
period, at the Paris rate plus 1.5%.
F. TECHNICAL STUDY
Draft Terms of Reference
General
The technical study of the Societe des Transports Abidjanais will
be undertaken as a component of the Ivory Coast Second Urban Project. The
objectives of the study will embrace the various factors affecting the financial
and operational viability of SOTRA and the company's role in the Abidjan
transportation network and will aim to produce a five year operational and
financial plan.
Fare levels and structure
(a) To examine the past trends in fare levels in the context of the
deteriorating financial position including the changes in real
terms value in relation to the purchasing power of the CFAF;
(b) To examine the present fare structure and its appropriateness in
the light of the recent rapid expansion of SOTRA's services and
network. To examine the scope of extending the fare structure
from the present basic flat fare system;
(c)  To make recommendations on future fare levels and structures
within the five year plan period as part of an overall financial
strategy;
(d) To examine the system for present concessions to Government
workers, uniformed officials and students with a view to
determining a method of proper reimbursement to SOTRA by
responsible authorities;
(e)  To examine the charging levels and structure for SOTRA's
peripheral services i.e. express, taxi-baggage and university
services with a view to moving towards a break-even situation
as quickly as possible.



- 73 -
ANNEX 2
Route Rationalizaton
(a)  To undertake a study to determine the present and future
areas and level of demand for SOTRA's services in the Abidjan
area;
(b)  To generate options on service patterns and networks to meet
the demands so identified, including frequency of service
within peak hours and non-peak hours, appropriate layover
times and other working practices;
(c)  To examine ways in which fleet resources can be optimized
in operating proposed services in order to maximize usage and
ensure that dead kilometrage is minimized;
(d)  To examine the viability and operational efficiency of
peripheral services (express, taxi-baggage and university
services) and in particular whether such services could be
met by the urban fleet outside of peak hours thus reducing
bus types and, therefore, unit costs;
(e)  To make recommendations on the rationalization of the Abidjan
network together with a commentary on future resources.
Subsidies
(a)  To examine the need for and likely level of government
subsidies within the five year plan period taking into
account recommendee fare levels, improvements in operational
efficiency and the size of SOTRA's fleet;
(b)  To examine options on the types of subsidy most appropriate
for SOTRA's situation a--' in particular:
(i)  The need for a continuation of the present system of
revenue deficit subsidies;
(ii) The need to formalize this approach into a "contract
subsidy" determined in advance of a financial year which
will form the basis of SOTRA's financial strategy for
that year;
(iii)  The consideration of some other form of subsidy such as
an annual capital grant as a contribution to SOTRA's
equity capital.
(c)  To examine the system for administering the payments of
subsidy to SOTRA to ensure an equitable cash flow.



- 74 -
ANNEX 2
Fleet Structure and Type
(a) To examine the fleet structure most appropriate to SOTRA's
operations including the standard and capital cost of bus
provision for the various activities.
(b) To consider on the supply side how this provision should be met;
(c) To determine the most appropriate life for each type of bus
taking into account the capital cost of provision, annual
maintenance costs and the cost of non-routine major repairs/
refurbishments;
(d) To determine a rolling investment program to achieve optimum
fleet size;
Productivity
(a) To examine trends in bus/employee productivity and determine
the reasons for the recent decline.
(b) To examine the relationship of the number of employees to total
fleet for each classification of employees and since 1974
and indicate an appropriate ratio to incorporate in the five
year plan;
(c)  To examine working practices, shift patterns crew scheduling
procedures to determine the scope for improved efficiency;
(d) To make recommendations to stabilize and improve future
productivity.
Infrastructure
(a) To examine the depot and workshop provision required to
efficiently service SOTRA's present and future fleets;
(b)  To indicate an investment program arising from the conclusions
in 7(i).
Five Year Operational and Financial Plan
(a)  To incorporate the findings of the study into a five year
rolling plan which will include:
(i) a statement on provision of services--expansion of
existing services--introduction of new services;
(ii)  a five year capital investment program for fleet replace-
ments, fleet expansion/reduction, and infrastructure
provision;



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
(iii) a forecast of total operating expenditure arising from
the above; and
(iv) a fare and subsidy strategy to cover total operating
expenditure over the period.
Boat Operations
To examine the relationship of the boat operations, and the bus
network to optimize the passenger transport network.
Economic Justification for Subventions
To examine the wider issues of subsidies and their impact on the
Ivorian economy together with the opportunity cost implications of such
subsidies.



- 76 -
ANNEX 3
IVORY COAST
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILES
A. BACKGROUND REPORTS
1.   République de Côte d'Ivoire - Plan quinquennal de développement économique,
social et culturel 1976-1980.
2.   Préparation du Plan 1981-1985 - Urbanisme:  Villes de l'Intérieur:
synthese des 44 villes, 1979.
3.   Bilan diagnostique régional:  Centre-ouest - Ministère de l'Economie, des
Finances et du Plan. Direction du Développement Régional, 1979.
4.   Bilan diagnostique régional: Nord - Ministère de l'Economie, des Finances
et du Plan. Direction du Développement Régional, 1979.
5.   Enquête Budget - Consommation, Ministère de l'Economie, des Finances et
du Plan. Direction de la Statistique, 1979.
6.   Ten-Year Development Study (March 1979).
B. TRANSPORTATION
1.   Priority Action Programs
Junction improvements: Detailed engineering (1:200 scale)
- Boulevard de Gaulle/Avenue 13
-  Boulevard Lagunaire Ouest/Sortie du quartier Attiecoube
- Route du Zoo/Sortie du quartier Ebrie
- Boulevard de Gaulle/Avenue Jacob Williams
- Boulevard d'Antananarivo
- Boulevard de Gaulle/Liberté
-  Boulevard du Gabon/Rue Pierre et Marie Curie
Implementation Program 1981-1983.



- 77 -
ANNEX 3
2.   Traffic Management Plans
Surveys, analyses and final design
- Treichville
- Marcory and Koumassi
- Adjame
3.   Pedestrian Improvements
- Accident analysis and preliminary engineering drawings.
4.   Public Transport
- Western Bypass - Revised engineering drawings based on detailed
engineering studies (available in Central Files, dated October
1975).
-  Banco Primary Road Network:  Terms of reference for modifications
to detailed engineering studies (available in Central Files,
dated April 1978).
5b.   SOTRA
- Proposed Depot: detailed engineering.
- Report prepared by London Transport Services Ltd.
- A Financial Analysis of the Company's Performance 1974-1978/79
by L. Clarke, Urbar Projects Department, March 1980.
- Report by J. Bloom, Consultant (April 1980).
-  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to the Transport
Planning Unit.
6.   Safety
-  Draft Terms of Reference for assistance to the National Road
Safety Agency.
- Securité routière - Review of road safety in the Ivory Coast.
7.   Bouake
- Proposal for the establishment of a bus service for Bouake:
BCET, March 1980.



- 78 -
ANNEX 3
8.   General
-  Transport Component.  Report by D. Barrett, Consultant.  March 1980.
-  Urban Rail Service:  Feasibility Studies by SOFRETU, Paris.  December
1978 and May 1979.
9.   -  Transport Component.  Economic analysis.  Working papers by
J-F. Allouche, Consultant.
-  Révision des hypothèses de demande de trafic automobile (matrice O/D
1985) dated March 1980.
-  Voirie primaire de Banco:  Projet d'exécution (March 1981).
-  Méthodologie de l'évaluation économique des composantes transports
(March 1980).
-  Besoins en recueil de donnees de transport (June 1980).
-  Difficulté théorique pour le calcul d'un taux de rentabilit interne
particulière à chaque troncon (June 1980).
-  Evaluation préliminaire Bd. Lagunaire ouest/Voie de dégagement ouest
(July 1980).
-  Economic evaluation of the transport component (August 1980).
C. SECONDARY CITIES
1.   Daloa:  Etude d'urbanisme.  Rapport préliuinaire BCEOM, January 1980.
2.   Daloa:  Programme de développement urbain.  BCEOM, May 1980.
3.   Daloa:  Programme de développement urbain:  Projet d'exécution.  BCEOM.
4.   Korhogo:  Plan d'urbanisme directeur.  BNETD - SCET Ivoire, June 1977.
5.   Korhogo:  Plans d'urbanisme de détail.  BCET - SCET Ivoire, December 1978.
6.   Korhogo:  Programme d'opérations d'aménagement.  BCET, December 1979.
7.   Korhogo:  Programme de développement urbain.  BCET, May 1980.
8.   Korhogo:  Projet de développement urbain:  Avant-projet détaillé -
W2XEX S,r te,e,  X3qG.
9.   Stratégie d'investissement public dans les villes de l'intérieur.  Projet
de termes de référence. Harter, IBRD consultant, June 1980.
10. Loi relative aux charges et resources communales (1980).



- 79 -
IVORY COAST                                      Ansea 4
SECOND EJB8AN PROJECT
Table 1
Transport Comparant
Detailed Cvas Essissates (Base Casas at Nalreh 31, 7.9S1_
(CFAF illiara)
Praj eco Items                                ratai Base                 Cac-otnts par ear
c-n             ERRE        1982          1983         1984   1985
A.  EXPRESS BUS NETWORB
Parc à Bais Road                                             1,190            10           320          320           320   220
WBatcra By-paa6-   2tae.oanh-Careaa                          2,040                        5S0           6û0           600   340
Attiacasbh  Liak Road                      250                         BO           170
Carena-Hloouphouer aBigny BridRe           180                         10            80           90
Eqaipnent                                  49Q                                       BE           190   B90
Truak S-eer                                450           140          290            20            -     -
Euh-totaS (A)           4,600           E5B        1,20E        l'ZEg         1,200   R50
B.  BUS OPEPATION IMPREEFMENTS
Pao Termials                                                    4E0                        lBS           180          100    90
Aroa  Rn.oads                                                   330                         90            90          9E     60
Nus Stops and Ehelorra                                          160                         BE           89
SEhea  Inrcrrhange EtarEoa Ilcrramenett                         3BO                        140            60         120      60
Eub-roraE (B)           1,340                         410          410         3Ec    210
C. BANCO PRIMARY ROAD NETWORK
Civil Works                                                  2,840                 -       900          900          90E    140
LiRghtmg                                                        150                                                         150
Equipment ad signalioatlos                                       50                                                           50
Euh-Cotai (C)           3,040                        9PO           900          900    340
D.  DEPOT FOR TEE  EUS CEPC -Y                                           820                        410          410
E.  TRAFFIC MANGE:IENT MEASURES
o. Adi me
Clati dorEs                                                330           70           260
CivilWorks          aNaco295                                                          295
Pao-rotai                  625          70            555
b. Xoorsassi
Civil carls                                                270                                      150         120
Equip-nct  ond nBgsuixoatroa                                85                                       50           30
Euh-toca                   3E50                                    200          15D
t. Roral-ra
Civil works                                                 32                                      280           40
E-aiptiec-  ond argnulEoutEca                               130                                     100           30
Sub-totoî                  450                                      380          70
d. Troichville
Paîblat Tranprt Iaprove=et                                  160                                      100          60
Civil wakp O35                                                                                        90          45
Equipment  and   ailealloa                                   55                                       10          45
Sub-rotal                  35n                                      200         150
Euh-CoraE  (F)           1,775             70          555          780          370
F.  PEDESTRIAN IMNROVEhENTS
Oaerpasses                                                      195                                      135           60
WEBk.a.s                                                        215                                       65          150
Sab-rorul (F)              410                                     200           210
C.  TRAFFIC PARI   EPMENT  MPROVEEMENTS
a. TraRfio Management NeccxAeen
Equipment                                                  220                           70          70            70      10
Civil  -orks                                               400 BlN                                  BN           110      70
Euh-total                  620                         BS0         180           180      80
b. Rùad Mtintenance Prograra
TraROEo lights                                             230                           65          65            65      35
Signalization uad msarkinE                                 28                           880          80            RN      40
CieBl  .rhs ,an  aafety cqipre-t                           260                           75          75            75      35
Sab-ratai                  770                         220         220           220    110
SBb-cotai (C)            1,390                         400         400           400    19E
H.  IECCLICAL ASSSTANCE
TIraffB  M .a.na8emnt Unît (BcEr) 040 san/eaths                 490             35           140         140          140       35
Public Works NatinaEl SchoEl (ENSTP) 42  mrn/sonrhs             147                           49          49            49
Supervision of oivil works (NCTP) 100  sas/masthc               350             17.5        105          105          105       17.5
B_us ampany (STRA) 65 scao/aaarha                               227.5           17.5          6           6O3           63      21
RosE  -afey  gen-y (OSER) 20 ma/conros                            70                                      35
Equipment and aePices                                           110.5            5             3           8             8      86.5
uSu-cotat  (H)           1,395             75          360          400          400      160
I.  DETAILED ENGINEERINE FOR  RBAcN RAIL SERvIcE  (058)                  620                          310        31E
TOTAL BASE CNST              15a390           295          4aa=       ad2O 9_ 2az22.="===



- 80 -
IVORY COAST                               Anene  4
SECOND URbAN PRSOJECT
Table 2
Secondary Cities Componeet
Detailed CTat Estimates (Base cents et Maroh 31, 1981)
(CFAF '000)
Total                   eeConit-ents per year
Prajeet Itees                       Base Cost      1981         1982         1983         1984
A.  PILOT PROGRAMS
a. Dala
1.  Roade in Dioulabougou neighbbrhoed                    207,500                 207,500
i  Hebersoe neighborhosd                        55,500                 2d,000       27,500
i  Extensioe Nord area                         364,800                             242,800      122,000
iL  Abattoir ares                               317,500                212,000      105,500
2.  Public Lighting in Hubereso neighborheed               20,600               -               20,600
iS  Abattoir ares                     34,900                               34,900
3.  Paving cf marknt areas - Central Market                81,200                               81,200
Orly Market                  58,500                 58,500
Abattoir Market             50,000                                             5,000
Sob-totol (a)        1,190,500                 506,000      512,500     172,000
b. Kerhogo
1.  Street improvement - Street A                         106,000                 106,000
Street G                         83,300                 B3,300
Street K                         13,900                              13,900
Street L                         43,200                              21,600       21,600
2.  Public lighting    - Street A                          11,700                               11,700
Street C                          7,800                  7,800
Street L                          2,100                                            2,100
3.  Paving sf fie neighbbrhood markets                   128,400                  51,300       51,400       25,700
4.  Parking ares for Centrol Market                        41,000                               20,500       20,300
5.  Tountry Bus Station                                    83,400                               33,400
6.  Track Parking Areo                                       7,000                               7,000
7.  Co=unity FPcilities  -  Clinic                         28,800                  2S,800
Repoir ef Prinary Scobohs   54,500                  21,800       21,800       10,900
Social Center               53,400                               53,400
Sob-total (b)          664,500                 299,000      284,700       80,800
total (A)            1,852,000                 805,000      797,200      249,800
S. MJUNICIPAL SERVICES
a. Saoie
1.  Monicipal Garage Bsilding                             101,700                 101,700
2.  Mainteeance Equip-ent                                 104,700                  90,800       13,900
3.  Corbage colEectioe Equipeent                          114,100                  21,300       92,800
4.  Operating Cents                                        44,600                  24,800       14,800        5,000
Sub-total (a)          365,100                 238.600      121,500        5.000
b. Yorhogo
1.  Municipal Garage Building                              70,300                  70,300
2. Maintenance Equipnent                                   90,200                               90,200
3.  Operating Costn                                        76,900                  34,200       25,600       17,100
Sub-total (b)          237,400                 104,500      115,800       17,100
Tetal (B)              602,500                 343,100      237,300      22,100
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.  Central Covernmeet (35 eae-.n- th.)                   122,500    35,000        52,500       35,000
2.  MseieieaIitv sf Doles (30 ean--nthe5                  105.000                  52.500       52.500
3.  MunicipaIity of Korhbgo (30 ran-.onths)               105,000                  52,500       52,500
Total (C)              332,500    35,000       157,500     140,000
D. STODIES
1.  Pre-iovestment study                                  250,000    37,500       165,000       47,500
2. Miscellaneous etudies                                  120,000                  50,000       50,000       20,000
Total (D)              370,000    37,500       215,000       97,500       20,000
TOTAL BASE COST                                         3,160.000    72,500   1,520,600   1,272,000         294,900



IVORY COAST
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Structure of the Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
Mint ter t
1
_                                                _                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cabinet
Inspection of
DirDctorates
and Services
Affair a. fPrgram nf  Technic nal Advisers
SupervisedrPectraonel                      Inetat                  B     ORU                    evcsHdalc                                   S- etudel andendtral ft
Cu-ientroal              DCveintra                                       SDirectorate
Agencies        Aobdminisrae             Sb-ietrative                Aeional                 Dir tqipen               HdictraulcDviino                               of Loand Transpor
sousgtnismes            nd F inancis             of  ras                                        and DirectMerang em Eiprent    tuics                 pteraate                 Organtion
- __                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and T ransportation,
Sub-Di,ectorate                                                                                      Division of ~~~~~~~~~iviionofSub-DireCtôrat
r  BCET                                      S | Sub Mn,ctorate  |    rub-Directorate |   I    _   | Sub-Dirsctorate |    |   Division of            ontr erS lv     of     Dat S Droctrieg
of AdminiMaitenaceativeD
I I - ~~~~~Affir and                         of Programs and                  II| of Technical                              General                  Sewerage               Regutations|
;  ]      l    6   ^, ai~Pesoannel       |    nvestments            ABENGOUROU |           |     Services                Hydraulics              Studiers an            and Road Safety 
VVorks ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     WrdBek-  27
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u-ietot DCGTXoo                                                                                                           Sub-DirecIor t
l           l   j  ~~~~~Sub-Directo ate        Sub-Directorate |    |    ABIDJAN                of" Equb-ipmentote  |-lydraulic                    DiFvision ; of        of Road Transport|
[   '           1    ~~~~~of Finances            of Roads                         -           anid Management |      |      Studioss             Water Manage-         |Organization 
|  ENSTP  l    I   l    I   .    I            E        I                                                     n  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and Pollution |
L_   X   I                    l    l    BOUAKE         l                                                l     l    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Control   
I   .                               j ~~~~~~~~~~~~Directorate of  |    _                                            Division of                                |Sub-Directorate|
I  SETU        l                              t Routine Road  |                                                         | Water Supolv                                      of Data Proressi-ng|
,   I                        |  ~~~~~~~~Maintenance   ;                                                                    j
|  SODECI  l                        | ~~~~~~~~Directorate of  |                 .-                                                                                 Sub-Directorate 
_|Defferred Road |. l                                                                                                      |of Road Transport|
|   ,                        |  ~~~~~~~~~Maintr,nance      K  KRHOGO   ||Coordination |
|  RAN 
1                                                                       MAN
|   OTU        |l                                                               s        _
|  OSER  
LBTP                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank -22877



-82 -
IVORY COAST
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Structure of the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism
|  Cabirnet               
Inspectioni of       Autonomous
Directorates       Agenicy for Civii
and Services       Servarnt Housing
Cntral                  Ceta                    Cettrl                Central            Dietrt
DrcoaeCnrlCnrlDirectorate                                                        Directorate
of Urbanr        _    Directorate of     _      Directorate       of Adrministralive      of Vocational
Land                  Orbanism              of Constructiori        Builig                 Training
Sub-Directorate |           Sub-Directorate 
of Urbanism                 of Architecture|
Sub-Directorate
of Laws and      Sub-Directorate
Housing Policy         o  oituto
Sub-DirctorateSub-Directorate
of Hosn                 of Public Building
of Housing Maintenance
|Sub-Directorate
|of Urban VWorks
_and Topographical
Surveys
_Sub-Directorate
of Regional Action
Worid Bank -22878



IVORY COAST
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Structure of the Ministry of Interior
Minister
Cabinet
|    utonomous  | |       Autonomous Agency for Official 1
Agency for          Travel and Independence Day Celebration |
Dîrectorate General of          Directorate of                Directorate of                Directorate of                Directorate of              NaDirectorate of
erritorial Administration          Personnel                 Financial Affairs               Civil Defense               National Archives        |             Price
ôDirectorate of General  |                             j      Sub-Directorate    l                                _l      Sub-Directorate               Sub-Directorate
1_ and Political Affairs   |of Boudgetand                                       l                                 1       of Historical                 of Printshop
Sub-Directorate
r   Directorate of Local  |                           |       Sub-Directorate                                           of Administrative              Sub-Directorate
L   Authorities  l                                1       of Equipment                                                Archives and                of Official Gazette
Documentation
n;i recto rrate of Territorial                                                                                                                                   a
L   Divisions  
WVorld Bank -21848



84  --
E  o                    - -  -C      -    -                              r-
E        1
D                                                              IL   - -   
C                r________________ 
oDéX           I ci
.~~~~~ Ca X  
I                                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~L i 
f     I                              < A
2E;cE  2E1 I



IBRD 15081
Qi<    , _01 ,t j    ng                                   - u         e xW_ _t,
20,000
EqkEssEcou~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cosruto
IENNE~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Qd
`~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.i   0``8 #%   w4rt.  ;`,I
:~~~~~~~~~     ~       ~   ~    ~~~~~                       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       ~~~~~ à`  ;h&,ndro4fj  2   oW/t e  ^ e ' IvoPY iss S
'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~u  n e O                                                         01   Nr lujLMEERk0:<     obndé tAflA20,
TG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOEGS~.4- 
f3~~~~~~~~~~~~~UAF~~~~~~j                                                 c  ce
N'do~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Soubr          MQ~~~~~~~r___________________________________
4.                                                                                    ___________________________________________________ ____________S__ken






IBRD 15082
NOVEMBER 1980
4ANYAMA
IVORY COAST;
SECOND URBAN PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                       Y
ABIDJAN LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
_siing
Urban arens
Mtinn ronds and streets                                                                                     J
R- lwaiys W                                                                                                                                           ABOBO-NORD
Proposed urban rail service
First Pro ect
I!   Community faciIities
EL   ] i ast-West  ighwy                                                                                                         --Bo--;
Si:"i Stes and services areas
$'yJ  Upgroding area s
Trunk sewers                                               .                                  \U:                    Az  PA A' K
Secorid Proiect                                                       F R   O  R    S             \
Express bus network
Irmffic management schemes (low income areCs)
.Rocd construction
Bus station improvements                                                                                                                                            PLATEAUX
Bus depot
Access control                                                                                                                          AR
-- Ab,djon ~otticipa1 baanduty
O     I    2    3    4        S KILOMETERS                         1     -tJte
ri/ .ap ha- be-n patarpard by tho War/d BSok soa-ff r tclusivey for t/t coavneaca-
//of toor.daro :f t/t ,apart ta ai/t/ch it ta atoachad rho deoaataatno/ts Lsed oaan t/to  C J(  Yapaa9To- /ou/O                                \            - -t4E`9(~~-'K   
dortman shonona attth/s m-p do not top/y on t/e patiotf /he Waf/d Bon/ atd /s
af/t/tatas iany agtttantan tac (Spatta tua afa  tn eratorv a,anyondorooraento a:5tX\2É  {drtek R   ><~ 
MAL9ER4   I    <")               X          (;\»OT-Loo                                               :, S R'o)                '  \N
Gd2UINEA  i~tn
r a r l c   I Y  ---Y                                                                               _-----A,,
OC?Gl/ OFIBE R   V Zi 4 G fV f A y  -
Ar A4NT/
C/CEA N                G5LIeF OF GL//NFA                a                                                                                                                     5U1N        A






IBRD 15339
IVCORY COAST
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENT MEASURES: ADJAME
EXISTING                                               PLATEAU TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT                                        ADJAME TRAFFIC  MANAGEMENT PROPOSALS
FIRST PROJECT;                                                    SECOND  PROJECT
-  Mainl Streets                                           Eost-West Hignwoy                                                 Ne. Rond Cons~truct,on-
Suds-up Areos-                                         Two-woy Buswuy                                                    Two - -uY BuSway
----RAN Raoeiays                                  --.-B,, L-nes                                                              Bus Stop lorprouements
O Sigdnoed junci;on!sr.    vret                                       u   ue
Troffic lmprovements                                        O     Signnlhzed Junction Ipoeet
On--oy Sirnees                                                   Pedestrion F-cifites
-lUpg,.ding A,eas                                                   O,,e-ausoStfeets
O    25            M
Th. h- b.."~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
T0nipnobn,nnJ,jyh
-o,dnnks diO0h fhilf,
în,,~~~~~~~~~~~oonnfînnnaun,mnf ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~i
È!naoton,ni,aind
K ,Fnnnios,eadh
Oonae nng         n f4  i
B-k.npy   i,  i   anc  O
Wnm/0 n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~flk CouiC ,fni,»mCo, 00Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
,mmdunnm,m un inn uuoatati,S OS~~~~~~~~PlA TA                                                                                                  DUBANC
80f inimimnO' mi Ca mi nnunmCoinnni~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .... .






IBRD  15340
IVORY COAST                                                                                                          l
SECON:D~ U,,,IRBAN  PROJECT   C
`       TRAFFIC IMPROVEMP RT MEASURES TREICHVILLE, MARCQRY, KOUMASSI
-                                                                                                                                o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
,C Gs r = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                                                                                                                                           -
oe. ,war i, Syst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W  erm *su 
New  ltood Constrdo                                                              *                   u-<L
-  P- edestrioo Woys IFootpollrs
On-woy syrIr5
oD. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ o-
'- B I*p
F  P-                                                   '
C  uc,nIpoeensd7 ':                                                 ;{!lsU S5 .......";.je:1&                                                 : !!        iff.........    i* S|;,    li,;   ;!jEd;'                               ,i&d,  -           PI!-.............................. p    ,
>-On-wy ysen i(                                                                   ' .i:5:, : ,-, k  ;   s iii:':j|:'An° tu . p V,  >,5t  !;0&!  \i/SA
T  3.,,r`'!",p - :n: .." ,,",d 5ijd '' jA | ;N«0j'   tv ii :, ::   isL
SEODPOIC:  ' '                                o:g;'i r  rrd ig't@b' Ir. ,li ,  P,"2E:m'i rnrr O. i-5;!s  nsw5$| 'd' ; L  dA" 1 ' 
Ne   Rad*.               tuto                        ::            ,;                                  ;,,;eJA r t,    1                                                | r           s 3:ç'     diFddP         d        ie\'it   L                    ;3;ls'        t
Bse -nl  Srets/           f      À !   . va         jj  j          -                                                         .         .     "   W  i 09       t.;j s"i 15        e      i        L  lUi  i l^ -fi.li S  KA
o Bus od srdrou                                I -; ;té ` q!1!5 V   -Ù  1~013<   ;à   !r    ; r:  : L, '' i  *  
-~~~~~~*                                     4v-<                                                                        ertioWy  otoh -j7    ;t-Ç;E j.Ll;ii;0   15E>q S M- 
Onr~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~ < -wc   SytmST,:O.<I                                                                                                 V    li!<                        l' !2' ! r mnii  ., v    \       :B E,*-
4'.2         :v   2 X       !.vi~ 'À        k\\5. :.,r                                                                                                        i:; .j;r                  _-.r' dOg  v                         l: s 






r ________                        ____________________________________                                                    /                                                BRD 15084
IVORY COAST
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
SECONDARY CITIES: DALOA
Locations of Prolect Components
~~~~ ~~~~~                                              -I    U~~~~~~~~~~~rban,zed areas
'Y"  TAzI'~~~~~~~~~~«'6   "  "   I                ~~~~~~~~New housigorea
/   '       i        \                                   "                                               -        Pa,ed -ods
.  /     iffl  9   r)RI.d`\`>  Ç                        X          -                   \                                            __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'8    Pavred roads under c0nsiruction
\               /    ,/   \   \\   \   \  `\\  \  `  A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vr',- `'`, Rilvers / s trea nos
0 | t   \  \ >X;   f;  00; \   _  <                                                                  /                 ;      ` 5rre;et mprsv monts~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Stree  n po 0 e 
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z  M/0au ,urketplaceo  mprovenents 
'A~ Y\   'Ç                   Gnç,e lvle \  t                                                                                                                               \<- ". PeL, \.g J
F\ \ Y\EEsUr                                            i      >t                   \;\S
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y
Àoo~ ee                                                                                  R          d\ .  s
~~~le ~Il
GUIINEA       I                                                                                      -*--   - /I
I  VORY    C (ODA1T    \                                          \/IR
\     , \       P-                                                     / A'  r'  'V.   \seÉ19o5e                                                                            o d
o~~~~~~,                  'A1'  rfGe   0_                                   1 4 S/    






IBRD 15085
, «    ,                                                                                                     N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OVEM8ER 1980
!Sonzoribo,gou                   . 
- -1 Soozorîbougon  -Ahoussrdougou
Industriol  Zone
Delafosse
,  X   . -.,    ,   l   ,J  ,, \   "    >                                     .>>                    /                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Petit ,Pai-is ' * 
Kojko        Nord           -
IVORY COAST
T  ci 91 ----  vfi .    ,   _ 7SECOND URBAN PROJECT
SECONDARY CITIES: KORHOGO
Locations of Project Components
'  ''J-' |     '|''   'Urbanized oreas
Wgrp,epa,.d   r      -l* s sRff P  hdf  V                                                                                                                                         Central market
thsrmw.sowhJrh           -ah«/ t \ / Sinistré                                                                                                                                     Existing paved roads
Other important roads
ud-    VoZt0a-, 1s ;Rivers/streams
| -~ -  ~Channefized rivers
Street mprovements
f,! MAL l          UPPER                                                                          -R-  .'  * \   I 1 1 Roudsdde drains
9   p>.3, _<  VOLTA    (  -. Rcsidertiel q 1  1     l                             ~                           3           ,      Central market ora improvemrents
G-lU NEA    i     f          «          K    o    r     h    o    r     H    o         t         .         ~        :        ~        \                -      _      _irNeighborhood morkets
Cl,nmc
t'1   9   [5VORY  \ C OAST    \   >  .,               /                                                                                                        l « \   ,   ,.  <fffC    School repaîrs
S  )»   -' >   I              '                                               \     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Quartier 14  \D,                              oilcne
r  Soçmol cenSer
Z   p    \        : < ~GHANA                                                                   |;o                                  B ;
O  ~~O   uEr  ~dcO    8TEE    10 00
- LIBERIA  t.    A              , t          <ps5R                                                         Cz                           \          '          4           04      0     rl      t00     rs,o    10MEE
`    Abiln                vd\                                                                                           T                                               METERS



