Document of                FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reporl No. P-3109-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 6, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perflownce of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authrizatlen.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =       CFAF Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00              =        CFAF 250
CFAF 1 million               US$4,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =    0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 metric ton (m ton)        =    2,204 pounds (lbs)
1 hectare (ha)              =    2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)               10.76 square feet
1 liter (1)                 =    0.26 US gallons
1 cubic meter (m3)                264 US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCET    -   Bureau Central des Etudes Techniques
CAA     -   Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
DCTP    -   Central Directorate of Public Works
DCU     -   Central Directorate of Urbanism
SOTRA   -   Societe des Transports Abidjanais
URS     -   Service Urbain Ferroviaire
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Ivory Coast:  January 1 - December 31
SOTRA:                     October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of the Ivory Coast
Amount:         $51.0 million equivalent
Terms:          17 years, including 4 years of grace, at an interest rate
of 10.6 per annum.
Project
Description:   The project would improve the living conditions of low-income
populations in urban areas by developing a sound urban trans-
port system in Abidjan and increasing its efficiency, and by
assisting Government in its aim of shifting urban growth from
the capital to regional centers. The urban transport compo-
nent would provide transport infrastructure (expansion of the
high-speed express bus network, construction of prir-ary roads
in the low-income Banco area, pedestrian facilities, bus
terminals and a bus depot), traffic management measures and
programs to improve circulation (road maintenance, junction
improvements, traffic signals, etc.), technical assistance
in road safety, public transport management and traffic
management, and training of traffic engineers. The secondary
cities component would, on an experimental basis and on a
limited scale, provide Daloa and Korhogo with urban infra-
structure, equipment and materials to improve delivery of
municipal services, and technical assistance to the muni-
cipalities and the central Government to improve municipal
management and to carry out an investment programming study
for secondary cities.
The urban transport component does not face special risks.
Risks in the secondary cities component are the untested
efficiency of the municipalities, created in late 1980, and the
feasibility of introducing effective cost recovery mechanisms;
these may affect the pace of project implementation and its
replicability. The technical assistance included in the
project aims at reducing these risks which are inherent in the
pilot nature of this component.
This document hu a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance
of their official duties. ts contents may not otherwiso be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost
(in US$ million)                                      Local    Foreign    Total
Urban Transport
Infrastructure               21.3        18.0      39.3
Traffic management             7.8        6.4       14.2
Technical assistance          3.3        4.8        8.1
32.4       29.2       61.6
Secondary Cities
Infrastructure                3.8        3.6        7.4
Equipment and materials       0.9         1.5        2.4
Technical assistance           1.1       1.7        2.8
5.8        6.8       12.6
Contingencies
Physical                       3.8        3.6        7.4
Price escalation             11.0        11.4      22.4
14.8       15.0      29.8
GRAND TOTAL             53.0       51.0      104.0
(of which taxes)             31.2          -       31.2
Project cost net of taxes  21.8         51.0       72.8
Financing Plan:       The proposed loan would finance the estimated foreign
exchange cost of the project ($51.0 million) which
represents about 70 percent of total project costs net of
taxes. All local costs ($53.0 million) would be financed
by Government out of its investment budget.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                   US$ million
FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
Annual        0.5    15.5    14.0    18.5        2.5
Cumulative   0.5    16.0    30.0    48.5    51.0
Rate of Return:       32% for the urban transport component, which represents
over 80% of total project costs.
Appraisal Report:   No. 3236-IVC dated July 7, 1981.
Maps:                 IBRD-15082
IBRD-15084
IBRD-15085



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$51.0 million to
help finance a second urban development project. The loan would have a term
of 17 years, including four years of grace, with interest at 10.6 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic Report"
was circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977. Its principal
findings and conclusions, updated by Bank missions which visited the Ivory
Coast in 1978, 1979, and 1980, are incorporated in the following paragraphs.
Annex I provides basic country data.
Past Performance
3.        Throughout the 1960½s, Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at a high
annual rate of about 8.3 percent; however, during 1971-75, economic growth
slowed to an average of 5.6 percent per annum partly because of the effects
of adverse climatic conditions in the early years of the period, the impact
of worldwide recession, and partly for structural reasons. During the last
half of the 1970's, rapid growth resumed, based on high coffee and cocoa
prices and high rates of public investment. In 1979, per capita GNP reached
US$1,060, and approximately US$1,200 in 1980, one of the highest in Africa.
The good overall performance of the Ivorian economy over the last 17 years
has resulted from a combination of the following factors: large agricul-
tural potential and early identification by the Ivorian Government of the
best opportunities for developing this potential; liberal government poli-
cies vis-a-vis foreign private investment as well as importation of foreign
labor and managerial talent; and generally adequate public finance perfor-
mance and availability of external aid.
4.        Favorable ecological conditions in the southern region give the
Ivory Coast a comparative advantage in the cultivation of tree crops (par-
ticularly cocoa and coffee) and in the exploitation of timber resources.
From the early years of independence, the efforts of the Government were
concentrated on the agricultural and forestry sectors. Large investments
1/   Substantially identical with Part I of the President's Report No.
P-2884-IVC for a Highway Sector Project, dated October 15, 1980.



- 2-
were made in transport infrastructure to open up new forestry and agricul-
tural areas, and in agricultural research programs. Adequate guaranteed
producer prices and other incentives were introduced to which a dynamic small-
holder subsector has responded well. Government-owned large-scale plantations
with outgrower components were developed for oil and coconut palm. Rapid
growth has been achieved in the production of cotton, pineapple, palm and
coconut oil, cocoa and coffee. For the last two years, Ivory Coast has been
the world's largest producer of cocoa and the third largest producer of
coffee.
5.        A long period of political stability, combined with the free
transferability of profits and capital, has created an aura of confidence
abroad with assured access to foreign capital. However, the necessary tech-
nical skills to foster the planned development were lacking in the country,
and the Ivorian community welcomed the wide variety of foreign managerial and
technical assistance which rapid growth required. A member of the franc area
and a strong supporter of monetary and economic cooperation, the Ivory Coast
has always been willing to welcome new regional institutions; it joined the
Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and has helped promote the
CIMAO project, which is the first regional industrial undertaking involving
both French and English speaking countries in West Africa. An important
feature of this cooperation with neighboring countries, which has been benefi-
cial to all parties concerned, is the large influx of unskilled labor from
less well-endowed Sahelian countries, particularly Upper Volta and Mali. In
1976, the foreign population of the Ivory Coast (mainly non-Ivorian Africans)
was 1.5 million comprising about 20 percent of the country's total population.
6.        The factors mentioned above have enabled the external sector to grow
rapidly, and the value of exports and imports increased more than six times
from 1960 to 1975 and subsequently doubled from 1975 to 1979. The trade
balance during this period was positive and amounted to 14 percent of export
earnings. However, the deficit on nonfactor services, workers remittances
and direct investment income has never allowed a surplus on the current
account. Export earnings are still dependent to a high degree on coffee and
cocoa prices, both of which have been subject to substantial variation since
1975. Price increases for coffee of 250 percent from 1975 to 1977, and for
cocoa, of 100 percent, enabled export receipts to double from 1975 to 1977.
Prices for these products remained relatively stable in 1978 and 1979, but
declined by about 50 percent in 1980. Thus, export receipts have increased by
only 10 percent per year from 1977 to 1979 when they reached approximately
US$3.3 billion. With the increased import requirements of the expanded public
investment program, imports increased by 45 percent from 1975 to 1977 when
they reached US$2.8 billion, and by a further 35 percent in 1978 to approxi-
mately US$3.8 billion. The deficit on services and transfers has also
increased, amounting to US$850 million in 1977 and approximately US$1 billion
in 1978 and 1979. Net capital inflows increased from US$500 million in 1977
to US$850 million in 1978 and remained at approximately the same level in
1979. This reflected disbursements from foreign borrowing to finance the
public investment program. Foreign exchange reserves increased from US$174
million in 1977 to US$425 million at end 1978, then declined to US$107 million
at end 1979. This reserve drawdown reflected declining cocoa/coffee prices



- 3 -
and a government decision to withhold cocoa from the world market. These
cocoa stocks were subsequently sold in June 1980. The world market price
trends for coffee and cocoa continued through 1980. Since restraints on
imports related to public investment were insufficient to offset these trends,
reserves were also drawn down in 1980 by about US$500 million, leading to a
net negative foreign exchange position. Further restraints were introduced in
1981 in the context of an Extended Fund Facility approved by the IMF in
February 1981.
7.        The success of the Ivorian economy is to a substantial extent
attributable to generally sound government policies regarding public finance
and external aid. The public sector generated savings which, after debt
service, financed about 50 percent of the public investment program. The
level of public investment is projected in the five-year plans and imple-
mented through a series of rolling three-year investment programs and
annual investment budgets. The 1976-80 Plan called for public investment
of about US$5 billion, the equivalent of about 30 percent of projected GDP
(compared to 23 percent during 1971-75). The main objectives stated in
the Plan were to further increase production in developed regions, develop
agriculture in poor Savannah areas, accelerate the opening up of the south-
west, and substantially increase social services. Since 1977, however,
public investment has increased substantially beyond what was envisabc- in
the Plan as funds became available from coffee and cocoa export receipts
and as the country borrowed extensively abroad. New investments were pro-
grammed to expand education and other social services, to develop sugar pro-
duction into a major industry, and for a variety of projects in transporta-
tion, energy and other fields. State enterprises have played a substantial
role in this expansion, especially in that portion financed by external
credit. The increased reliance on external capital is reflected in total
external debt (disbursed and undisbursed) which stood at US$1.5 billion
at end 1975, US$2.2 billion at end 1976, US$3.6 billion at end 1977, US$4.2
billion at end 1978, and US$5.5 billion by the beginning of 1980. The impli-
cations of the sharp rise in external public debt are discussed below (paras.
13 through 16).
Recent Development Issues
8.        To maintain the momentum of recent years and help broaden the
access to the benefits derived from it, the Government will need to per-
severe in existing policies designed to diversify the economic base, im-
prove income distribution, increase the participation of Ivorian nationals
in the management of the economy, and maintain a public investment program
of appropriate dimensions. Current government policies are directed with
some success to protecting the export-oriented economy against fluctuations
in world market prices and to promoting more balanced regional development.
Agriculture remains the most important sector, but the share of manufactur-
ing in GDP has increased from 4 percent in 1960 to 13 percent in 1976.
Within agriculture, the production of new crops such as bananas, pineapples,
rubber, cotton, coconut and palm oil has been encouraged, resulting in a
decline of the share of cocoa and coffee in agricultural exports from 72
percent in 1960 to 51 percent in 1976.  In 1977 and 1978, years of very



-4-
high coffee and cocoa prices, these commodities share of exports rose to
over 60 percent. As part of a more balanced regional development policy,
large ii -rastructure investments are underway in the southw.est in an effort
to develop access to that potentially rich region.
9.        Better income-earnings opportunities are being provided for the
population in poor rural areas in the north following the identification
and cultivation of improved varieties of cotton, and the promotion of ox-
drawn methods of farming. Income distribution is being further improved
by increases in agricultural producer prices, implementation of wage poli-
cies which favor the urban poor, and execution of regional investment pro-
grams. As a result, income inequality has diminished in recent years, with
the poorest 40 percent of the population currently receiving about 20 per-
cent of total income.
10.       Progress in the Ivorianization of capital and labor remains limited.
While agriculture is almost entirely in Ivorian hands, foreign ownership is
still important in forestry, industry, and modern commerce. However, educa-
tion and training are given very high priority in the allocation of government
resources; increasing recognition is given to the employment potential of the
informal sector and the Government is sponsoring a variety of programs designed
to promote the development of small-scale industrial and commercial enterprises.
11.       These new policy directions are being implemented at some cost.
The development of new products, new sectors, and new regions yields decreasing
returns on investments. For example, agricultural diversification is being
extended to crops with lower comparative advantage; reforestation programs
have to be implemented in order to avoid a complete depletion of the reserves
by the end of the century; the best opportunities for import substitution in
industrial development are becoming exhausted; heavy infrastructure and produc-
tive investments in the potentially rich but sparsely populated southwest
yield initially low returns; large programs to improve living conditions in
the north and other poor rural areas involve long gestation periods. Finally,
the direct and indirect costs of foreign production factors are increasing.
12.       The financial burden of the expanded public investment program
has also increased despite the funding of a large proportion from the excep-
tionally large but temporary surpluses accumulated in 1976 and 1977 in the
stabilization fund (equivalent to about US$1.5 billion). Thus, the program
still relies on external credit for 50 percent of its funding, about 70 per-
cent of which comes from private banks and suppliers. This represents a
large increase from previous years. The overall terms and conditions of
external public debt are hardening, reflecting increased reliance on commer-
cial credit, and the grant element of public and private lending to the
public sector declined from 29 percent in 1969 to 10 percent in 1979. The
increased costs of development, the larger scale of investment now being
undertaken and envisaged for the future and the heavy reliance on foreign
commercial credit to fund a major portion of investment, point to the
necessity of measures to ensure that the limits of absorptive capacity are
not exceeded and that repayment capacity is not strained. The substantial
decrease in external borrowing during 1978 and the subsequent limits attached



- 5 -
to such borrowings are encouraging signs that the Government of Ivory Coast is
aware of the situation. Other recent measures include a much stronger control
by the Caisse Autonome dAAmortissement (CAA) over the state enterprises-
borrowing and investment programs.
Prospects
13.       Provided the Government becomes more selective in determining invest-
ment priorities and limits external borrowing to prudent levels, the medium-
and long-term prospects of the Ivorian economy remain favorable, and an annual
rate of growth of about 6 percent is a feasible objective for the eighties.
However, the economy, in adjusting to lower coffee/cocoa prices, is likely to
grow at a lower rate during 1981 and 1982.
14.       The economy has considerable potential for further development of
traditional export crops. Moreover, after large initial investments have been
made, output of new products and development of new regions will start to
yield substantial benefits and can later be expanded at reasonable economic
cost. The Government is planning to review the system of protection and tax
holidays which has encouraged some marginal import-substitution industries,
and there is scope for expansion of export-oriented processing of local raw
materials. Many aspects of the country's policies of income distribution
(preference for the family-size farm, programs to increase agriculture produc-
ivity in the poorer north, and promotion of the informal sector, small-scale
industrial and commercial enterprises) are fully compatible with sustained
economic growth. A possible additional source of income and exports is
petroleum. Discoveries of some reserves were announced in 1978, and of larger
amounts in 1980. It is, however, too early to quantify the potential impact
of petroleum development, but more precise information should be available
during 1981.
15.       Since prices for coffee and cocoa are decreasing, export earnings
will probably be considerably less buoyant in the near future than in past
years despite some mitigating effects of diversification into export products
such as rubber, pineapples and industrial products, and a still as yet unquan-
tifiable contribution from petroleum. Imports, however, have increased sub-
stantially and the large deficit on services will remain as long as the
country relies heavily on foreign factors of production. Thus, pressures
on the balance of payments will remain. The size and financing of the public
investment program will be a key element in determining the extent of these
pressures. The decreases in cocoa/coffee prices combined with high debt
service are also expected to put pressure on public savings. Their contribu-
tion to the financing of the public investments has substantially declined
from a high 60 percent in 1978 to about 10 percent in 1981.
16.       The authorities are therefore engaged in a review of new public
investments in relation to available public savings, official development
assistance, and longer-term commercial borrowing. The aim is to carry out
as much as possible of high priority targets, while achieving an external
debt structure consistent with the medium-term balance of payments pros-
pects of the economy. By these means it should be possible to keep the
debt service at about 25 percent and to maintain creditworthiness for
borrowing on IBRD terms.



- 6 -
17.       Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1979, 15
percent was provided bilaterally by governments, 14 percent by international
aid agencies (of which 65 percent by the Bank Group), and 56 percent by
private banks and bond issues, while 15 percent came in the form of suppliers
credit. About half of the total capital not supplied by international aid
agencies came about four countries: France (21 percent), USA (13 percent),
Lebanon (6 percent), and the Federal Republic of Germany (4 percent). France
and the European Communities remain the principal source of development
assistance in grant form, accounting for about 1 percent of the flow of
foreign assistance to the public sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
18.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast started,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes forty loans totalling US$659.8
million (including US$14 million from the Third Window), and an IDA credit
of US$7.5 million. Fourteen of these forty operations have been for agricul-
ture, supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut development;
another US$9.4 million loan for a North-East Savannah Rural Development
project has been approved by the Executive Directors in March 1980. There
were six road projects and a highway sector project. The remaining eighteen
loans were for education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drain-
age system, water supply, urban development, power distribution, tourism
development, small- and medium-scale enterprises, a regional cement project
and a regional railway project. IFC's involvement includes participation in
the Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel amounting to US$423,500; a
10 percent equity investment, equivalent to about US$880,000, in Etablissement
R. Gonfreville (ERG), the largest textile plant in the country; and a US$6.4
million investment in Societe Ivoirienne d'Engrais S.A. (Siveng) to double
the company-s fertilizer plant capacity to 120,000 tons per year; on March
1980, IFC Board of Directors approved an equity investment of US$446,600 anld
a US$2.9 million loan for MSO, a flour milling company. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank Group operations and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects, with particular reference to those which are encountering
problems in execution and giving rise to delays in disbursements.
19.       Bank operations in agriculture have been in support of the Govern-
ment's policy of crop diversification and promotion of exports, and have
followed the evolution of this policy towards giving more emphasis to develop-
ing smallholder production. A smallholder rubber project was approved by
the Board in October 1978, and a rural development project for the North-East
in March 1980. The Bank is presently helping in the preparation of two
projects aimed at strengthening the agencies in charge of rural development in
the Center and the Southern regions, and is associated with the preparation of
a mechanization study and pilot scheme, carried out by the French CCCE, to
determine the feasibility of introducing mechanized farming. In June 1979,
the Executive Directors approved the first Bank forestry project in the Ivory
Coast which consists of a 20,000 ha plantation program of short- and medium-
rotation hardwood species.



20.       Another important sector in which the Bank has participated actively
is transportation. The Bank was closely associated, as executing agency, with
the 1969 UNDP Transport Survey of the Ivory Coast, which has served as a basis
for determining future priorities among transport investments. Thus far the
Bank has granted loans for six road projects totalling $123.3 million, and for
a highway sector project in the amount of $100 million, which was approved in
November 1980. The first project was completed in December 1974 with final
costs falling within appraisal estimates. The OED report on this project dated
June 28, 1977, recommended inter alia, that more emphasis should be given to
road maintenance. This had been picked up in the Third Highway Project. The
Second Road Project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975, after an
initial delay caused by project modification and subsequent poor work organiza-
tion for the construction component. The Third and Fourth Highway Projects,
which are virtually completed, incurred substantial cost overruns which the
Government is covering; otherwise, execution proceeded satisfactorily. The
Fifth Highway Project, which is near completion will contribute to a further
improvement of the primary road network of the country. A feeder roads and
highway maintenance project was approved in December 1977. The highway sector
loan to finance a portion of the country's highway investment program for
1981-83 is now operative. A railway project, focusing on the improvement of
the Bouake-Petionara section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou rail line, renewal of
rolling stock, technical assistance and training, was approved in FY7,2. A
Second Railway Project to complete the rehabilitation from Petionara to Tafire
has been prepared under the First Project, and is being appraised.
21.       The Bank has been closely associated with the Government s efforts
to modernize the education system, in particular, at the primary, secondary
and vocational levels, through two education projects. A Third Education
Project covering primary teacher training, vocational training and informal
education in rural areas was approved by the Executive Directors in December
1979.
22.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project, approved in FY75, covers
the first phase of a ten-year government program to improve sanitation in
Abidjan.  The Board approved, in FY78, a second project which includes the
second phase of the program and studies for the third. An urban development
project, whose primary aim is to help meet some of Abidjan-s low-income
housing and transport needs, was signed in December 1976 and is discussed
more fully under PART III below. With respect to the smaller towns, the
Board approved in FY78 a secondary centers water supply project and another
project for water supply in secondary centers and villages is being appraised.
23.       In the energy sector, a First Power Project was approved in July
.1980 to finance power distribution facilities in rural areas, technical
assistance and the preparation of a hydropower project which the Bank is
considering financing. Recently, the Government has requested Bank finan-
cial assistance for further exploration and production of the new off-shore
petroleum field, l-Espoir, and the project is currently being appraised.



- 8 -
24.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing
high priLrity on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this
policy, the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises
in FY76, which has been followed up by an artisans, small- and medium-scale
project approved in March 1979. The Bank Group also provided support for
medium-scale enterprises through another local development finance company
and two lines of credit for hotel financing and technical assistance in the
tourism sector. In June 1976, the Bank extended a loan to the Ivory Coast
in support of the CIMAO project which is sponsored jointly by the Govern-
ments of Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Togo. CIMAO will utilize limestone depo-
sits in Togo for the production of clinker for the cement market of the
three countries.
25.        Recently the Government requested Bank financial support for
the implementation of a structural adjustment program which is now being
formulated.  The Bank has responded positively to Government's request and is
currently engaged in discussions on the program and on the possibility of Bank
support.
26.       The Bank Group-s lending in the Ivory Coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early years to an
average of US$74.2 million annually in the 1975-79 period. The average annual
lending rate is expected to continue to grow substantially over the next few
years. The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt at the end
of 1979, stood at approximately 10.4 percent (including undisbursed). Its
portion of external debt disbursed is expected to rise from the present 6.4
percent to about 10 percent in the next ten years; its share of total debt
service, 4.2 percent in 1979, is expected to go up to about 6.0 percent in
the early 1980's.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
The Urban Setting
27.       The Ivory Coast's robust record of economic growth is a prime
factor in the rapid expansion of its urban sector. The country's development
strategy, exploiting the rich potential of its agricultural sector to support
the development of a modern industrial base, has fueled a national urban
growth rate of 8.4% p.a. during the 1970's. This rate is more than double
that of the population as a whole and over three times as fast as the rural
population. As a result of these trends, the Ivory Coast's urban population
ranks as West Africa's third largest with 3.1 million living in urban areas.
The country is one of the Region's most urbanized, with 38 percent of its
population residing in urban areas.
28.       The growth and evolution of the Ivory Coast's urban network has
followed the pattern of economic prosperity. Abidjan, the former colonial
capital and subsequently the seat of national government and the center of
all non-agricultural economic activity, clearly dominates urban development,



- 9 -
accounting for about 54 percent of the total urban population. For the past
twenty years, its population has doubled about every six years. Between 1965
and 1975, Abidjan sustained an average annual growth rate of about 10,
reaching 1.7 million in 1980. The secondary towns, which have developed as
transportation depots and marketing centers for agricultural production, are
also experiencing rapid growth and expansion, and, although there is wide
variation in this growth, recent estimates indicate that it is about double
the national rate.   San Pedro, the second largest port, is growing at 11
percent, Bouake the second largest city at 8 percent, Korhogo at 10 percent
and Daloa at about 6 percent per annum.
29.       Migration features heavily in the urbanization pattern of the Ivory
Coast, accounting for over half of the overall urban growth rate. The pros-
pects for employment in the country as a whole, and in particular, in the
capital city, have attracted large numbers of migrants from both within the
country and from the neighboring countries. Abidjan's growth has been espe-
cially influenced by migration, which accounts for 64 percent of its annual
growth. Government policies governing resources allocation by region have
overwhelmingly favored Abidjan, further encouraging growth and migration and
widening the gap between the resource-rich South and the impoverished northern
region of the country. Without a major turn-around in Government national
investment policies, over 90 percent of the total population would be concen-
trated in the southern half of the country by the year 2000. The urban share
would be at least 60 percent of the total population, and a large proportion
of the urban population, or 7 million inhabitants, would be concentrated in
Abidjan.
Abidjan
30.       Abidjan's pace of expansion has seen the city grow from 36.2 km2
in 1965 to a sprawling 80 km2 in 1980. Lower income migrants account for
the overwhelming share of this growth, settling in two important growth areas:
1) Abobo, a poorly planned and largely unserviced low-income area in the north
with about 300,000 residents and 2) the Banco Plateau, a planned extension
in the west with a current population of about 350,000 and a projected popula-
tion of about one million persons. The rate of urbanization has largely
outgrown the city's network of infrastructure and has overwhelmed the city's
capacity to maintain and extend services, particularly to the new growth
zones where there is no street maintenance, garbage collection nor an adequate
supply of potable water. Storm water drainage is in a deteriorated state. A
legacy of high standards has also constrained access by the urban poor, since
services are provided at costs far beyond their means or not at all.
31.       The city's serrated coastal topography has been a major constraint
to the delivery of public services, especially public transport, whose major
clients are among the city's poor. The transport routes cross into the
Central Business District (Plateau), and key movements (such as those linking
residence and employment) are only possible through the Plateau and the two
bridges crossing the Ebrie Laguna, producing heavy downtown traffic conges-
tion. Increases in population and in motorization rates of recent years
have extended congestion to all parts of the city, and is beginning to
impact negatively on the city's economy. Walking has become an important



- 10 -
mode of transport, accounting for about half of the residents trips; but
trips made by the state-owned bus company, SOTRA, are also important, account-
ing for about 47 percent of total motorized trips. Apart from 10 km. of
reserved bus lanes created under the Bank-financed first urban project (para.
34), mass transit vehicles have no priority. Insufficient road markings and
traffic lights compound the problems in circulation of all motorized traffic.
The Secondary Towns
32.       Government's intention to deconcentrate resources away from the
capital has not yet been realized. The secondary cities themselves are weak
instruments for absorbing substantial infusions of monies, lacking the human
and institutional framework to plan and guide their economic development.
Since development programs in the urban sector fall exclusively under the
Central Government, there are few incentives which the secondary cities
can offer to attract and hold qualified staff, and there are no financial
mechanisms to maintain and extend city services. As these cities begin to
experience more rapid growth, their planning and implementation capabilities
must be developed to head off serious problems associated with unplanned urban
development. To that end, the Government had, by end 1980, created munici-
palities in most of its major cities which will become progressively opera-
tional over the coming years, as they gain experience in local government
and equip themselves to attract human and financial resources.
Managing Urban Growth
33.       In the 1980's, the Government intends to vigorously pursue a more
balanced regional development strategy, but also to continue investment in
the capital which will remain the hub of the country s economic growth, and
indeed an important center in the West Africa region. Total investment in the
urban sector is expected to range between $250 and $300 million annually, of
which 25 percent would go to urban transport, 55 percent to shelter, water and
sewerage, and the remainder to other urban services.  The choice of investments
in Abidjan would be based on the recommendations of the Ten-Year Development
Study for the Abidjan Region financed under the 1976 First Urban Development
Project, to wit:  1) better overall planning and coordination of investments;
2) project phasing; and 3) planned fiscal management of the city. Services
would be provided to the older underserviced areas and the newer expansion
zones.  Shelter needs of households earning less than the median income in
Abidjan would be addressed through upgrading of selected lower income areas
and development of some rental units. In urban transport, Government intends
to improve bus services to make more efficient use of existing infrastructure
and transport systems. It is proposed to limit the demand for private trans-
portation through this avenue, and also to enforce parking regulations in the
Plateau. Building on experience in the First Project (para. 34), there will
be additional traffic management programs to improve junctions, traffic lights,
road signals and busways. In the secondary towns, development will focus on
strengthening the economic base through provision of infrastructure and
amenities to attract industries, skilled and semi-skilled labor. Where
feasible, improvements would be linked to modernization of agriculture,
including development of agroindustries and/or marketing facilities for
agricultural products.



- 11 -
The First Urban Project
34.       The First Urban Project (Loans 1347/1348T, US$44.0 million, 1976)
was designed to support Government's development policy objectives to: 1)
improve access to urban services and shelter for low-income groups in Abidjan;
2) strengthen institutions charged with project implementation; and 3) provide
technical assistance to improve evaluation of investment plans and priorities.
The urban transport component, the project's main element, is near completion
and has contributed positively to a shift away from over-investment in roads
to traffic management programs designed to alleviate congestion. Under the
project, the first reserved bus lanes in sub-Saharan Africa were installed in
1979, and a Traffic Bureau was created to develop new policies for restraint
in the use of the private automobile and improved bus transportation. Although
physical progress on the shelter component has been slow, its impact on
policies has been considerable. The agreed objectives of the project and the
ensuing dialogue which it involved seem to have heightened the Government's
sensitivity to the need to improve access to services for the poorest segments
of population without substantial increases in subsidies. Specifically,
criteria for plot allocation were modified in 1976 to allow foreign immigrants
and poor Ivorians to acquire security of tenure through long leaseholds, and
legislation allowing for cost recovery in upgrading and low-income housing
areas was passed in 1977 and ratified in 1979. Following these important
measures, the implementing decrees were signed in October 1980 and works for
the shelter component of the First Project are now underway, and are expected
to be completed by end-1982.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project aims at improving the living conditions of
populations in low-income urban areas by continuing and building up on the
efforts undertaken in the first urban project to develop a sound transport
system in Abidjan and increase its efficiency through better traffic manage-
ment, and by assisting the Government in carrying out its incipient regional
development policy oriented towards shifting rapid urban growth from the
capital cities to regional centers. The proposed project was identified in
1979 and prepared by Government with the assistance of consultants. Apprai-
sal took place in May-June 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
on April 10-15, 1981; the Government delegation was headed by Mr. Coulibaly,
Director of External Debt in the Caisse Autonome d-Amortissement. The project
is described in detail in Staff Appraisal Report No. 3236-IVC, dated July 7,
1981, which is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Supplementary data on the project are to be found in Annex III.
Project Concept and Description
36.       The urban transport component of the proposed project would provide
increased access to improved transport for populations in low-income areas
of Abidjan by expanding the network of high-speed express bus lanes, providing
other infrastructure in relatively neglected areas, improving traffic manage-
ment, setting annual road maintenance programs, providing technical assis-
tance to Government, the Traffic Management Unit and SOTRA, the State-run



- 12 -
public transport company, and training of traffic engineers. The design of
this component is based on lessons learned from the First Project and would
consist of:
(a) Expanding the high-speed express bus network through the construc-
tion of a new 2.6 km road link (Parc-a-Bois Road) and the recon-
struction and improvement of the Western Bypass incorporating bus
priority facilities (2.9 km);
(b) Upgrading of bus terminals and bus stops, and construction of a
bus depot in Abidjan;
(c) Construction of primary roads in the Banco low-income development
area (8.9 km) complementing the existing network and linking with
the boat lines operated by SOTRA;
(d) Traffic management measures to improve circulation for pedestrians
and buses in four high-density low-income communities--Treichville,
Marcory, Koumassi and Adjame;
(e) Facilities for pedestrians including the construction of foot-
bridges and the surfacing of footpaths;
(f) Continuation of traffic management programs within the Plateau and
the extension of these programs throughout the city, involving
traffic control measures, junction improvements, and traffic signals
at congestion points, and introduction of road maintenance programs
throughout the city; and
(g) Technical assistance in traffic management, road safety and public
transport management (328 man/months) and in undertaking additional
studies, including detailed engineering for the proposed urban rail
service (URS), which would provide an above ground mass rail transit
system (17.3 km) along the major north-south corridor of the city,
and for which a satisfactory feasibility study has been prepared.
36.       To help the Government achieve its goal of shifting urban growth
from the capital city to regional centers by providing necessary infrastruc-
ture and an adequate level of activities which would increase attraction
for industries and skilled and semi-skilled labor, the secondary cities
component of the proposed project includes some infrastructure investments
and technical assistance in two cities, Daloa and Korhogo, to test on an
experimental basis, the new institutional arrangements recently created by
Government (see para. 32) and to determine, on the basis of experience to be
gained from adequate monitoring of this project, appropriate management
systems to be set up at a national level. This component of the project would
consist of:
(a) Pilot improvement programs in Daloa and Korhogo including street
improvements, the construction of access roads to various neighbor-
hoods, the paving of market areas, the construction of small open
markets and community facilities, and repairs to some primary schools;



-13 -
(b) Equipment and materials to improve the delivery of municipal ser-
vices in both cities;
(c) Technical assistance to the municipalities of Daloa and Korhogo
(60 man/months) to improve municipal management and to supervise
the pilot programs;
(d) Technical assistance to Central Government to carry out a pre-
investment programming study for secondary cities (70 man/months)
and to monitor the proposed project (35 man/months).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
38.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$104.0 million,
including US$51.0 million in foreign exchange. Taxes and customs duties are
included, and amount to US$31.2 million. The average cost per staff month of
technical assistance is estimated at US$11,670 (including salary and social
benefits, $3,700, taxes, $3,500, housing and other allowances, $2,520, travel
and overhead costs, $1,950). Physical contingencies of 10 percent were
allowed for works and equipment. A total price contingency of 27.5 percent
was included for expected increases on all local and foreign cost items during
the project implementation period: domestic inflation was estimated at 12
percent annually, and foreign inflation was expected to develop at 9 percent
in 1981, 8.5 percent in 1982, and 7.5 percent thereafter.
39.       The proposed US$51.0 million Bank loan would finance the foreign
exchange requirements or about 70 percent of total project costs, net of
taxes. The remainder of the financing would be assured by a Government
contribution of US$53.0 million from the special equipment and investment
budget. A subsidiary loan agreement would be concluded between the Government
and SOTRA, the public transport company, covering the construction of a bus
depot and other works for improved bus operations estimated at US$4.4 million.
Relending terms would be the same as for the Bank loan, the exchange risks
being borne by SOTRA. Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan (Sections 3.02 and 6.01
of Draft Loan Agreement).
Implementation
40.       Execution and coordination of the proposed project would not re-
quire the creation of new institutions but would aim at developing the
existing  ones, including the municipalities which were established last
October in 28 cities. Overall responsibility for implementation of the urban
transport component of the project would rest with the Ministry of Public
Works and Transportation, which will ensure that project execution be coordi-
nated and supervised through its various agencies. The Central Directorate of
Public Works (DCTP) will supervise: (i) the carrying out of civil works of
the Abidjan public transport component; (ii) the implementation of the annual
traffic management and road maintenance programs. Improvements in bus opera-
tions and the construction of a bus depot will be implemented by SOTRA.



- 14 -
41.       Overall responsibility for implementation of the secondary cities
component of the project will rest with the Ministry of Construction and
Urbanism. Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Public Works will be res-
ponsible for execution of civil works included in the pilot pro6rams in Daloa
and Korhogo under the supervision of the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism.
The Central Directorate of Urbanism (DCU) will manage the preparation of the
preinvestment programming study. Development of municipal services will rely
on the municipalities of Daloa and Korhogo. Routine project coordination will
be carried out by the Cabinets of the Ministries of Public Works and Transport
and Construction and Urbanism which will operate as an ad hoc coordinating
group reporting progress to the Government and to the Bank. The project will
be carried out over the period July 1981 to June 1985 (Sections 3.01 and
Schedule 2 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
Financial Management and Audits
42.       The overall financial management and accounting of the Bank loan
will be the responsibility of CAA (Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement), the
Government's debt management agency. All contracts financed under the project
will be prepared by the Central Directorate of Contracts (DCM) within the
Ministry of Finance, after bids have been evaluated by the respective agencies,
and for contracts amounting to more than $5 million, after formal approval of
the evaluations by the National Committee for Bids.
43.       Financial statements including cash-flows of project sub-accounts
and year-end balances from all project components will be audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank; financial statements will be
submitted to the Bank three months after the end of the fiscal year and audit
reports would be made available to the Bank no later than eight months after
the close of each financial year (Section 4.02 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
44.       Civil works and equipment contracts for an aggregate value of US$57.6
million will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank Group-s guidelines for procurement. Contracts for
operational improvements in bus operations, pedestrian facilities, and road
improvement maintenance for an aggregate value of US$17.8 million will be
grouped to permit efficient bulk procurement and also awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding. Domestic manufacturers will be given a
preference of 15 percent, or the level of applicable customs duties, whichever
is lower.
45.       Contracts for the pilot programs in Daloa and Korhogo will be
divided into small components to encourage bids from small Ivorian firms.
These contracts for works ranging from street paving to public lighting are
within the capacity of the local medium-size contractors and represent an
aggregate value of US$3.6 million for Korhogo (10 contracts) and US$6.8
million for Daloa (8 contracts). Contracts will be awarded after competitive
bidding under local procedures which were reviewed and found satisfactory to
the Bank. Small items costing less than $50,000 each and which would total no



- 15 -
more than $2 million, will be purchased after solicitation of quotations from
at least three suppliers. Works for relocation of water pipes, electric and
telephone lines and lighting, which are not Bank-financed, will be carried out
by the respective utility companies, following arrangements which proved
successful under the First Urban Project (Schedule 4 of Draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
46.       Disbursements would be made in the following manner:
(a) 45 percent of total expenditures for civil works and equipment
for the transport component;
(b) 50 percent of total expenditures for civil works and equipment
for the pilot programs;
(c) 60 percent of total expenditures for consultant services and
studies.
Disbursements under the loan are expected to start in 1982 and be completed
in 1985. Retroactive financing is recommended for technical assistance
and studies up to US$1.0 million of expenditures to: (i) prepare th- first
years program of traffic management measures within the Traffic Manage-
ment Unit of BCET; and (ii) set up the Traffic Planning Unit within SOTRA
(Schedule 1 of Draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
47.       The investment budget for the transport component will be balanced
by road user charges calculated as taxes on fixed operating cost items, such
as gasoline and diesel oil. Pilot programs in the secondary cities, technical
assistance and equipment for development of municipal services will be passed
on as a grant. Attempts will be made to recover the costs of these pilot
programs through existing legal means, mainly property taxes, but actual
recovery remains in doubt. Property tax records are traditionally weak, and
there is a high risk that cost recovery in both cities will be poor and
difficult to implement, even though both cities have an established land title
register on which taxation could be based. Mechanisms to improve tax collec-
tion will be tested during implementation of pilot operations (see para. 53).
Improvement of SOTRA's Financial Performance
48.       An improved performance of SOTRA is important to the success of the
project. Government and SOTRA are fully aware that the companyIs financial
position has been declining steadily over the last five years due in large
measure to inflationary cost increases not being covered by corresponding
increases in tariffs and too rapid fleet expansion, which caused a drop in
productivity. Following discussions with the Bank as part of supervision of
the First Project and preparation of the present project, a number of measures
have been adopted to redress this situation. These measures include a mora-
torium on investments, an increase in fare tariffs from CFAF 60 to 75, effec-
tive April 1, 1981, an explicit recognition of subsidies to be paid to SOTRA



- 16 -
by adding a specific entry in the Central Government budget to that effect,
and the implementation of a series of measures to rationalize the company's
routes w ich will induce savings of about CFAF 1.4 billion in 1980/81.
49.       The measures outlined above should allow SOTRA to come close to
securing a working ratio of 1.00 in the current fiscal year, and Government
would undertake to have SOTRA achieve this ratio in the fiscal year com-
mencing October 1, 1981, and in subsequent years (Section 3.11 of the draft
Loan Agreement). However, this is not considered the ultimate financial
objective of SOTRA; Government and SOTRA, who share this view, have agreed to
undertake a study under the proposed project to help define a medium-term
operational and financial strategy for the company, and to implement a plan
of action based on the recommendations of that study in consultation and
agreement with the Bank (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Urban Poverty Impact
50.       The relative urban poverty threshold in Abidjan was defined at $410
per capita in 1979 and the absolute poverty estimated at $230 per capita.
Calculations made during the Ten Year Development Study showed that 23 percent
of the urban population of greater Abidjan was below the relative poverty
threshold. A survey made on the users of public transport showed that 80
percent of them earn less than the arithmetic mean per capita income in
Abidjan and 60 percent less than the median income. About 62 percent of
project investments in Abidjan would generate benefits directly to those who
earn less than the median income. The urban poor, who represent 22 percent of
the public transport clientele, would receive 17 percent of the benefits. The
share of the urban poor and the median-income group in the benefits of the
proposed traffic management package would be even higher, since it is espe-
cially focused on the poor population of in-city neighborhoods. Precise
project impact on the urban poor in the secondary cities is difficult to
assess, since no accurate data are available. This component is, however,
aimed at primarily benefiting the poorer neighborhoods by improving either the
living conditions or the access to public facilities or employment locations.
Benefits and Risks
51.       By the end of the project implementation period, investments in
the transport program financed under the project would have benefited some
1,650,000 persons, or about 77 percent of the total population of greater
Abidjan. Of these, about 550,000 or 33 percent would be touched more directly
by the traffic improvement programs. By including only quantifiable savings
in vehicle-operating costs, maintenance costs and travel times, an overall
economic rate of return in excess of 32 percent was obtained. Bus priority
schemes and traffic management would result in energy savings amounting
to about 20 percent of total benefits.
52.       Pilot programs in the secondary cities would be expected to con-
tribute to improved living conditions for some 150,000 persons. In addition,
development of municipal technical services would allow for the demonstration
of a responsible approach for dealing with urban development problems in the
secondary cities, which may be replicated.



- 17 -
53.       The urban transport component does not present special risks.
With regard to the secondary cities component, although the Government
has expressed its commitment to these initiatives, two main areas of risks
can be identified: the institutional arrangements for implementation of the
pilot programs, and the replicability of these programs. The institutional
arrangement for the execution of the pilot programs is very new and its
efficiency has to be proven. The transfer of staff from the Central Govern-
ment services to municipalities and regional services is gradually taking
place, but there is a risk of considerable delays in implementation if
proper coordination is not ensured between Abidjan and the Daloa/Korhogo
authorities. The funds allocated in the project to assist in the monitoring
of implementation of this component will help to identify such shortfalls, if
they occur, and to devise appropriate corrective measures to be taken. The
replicability of the pilot programs depends upon the effective introduction of
the cost recovery mechanisms. Although beneficiaries are prepared to pay for
security of tenure and provision of essential services, failure to collect
taxes will result in lower standards of service and a need for subsidies from
Central Government. To minimize this risk, Bank supervision missions would
focus on this aspect, and would encourage Government to devote continued
attention to the development of an efficient property tax system.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Govern-
ment and SOTRA would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan
(para. 39).
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 6, 1981



-18-
ANNEX I
Page1
IV_RY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DASA SHEET
IVORY COAST                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A VERGES
LAND AREA   OVSAND sO. rK.)                                                               - HOST RECENT ESTIMSATE)
TOTAL             322.5
AGRICULTURAL      171.6                                  HDST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /  ESTIMATE /    AnRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$1                   230.0        450.0      840.0                  726.2                   1384.1
ENERGY CONSL1HPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COL EOUIVALENT)         76.0        228.0     357.0                  699.4                    1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        3.5          5.0        7.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT or TOTAL) 19.3           27.6       35.6                  28.9                      63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          14.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           37.0
YEAR STATIONRY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PE  SQ. KM.                         11.0         16.0      24.0                   61.7                      28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       21.0         30.0      45.0                  126.0                      81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PErRCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.2         42.5      44.1                   45.5                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                           54.0         54.8      53.9                   51.6                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.8          2.7        2.0                   2.8                       3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.1          3.7,Lc     5.6/c                 2.7                       2.7
URBAN                                 ..          7.3        9.2                   4.9                       4.1
CRUDE BIRrH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       50.0         49.0       50.0                  46.8                      34.fl
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       27.0         22.0       19.0                  16.4                       8.9
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3. 2jd       3.1        3.3                   3.2                       2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..           ..
USeRS (PERCeNT OP KARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX Of FOOD PrODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            99.0         98.0     105.0                   94.0                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     90.0        122.0     105.0                   92.7                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            42.0         59.0      51.0                   53.0                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         11.0         15.0      15.0                   15.6                     33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       41.0         32.0       27.0                  21.3                       8.4
HEALlTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0           42.0      46.0                   50.1                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..           ..        ..                     ..                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       19.0                  31.0                     65.9
URBAN                                 ..           ..      50.0                   66.8                     80.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..       5.0                     ,,                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF PO PULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          5.0       25.0                    ..                     62.3
URBAN                                 ,.         23.0      33.0                     ..                      79.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..      22.0                     ..                     z9.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN           23217.O0e   14085.0   15220.0                 14508.2                   1849.2
FOPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2920.0       2880.0Lf  2368.OLf               3279.5                   1227.5
POPULATION PER ROSPITAL RED
TOTAL                              679.0        784.0        ..                 1141.5                    480.3
URBAN                                 ..        382.0
RURAL                                 ..       1348.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         .                      ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..        6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOH
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                2.51          ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                1.0a          ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..



-19-                                        ANNEX I
Page 2
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL U1DICATOU DATA SUEIT
t QY COAST                     REP zEE GROUPS (VIIGRTD AVI R6S
- MOST RCT UTISAT)
11ST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOHE           MIDDLE llOID
1960  /b    1970 / ESTIMTE /b   AnICA SOUTr OF 8AII  LATIN AMEICA 4 CARIMEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENIOLLIMET IRATIS
PRDIARY:    TOTAL                 46.0        76.0      92.0                 61.7                    99.7
HAI                  68.0        97.0     115.0                 69.2                   101.0
yltDZ                24.0        55.0      69.0                 51.4                    99.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0        11.0      17.0                 20.6                    34.4
MALE                  4.0        17.0      26.0                 29.2                    33.5
73(6Z                 1.0         5.0       8.0                 14.7                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENOL. (Z OF SECODARY) 13.0            7.0      13.0                  7.0                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           41.0        45.0      44.0                 36.6                    30.5
SECONDARY                           ..        21.0        ..                 24.3                    14.5
AILT LITERACY RATE (PUSCINT)         5.0A       20.0        ..                   ..                    76.3
CONSuMnTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAD
POPULATIN                          3.0        10.0      12.0                 38.8                    63.0
RADIO RECEIVERS Pn SdOUSAID
POPULATION                        16.0        17.0    120.0                  83.5                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.4         5.3      51.3                   ..                    84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PMr
THOUSAND POPUIATION                  2.0        10.0       7.2                 24.2                    63.3
CiNEMA ANNUAL ATTrEDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..       1.5                  0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL I.ABM FOCZ (TBOUSANDS)      1857.9      2657.7   3899.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   4.0        43.8      42.0                 38.1                    22.2
AGRICULTURE  PERCHNT)             S8.8        84.5      81.0                 54.3                    37.1
NDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  2.1         2.6       3.0                 17.8                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               55.6        53.4      51.6                 38.5                    31.5
ALAE                                61.4        59.4      57.7                 48.4                    68.9
FDALE                               49.6        47.3      45.5                 29.4                    14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8         0.9       0.9                  1.3                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
P1ERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOI1E
RECEIVED SY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP BOUSEBOLDS   30. 9L       *.
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSZEOLDS  51.8L         ..      50.0/L.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS    6. 6*                   °   .. 9.. Oa
IDWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   16.5Li        ..      20.OL.                        
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US $ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    274.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      96.0                   ..                   190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US $ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    487.0                    ..                   474.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    244.0                    ..                   332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RUYRAL                              ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmtic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970 between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
1c  Due to imigration population growth rate is higher than rate of natural increase;  /d 1957-58. African
population only; /e 1963; /f Government personnel only; ]A 1956-57; 1b 1962; /i Population.
April, 1980



-20-                                                         ANNEX I
Page 3
Nnw     lth0   th  a.. neft-El-   a .. o  mv&I7 j   uSv   Om was   lohwtstal. andornliO         t" uas   .rtdttte    y-                          on
barl-e.ll  -oep.vbe ... b.bc. of 0k. l.ok of noid.dlo.d deL 08111.. redeejepte eeed by 411  t. a berm.1e  00  ol..IItfte   the dots.  Th. dot. .ro. we
Ibel..eIe. tef.1 to 40.0-th. -rdn.  of MSCICdo, tcoalesceCrow. md  ch-mteetele  .wte±8 mie. dIflerom.  hbAve. OmI earm.
Ther. :r.ocaj... top. no (1) the Cae  .o.ctry p.0orP CMth  eoJet .emmtry mi (2) a reacry so n Site . 1gh   hleker   &Iw   08cm- thee lhe "Mt"y  reW
.1 the ecJ..o  0.0107 Ceecpt LEt 'Cesital eonpla  On2 s.rtave' Pe"wohere  heidi. Ze.isnbO A961.. NW 80401  leetl in Capon. heere....   oft.andp
eoeo-oltro  .Lloole).1. the refer.... trop date Lthe evevw oae popolood.. hmkbted ~srub l  mm  Saw seek idodieeot NW                          0.17 way m  at
Iceat hel  o -the rocttlee is C poop b   date Lot that ULedlato.  ftee  the oinvp ad.1              et so     mee the Odoleot.t  deo.do 0o the evelbielity ad
dot. eed le Set ral100,  -Otle meat be beserleed to reoltlea evereee   red, oadtrelem  somob,.  TOhm  emeebe ole, o.. ly obs.1oL. to -oepe tllb. o.l.o
of wo Lodleto  ot C Ito  ..m"  the tosotry *ed rofeae.towSm..
(thereco  at ke.)              led  re        ttm  gtoe,- te9hOtt., Albume by poeet 00 plOOttott Pry-
-  ,._ evf04  eve -      a". S  Lordleto , ed                                                  I d-*'.Iss, e sedlool baro.l et t.lvevlty lere.
Ao :llltj   In I`-'oc  of Sarolvrl-   re ...    - d teovottrly or p.oeetly         !mdA.a fEh, A-p.9oo180t   dtotee  by  SMO   Sr plOOtlOle
Lov~opc  polove. .khe  ted k1tch.. 001dm.s 00 tO 1to Lella    1977 dat..           wUm    N .sama~$  PCOOtICS1 moe... ari  mlOstt mero..
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ ___ ___ _   z E* -    P ep1o tote   (total,
SIZ        I     U_")- in  P., .ally. oeleteet Ct Otott serket pr1cms. tel-                 E.it "e . Uv.w u!! "J 4byt"I. Lipli                       f beot:.  hh
to atd It  Me  dorcV-SIo   -tbhd Oe iOld leektAtla. (1976-78 bOts); 1545.                  mO.tel  he p.bbl  Mi Sad,et  gees saw.,lio    -.I.,a ee m,
l910, cod Lo7e dote.                                                                      1gtuatittm  cml...  fttt.e  are  mteoihotwt  pveemely et"odf
by at bbet we pweiedm.  hmohldeote previddeg PoT,=,*.UTm
l    "'ttCAKA -  ocltewte    f oMartial Son's  (aiee)                    mrsw  on tmaslw .  Imel hewleolo. hmme. leelade heOlIb mi   ito
ligotepetroetee.    etoe  tee eedS bydo-, bal".r -i gtbhealI 0elm-                        _Ma.  WCo porettly  gutaffd by .  hpetelin (bat by a mdIoi   mtmt
ttloify) to klilojom  of c...l oqo1loe t Pet ..pit.; 1940, 1970. Mi 1979                  a""  atw**s  *c") ~.1mir  .58v t"aetl.t  eeedt    mi pteoda 
dataeust U                                                                                       imp ad reEmdeel Is.oittOes.  ft. ftetd.Oio.l ,mi.e.- eyed  ~e8-
E04M  Alb    AL                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~tel. LMMtatled   9vteOC401 000e1  ep -Otto1led Weptela. Mi twol
n?           __~W10L                                                                      bwig           -,      e el    ttols cod -mi-tal m   rt-avlty *OW-.
Total ,fPf40pe44.or  Sc lli-*eo  - A.e  f July 1; 1960. 1970. NW 1979                       eptlalole  toa               Toa  aremb  of  dedales, .   or0 dle.b..er
Jns.         UK etrlcotet of totall - letld Of wob. to totLI popolatiust                       e la.NIfe          "IC    M       Sr6 .
diffel, d0lwre       ob'. eve.. my, efoct compeebility of dateaei
mo -ctrttle; 1960. 1070  ed 1970 de. .se.e                                                             m l4        in    mhe.bd  -tt.em                     i
L~M0tA9..lmL.~  -Culvert popol.o;lo  peJootiree  ore~ broad M. 155                =4 Chi as" amo   & heav             , orLodgen my St WY mt be tetlendw 08
1Wtote  pepe1Stlo  by  gec cod  -c eMd Chaeir moteity Mi   eortillty gt"t.             t.he . e."el  LEn eootiseoll oo-poe".
-vojctlos, p.,  te.. fco arrtelty roes- ceWvto  E` taese level ee.                                   1    a      (m-oae.e
led lif.                    ovits lawrom~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~topledoeollm
r.otltyecorto  to boomh leverl" ..d   peel Leely. perb  pereome.-1ooh                                                                         .   i oe
edofetIlIy  o . fo  tvoocto  eoooe                                                    .1 toaISOl, med. mI  i vere  dmIlloe  MC-oeolvy
stellcot,oe.oeIIo  - t e        Ctoletl   palatlosteeo " ml &OmIb edmela  v
the blfty vet."Le tqc  It hedot "Wto   odC e-lse Puthe         etteelreo
th    otto   .0_o   ot.1vpOdttOvt.m    me  Omoottm
ored      epae  Iel e_c    st- Cap l.   b   tolotyp91      m10 ortaitynwo
ml lcvtl,              .,mt. 'p                                                     t  v.in with. MIvoesel      ui- em lee  moetim  my  eee   o   eta
10v  ttlcto ecolecl  le teethedar - Tb. y.t tohm   .Itlee M      orow"atbe.           te          wi   t   e.  veeoteofca   tel..
t.1. biothe va.eoke.                                                                  Seq"Jvtt..hi  into   i fin)sod                 Ceepettd00 *01str.twedoe
th.  "blaret 1-porpord,to    opl"ter e9      440 llte  (180 boo,a.tt.   fmalepoA.atee    elyi.  ofmeegrvved poLeooMuy- to.tr.taO
ofboe o    pis-Itel e.                T.   .tmaye2pltftglw  "                              rSmm    o           dap M . or Meee  tsrc    vrratee oelotI   Lw,f
LIo p.t he. t0olcoltv of bed  p- Coreod  k.0 obovo toc. oeocl. rol '                    oell  .1   1  1    ome Of  sttrepem.  ore    t   ma
V ebatatJeeeled fm t(fer0t feeeMeo)-9 ietMu, tdMnttcttEn
;ee nl. cod vttv o (8 yJ.e eChdom  - Th.     co.taaee noft 01407 P 9-Lole           ml-    os  lome lwars  re of    sheodos tae tltttl   StMl .
.eL..; 194.  1970 Mobd 1970 date.                                                           -               -            w    b-l   - fores  tedee.te mrollder t
70ev pepoletlm  toy 1910-dO. 1980-70. cod 1970-am78.                                                             yroed Pimar  istratlea
?oo.atlo 0v.I~tot  lt.loet)-  ptar S- deel evre.t vol0  o   t.  e. brateItcvtteA    ei ""id"tIm, etedelte                                   -rble -o roo  cod wlIe
l.tlo.e   . for 1910- ... alr 98 -70.       ob.f,  w.l..1fods"l   d cd11970.78.of "o.I  etrlo.  eged 15  ev  eSd ovear.
Cr edo llttb totq (coy ;heeeeed) - Aaeoal 110. blrthe pet thotacod of  oldr-oral LoyetoIre
rllctles;190 198.170, edo 1970 d.t..                                                                                      1 r imta.                            1        .
FC-Imie et  tO'tg  Not     - th m) - dt.1.  eh  per th oeee  of tocldy. s                           oe   .tom    ±eod                -Pe.e  Oct. oyrl .I col
p.1010100t1980  1970. 'eldn 1070                17078 dote.                                                rt.0
tIlIty rote.; 000.117 0 l.oth  mor  StItoece- odllt.to 1960. 1970,-m b1977.
Islip_   __ _ __ __  __ _ __  __ __ __ _  __ __    - A ee   m  co  of o  o. le e                                                        f po  ol tl.-m    la eo .0 1
tinilyP.etoo h          bccelor.  -tea At.....-I~. limeed vo.aretverl of .lemlttMe md 08 peer. oh..   patnre.  cLteled
1.do o  tod  vodotle ov ..i    i  C.  aspni-7ec001    pred-to a-p.rootei  for-l  0.eo    ro2t. Mobil          Iheqemi es-11etloAl - ebefoo .. the oevoo    -lv J,
treol co of  .11l fodoit_      llloe.  lyodiootten      60 c 19ed 70.e -d  914 fgo                C t.e, imere.     1,Pe to.otarombod~  dt teed ciee    p. "dol to-
F-Ily p=uut -&.02t.% ~ itb2g" ) -   -1 ea (e. .4                          to haed adoll-~I  la aeste.v  0  lid   000 1a8.0 cr regotek.        f  -i-
.birtet -doftug01  4-1.koeeil   d  lotot ootvlcoftelee    ofe   e                     11am masl trt I  edmo.  VW." coot±     myv 00e  -. Cowe .. the io.~   of
toe eve excIluded).  Aaovet        f pradclcle ol ecob ;,centrtesb,od4  -led                t ioeesld db.n.aa thesy.etw*toeleoeete   odiot 
.to.tl hverobe  rodsre   _rI 4 oclI t  ;16-45  1970.  odI 197  Co.  .               v=       w
tao  oy.    vltatleecylle.ceerteldmctl leduolee  leLrtel-C.to" red  . ,uee  -r lo.6.eC.Clly, Olv TV  t.oeL. 1011410
ecoc,en0bnc  I   tc.lo   cple                            .0001O.a.do.rht e'"Ludo   h oeo.ite . eledate  e
qaoiteoo.cd  o  oo  yovooto.ed 101.1-Oe  It dlOtvfbIS,o..It.qo=1e                lbeof 10111...  0mveototteoe.colrleeeve cot domrch Ce; 198. 1970 e
ecoe  or  Cetote  bytA  beedotpbelcoeoo . Inde. LCar  red o.   01d          1979   d -tdpetc.            .rs412SM.  Mr                      t1  .Ci  . 
oIly ted-ealt reneldberlly C. vroodt..etcl  pewreory, botd. (..lobto,        o         t lme(.rce.t- itito apea.oSt rotc  so- t.1.1. CL 7dllbo    o
so  ec   ieolo ho of   edibl. sod, e tdo  c tlowO te 1   loootfr  cte0 S-.    force m                             to~j fArle   r r   teo. hinM- co
-ochl  .r..pld.94-45  1970. obiSt.  1665190 19790 dcl..                            - li  bil. -etIat..    o   oa   eo   oc;100   90ao17   ae
I! 000   Iutl  of ortot  -m rot doy)q, - toll   Coetee            d f potlt          oetvotet      ao   eo  o00..-ototo,oedto
z2et oop .ly of foo  -c  todey.pStepil.l  offod, II   d.L1oy., e  ebv..P-it.oIy    oo   dotes   .r.te    ftoe   .o  L                                          90
P., d.Y.   fo o-Iblot.tro   -ctobl..bdo by 01.  trold pfr   to la                   T970 Mr                           a-970 dab.                       =1.i.
_o...oco   O*ccof001rcecrvdy  042   rno   ae  .0                                    ptItoleIe  t.dr.    t-0000  sIS.&                    W.i  tOOdarte,t1O.
lIleep00110. ofoblIS Il.k.can eho pldbe .olOe   -.01-.  fhdc Card-,              -Soety tet.  rc      bwoede  bI-d,sl.cdOeelebr1c.
arc    d bo   ieo Oboe. yt7) dro   of tote  rto   and 2bt urr.  oeft.           peI.tIeeteo  ef total eeltr. eed       rad pCorp...".; 1of  111  70e . voetoy
-c.01 proiotced bYeverAt broa thep vordd.  ioo1.ed b .l f c  bonj thIrd               1990. 197..cd17   oe    he  o   11.yvlc.lett.rfetc
Ovidy  hood trhy  194id.,i 197 iod 197  dtrap.l.t.e-em ovrootcro=                                        - ofte        oEtl. adP-Clgo100  08   total labtor f.rO
Ped .:100di.0i.t1..cccf po.p.l.iac  Sod r1ooe.9 -    tcnsppyo  food t.fortoo alorf                         Ie.  .ato.1 er....J   -dd,fsly     -14-
rhved (tn-ntol c96od5 r19e0e Icom r19         o;7    91t   90          97 d.t...   ...    oooeo.oevto-f totl lb.. 9,p.1011600oa 195 Sad 145   '"'o.l
ChId (eeo1-A  loteI    101t.. (I,-pa toocd) - denool dolbpra   t P-"Pi.e In.f..L   fla    armto.sadlei
e5.ero,  -4  eer   or obtidoEn to thle  of efood I.c met!. devel    le- 00
Orc   oo oI odo Pre  101. tabice; 1940, 1970-Cotrarof eted  1977                                                                                       ...oc19.
oo.aiTtbl     d b  UDA   -i                                 I    lae                 l1eed 9          c  10m(cbttcb.dted.                     -oedb   hke
LIf Iceccnoy01  110  (yre _- P__ol  c,oe  Ofteod   of a    If rmeol  od           Ip-eto-el *  ret.  Itprct   .vo   0prol,S    ov                       0pr
cc  art;  940  190  doh 97  dcl.                                                   ofIS  hcwaMIeCAEae b.lda,of.1 ar                                    P-1.
,lc d. OcvOi  e. itoer thoneod)1   I       f..  dt.tb. fotof.   etdrOeyO             o             r
-acrl ofpeol   ttl tho   o   ovl   ihrecoboal    to                                    19e 0.rl1970ll  edeqe97S  dt.t Thlo - ceecoc   P., o-ivod reqlvco.ll -1. 000a
.occerdeooO, 2,, ly  (Icolodo. OS byd oortcotceole  t0  loqcOteohot end nteebetod                                                             trefordable
P"ooi or Occ=oe   p1 ..10  cot                Idy;O20   1to9t1ft.. 190  ordC 191y he.    IeC= ce I:    .ofte Octat.  fvo  levelto -d- Is d fre  Oh  rr
do!l tot hev  00eed       edleprop ttla      d pa Io   b   deaytIn fetar  the.bo  eISod-Pvcto   o.dto   obi   o   o.)woaecoll   cv
dovl-Mbr o_   pop.1(oe, otbol, hi.    turp-) foro.dby cocrted
dtgleol .c. d-rcvt-d     of- lt.rbcl..re9e0p 197    d197 pooclc. t..ocd.                                               Oo.Oco   cl    aahve
poeelT  ce   obd   toclocc   a   lpeIgI   roO.ltt.t...Ieab   doelte aed Pro-.otl  onorOesct 0.nro
oi 41.0 exrclif    cod ceeth -ocIlo t, 47..oe-rt efecan  orfh  coo. orese           .                                                Apht..,M1980
C-01,;rt1lrcevd 1970.ld197 dooltleoo



-21 -                                                                        A.4
1965       1975        197$(.)                                             M5 ~   m 197  112j       Im           iM           16           197$         1965
1877 6.6... .04 ~~~~~~h   Sot-  ~ ~    ~            ~..1  Otc.'.t  RtoeAs 68  p.tt of 801
rr0. O.nofl  Prodooof                  2854        5369        7367           86          034        133           .          1.             .            .         10.          107.5        113.5
Gob. loonlot.. ofT,ed.  4)                  .13                           Ia       -1207      )-&                                       .                       -8.4         -7.5        .13.5
G00... D-.ti.n  bo..23                              206        6876           726         1W         11066         4.8         17.0          3.8         4.4        100. 0       100.0        100.0
207000 (jool. 8703           ~~~663      1190       2642            2638        2278       4059         9.1         18.4          3.1          4.4         25.2         36.4         36.7
-________________1549__                                                      249        -_*7                     3.0          1.5          4.           4.0         44.0         32.5         38.5
R.--ro  Gop                             495         -41                        I"67                                                                                   o.8          T              .
COOooowtllo  Eopondt60-                1728        3552       4510           4952        MM9         8519          7.5         8.3          5.6           5.2        65.6         65.6          73.8
If-ve.t en      (toc1.  tlokloe         409        995        2297           2146        2176        2$67         9.3         32.2         -0.1          4.2         15.5         33.4         24.4
D-to.1  S-.01.8                         905        851        2082            1370        2195        2679       -0.1         34.7          0.6           4.1        34.4         30.3         24.6
801lonol S-oles.                        450         573        1525           1307        1635        2106         2.4         38.6          1.0          5.2         17.1        22.2          t8.3
KZ9CHA2IDISE 7RA00                                       .h~l D.. to  Wermeot Otto.                                                                                        Ae F..t. of Tt.11
Co'pl6-1  -od.                          61        533         788             835        1206       1961        18.5         33.8          6.1         10.5         23.9         3W.          23.2
M    -oodi.0e g.od. (tool, fool.)    59          311         446            627        1149        2010        18.1         12.8         16.5         11.8         23.1         15.2         23.1
8oel,. .0dtl,lotd .06..0.10            13        157         219             396        924        1439        28.3         11.7         22.6          9.3          5.1          9.5         17.8
of  hi.o6   P.too._                  4         146    . 171               596         9264        43         43.2          5.4         27.3          9.3          1.6          7.4         17.8
-o.oobo   .08                  122         364        J3M            131         m1Z         iML          1.          32.9         12.2         10.0        47.8          36.9         36.9
T-~1 M.0-h. bp.  t. 6o lol)           273       1165        2317            2969       5199         6501       16.4         25.8         12.2         10.3        100.0        100.0        100.0
L.P. t.
Plto-y Poodoo. (01. fool.)           246        1019        3324           2792        4764        7929        15.3         32.8          7.4         10.7         86.0         901          80.4
fool..08  .lold .C Io                  -          67           6             120        612           0          .            .7         32.3           .-                       2.6         LO1.3
of46o6   P.  oo-                             63          66             120        612            o         ..7                     32.:3          .-2.6                                10.3
Sloolotod .ood_.                   40         135         168            238         $4        1167        141          .2.7.        18.4         167          14.0O         6.3          9.3
T0t01    -h0.  90.6  (fob)           286        1241        2578            3150       597         9116        15.8         27.6         14.2          9.0        100.7        100.0        100.0
H.-oh-d.od     T-d.d  I.di...                                A-mmlO  1977 0180
Eopoot Pftot bod.o                    22          46          95             i1l        151         182,
I.7006 Polo. In1                      49          97          117            152        216         300
boo.  fITA...d 18045                              49          81              73         69          61
EoPOoO. Volo.J. dno                   54         100         114            119         164         210
VALUE1 600D 0Y SE CTOR
A-"IoBll2. At0 1977 Priceg ;jBxoko..o8 8.6.                             6,0.0. A.-oI Gr0th Netn.                          As Percent of 706.1
A0010-1-..                          1027        11          156             71         212         2585         4.01         1.5          4.1          4.2         35.9        233.3         22.0
Indo..-y .0d 181.008                 491         935  -     1408           1614        2007        2513         6.         i16.8          4.4          4.6         17.1         21.6         21.0
9.0i.01                             1346        2933        3917           4249±       5444        7211         6.1          9.2          5.2          5.8         470          55.1         57.0
T-1o                                 2864       5369        6091           7594        9555       12311         6.5          8.7          4.6          5.1        100.0        100.0.    100.0
(Cetnoool  =onooof                                                                                                                                                        A. Poero..t of GDP
Cr0.0.  On.p572                                 926        1244           1350        1530        1859         4.9         10.3          3.2          2.8         20.0         (8.1         16.2
Co.no Cooot oo                       416         769        j3             1050        1150        1350         6.           7.6          2.           3.3         14.6         13.9         12.0
0080.0007 5.0100.          ~~~154       157         285            300         400         509        02           22.0          5.0         4:.6         5.4          4.1          4.2
00600 Pobli, Se.00                     is        581        1273            1200       1450        1700        441          29.9          1.9          3.2          0.5         70.5         15.2
Pobibo000. S. n-o.-t-t6               139        736        1556           1500        1850        2200        18.2         28.3          2.3          3.5          4.9         02.6         19.4
CURRNT EXP16I1URE 0O762IL1                 .A  641                 1861.0DETAIL9.O1                                                                                       US S olISlo.
60   Ttf 061 Cur-tn fop.             196      1975    1976      1979      j980                       PUBLIC  826A  0   97P.81
Edoc6io                                  17.9    53.8    31.7       28.5     29.6                       INETu  P~(                                                        (1976-807
066.0  Soit1 1._010..                    10.4    14.1    11.0       11.3      11.9                      Sooll bb,                                                   2014              32
AN 0.100t00_                              4.6     3.2      2.5       2.5       2.6                      60010                                                       1822              29
0AOth- 1000-,I, 0016..-                  16.5    23.5    23.6       23.6      22.0                      lo.do..ty .0d 01i.i8                                         124               2
Ado.i  100i10  _nd  f.1.0.               57.0    20.6    22.2       22.0      21.3                      P-.00                                                        3000
006er                                    13.6     2.6   7.j 0       1j      J.JA                        T-.op-oltnI   .d CoOI.L..t0                                 1303              21
T-01 Co-en  Eopeedito.-                 100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0                         oth                                                          478             8A
_____ ____ ____ ____ _____ ____ ____ ____ _____ ____ ____ ____ _____ ____ ____ _        1T . 1    lop odl. 000t                                    6242              100
501.076  1IN1066001                        1960.   1865-   1970-    1975.                                  FINANCING
(C.loolotod fo  3-Yn.o o0.0.gd 8.6.)  1965    i9i0    1975            1980                                     Pbl1i0 S.ooto S1.01.                                                     57
4000080  C001                               1.       2.6     3.        3.7                                     P-.-g. Aid C-t-p10.tp0                                   -
t.P..t Elo.llot                             0.6      1.4     1.        1.5                                     P.-rih. P03.0t Aid                                     ___43
t90801  0,01  10-108  Net0          0.18    0.22      0.40    .0.90                                    Tt.a  F1nn                                             64,24             100
9.06101 i010.1 S-ilg. Rt1.             0.12    0.16    0.54       -.70
70.Ibor Poo,,                                           Po1. A48.d Per W-ok.  (1967.69 POlo.. 6 760h.00.  Net.
1LAB0R 70000 AND0                        1, 8111.0              J        tAl*           1965-73                  1. U.1. Wileao           h.o t of A-.oq            1965-73
oUTUTpo  no WoORo                      1965         1973        1965        1975       Oooth lot.                1965        1673          1963         1973       G_th60  Ret.
AS tlool-n                             1743         2293       65.7         85.8            3.2                   2019        213          40.4         30.6           0.3
Iodo.try                                143         234          7.6          9.2          6.4                   1210        1513         234.6        215.2          -1.0
100010                                  127           20        6.7          8.0           5.9                   3963        4223         764.6        687.8           2.6
Totol                                  2013         2528       100.0       100.0            3.7                   517         703         180.8        100.0           3.9
001  ppl6.bl   -  iL oongligiblo



-  22  -                                                             AIMIX I
(saate  La ai lli_  ci U18  dClas  at 8a55.at pstsa.)
Avr.5.  Aisal
lAasaI                            bOiate.td                                       project.                                          cr-ts hat.
4978         075            197u  l                     1975           1979          1980        1 t1          .08           191cI       1985                1978-
1985
SIUGI ULcr Of PAMDTll
2partU  (inel. II)                   1400          5.40           1935          2760          3006           3322          37t6        4657          5229          5853        7413
7~~~~~~~~~a                          t u                               un   "")   1 97                           231    3s 4702            auc n4                     7049
Saassissa hIaI.   (2-8)               122          -111                           438          *75           -220          -202         .45            60           109         364
lateart                               -3'           -56            -64          -104          -201           -259          -2e6        -329          -380         -423         -515
D16tr      I.vet_t I c                 -53          -83             60            -56          -U             -80           -83         -87           -90           -94        -101
1.16r4r6  S_ttaac                    -139          -163           -170           -35)         .420           -476          -509        -5            -572          -601        -662
QLL(Vzt)                                47           27             80          .231             33             39           45           so           55            59          70
4aLM   -   V.r    "t a                 jjt         Z *             t             -390         :2KQ      n     fl           -      1 019 fl4           900           918   - 1064
friwta Dirtct la.awata                  33           81             37              3           26             30            32           34           37            39          63
offt.it  CapitaI outs                   15           19             17             20           21             22            23          23            27            29          35
9.bnsamta                          218           326           335            Uc            996           1007         1477         1495          1618         1821        2038
-ia           -s            -in            Zia                         9              0                     --163
TI n _ t   11   2           246            725           773            639          996          930          928          1017          975
Otbar 5N8   Loam,/
Capttal  sramacttmls S.a.i,             29           51             .3          -276            32
*8aaa  La tat Iaar,so                 -61            93            .30            .82         -132                                                                Actu I                       l.atleeasd
I12&    ~~~1U  lilA ~~197              l9ii
Oe  S rCr_ ^ k 19  17       20                                         TtI  Dabt .t5. i D.ab ---d          68c        916       1167        1962         2918
h/bli  II 2.T laE.                                                                                             I.ta.-at -. Pabli, Dabt             30         36          66        104          201
ifl                                2i           134             48             so            61             *cpf7 sa" aa o  Publi. Debt         77          76        109        184           223
IDA                                                       0                                   0             Total Osbli  Dt b. 6rtc           113        132         175        288           424
Otba                                                                                                        Otbar Debt Semia c (.at)             2           3          0          0             0
Otbas r   ttlatasrl                 34             6            2e             49            30             Total Debt L5r .0  (o t)           117         135        175        288           424
C. =                                47            31           121            203            40
o lt.                               89           188           169            357            90           urd_ on EWrprt rEasta  (1)    7.9               9.8         9.8       10.4          14.0
toam_ctl Ictitutirc                031            97           484            831           444
sed.                                 0             0             0              0             0             rub1li  D  btasntsa                7.9        9.8         8.8       10.4          14.0
p..b.p. 7  - _  n^.S               ..              O~            .r            D.           .               THtAl Debt 6asvt.                  7.9        8.8         8.8       10.4          14.0
Taotl Pabli. MILT Iaaaa               151          -17             88             1            84               UD7wts.tt lanat. Ias.             11.5       14.2       16.1       12.4          16.9
mtsa l tabs OAfatMdiML  -  DSKs  31. 1978                     Aas a       rlas.  of labis Dabt
Vovld Sak                                         175                                6                        let  cI S Po, Y .o  DD00           5.2         5.8        3.6        8.8          10.3
7Dt                                                 a                                0                       lA-1        II P vol- Y_r DODi0   10.5         8.4         9.2       15.9          11.3
Otb r t.Iulatmasa                                 175                                4
Goave     to                                      437                               16                      IUD tabt tat. & Dlab.saad
lappltas                                         410                                is                           as % loblis Debt 010D           6.7        7.7         7.5        7.3          6.2
pi-ot'   lalsotitioaaa                           1353                                                                  P as S 7lta  Debt 8acr.    2.8       4.2         4.8        I.6           0.0
Saada                                              20                                1
P.bli. Debt, o       -                           ..A                                                       ID4 Dabt Out. * Oab, asd
Tvesl Pobli. M.T Dabt                           2819                               I0O                          *a % Publi  Debt 08iD             -         0.2         0.3        0.2           0.3
a     t rub li. Bobs S-Lt a                            0.1        0.0           0.0
Othea  34LT  Debta
Short-cat   Dtbt (diab.  aly)
sos applisabl.             I/  italo1ad is PbIle  9A?T Laaa.
os    illbl.
- nil To sagligiblb



-23-                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of May 31, 1981)
US$ Millions
Loan or     Fiscal                                        (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower           Purpose          Bank     IDA      Undisbursed
One          Credit Fully Disbursed                              7.5
Seventeen    Loans  Fully Disbursed                    122.8
837-IVC      1972   Ivory Coast        Highways III    17.5                   0.9
981-IVC      1974   Ivory Coast        Telecom-         17.4                  8.7
munications
1069-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast        Cocoa II         20.0                  3.4
1077-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast        Cotton           31.0                  5.9
1124-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast        Tourism           9.7                  2.6
1161-IVC     1976   Ivory Coast        Highways V       43.0                  4.1
1162-IVC     1976   CCI               DFC                5.6                  1.7
1177-IVC     1976   BIDI              DFC                8.0                  3.6
1347-IVC     1977   Ivory Coast       Urban Dev.        30.0                 10.1
1348-T-IVC  -1977   Ivory Coast       Urban Dev.        14.0                  4.7
1484-IVC     1978   Ivory Coast       Water Supply    16.0                    4.5
1490-IVC     1978   RAN               Railway           23.0                  0.9
1501-IVC     1978   Ivory Coast        Feeder Roads    29.0                  11.9
1575-IVC     1978   Ivory Coast       Rubber II        20.0                   6.7
1577-IVC     1978' Ivory Coast        Abidjan
Sewerage II     33.0                  27.5
1633-IVC     1979   Ivory Coast       Rubber III         7.6                  4.9
1663-IVC     1979   Ivory Coast       CCI-Artisans    12.6                   11.5
1698-IVC     1979   Ivory Coast       Tourism II        14.2                 13.0
1738-IVC     1980   Ivory Coast       Forestry          18.0                 14.2
1777-IVC     1980   Ivory Coast       Education III   24.0                   23.1
1827-IVC     1980   Ivory Coast       Rural Dev.         9.4                  9.4
1896-IVC     1981   EECI              Power             33.0                 33.0
1914-IVC/1   1981   Ivory Coast       Highway Sector 100.0                  100.0
TOTAL                                       658.8      7.5       306.3
of which has been repaid               33.1      -
TOTAL now outstanding                       625.7      7.5
Amount sold                          5.1
of which has been repaid       5.1       0.0      -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA              625.7     7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                           306.3     0.0        306.3
/1   Not yet effective.



-24 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of May 31, 1981)
US$-000
Type of
Year     Obligator                   Business       Loan       Equity       Total
1965     Banque Ivoirienne          Industrial         -        204.0       204.0
de Developpement         Development
Industriel               Bank
1978     do.                        do.                         219.5       219.5
1977     Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.  Textiles                     884.7       884.7
1980     Societe Ivoirienne         Fertilizers  5,120.0    1,272.0    6,392.0
d-Engrais
1980     MSO                        Flour Mill   2,900.0        406.7    3,306.7
Total gross commitments                  8,020.0    2,986.9   11,006.9
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                              _          _           _
Total commitments now
held by IFC                            8,020.0    2,986.9   11,006.9



- 25 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Ln. No. 981           Telecommunications Project:  US$25 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project has experienced a two-year slippage due mainly to management
and organizational changes and delays in appointing engineering consultants.
After the Government awarded the contract for switch'ng equipment to other
than the lowest evaluated bidder, the amount earmarked under the loan to
finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contingencies) was can-
celled as of March 31, 1977 (R77-128). A 50 percent tariff increase for
telecommunication services, effective January 1, 1978, is expected to generate
the cash necessary for the Postal and Telecommunication Office to carry out
its expanded investment program, although at a lower pace than anticipated.
Ln. No. 1069          Second Cocoa Project:  US$20 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project includes:  establishing of 26,500 ha of high yielding cocoa planta-
tion, of which 9,500 ha would be planted in 76 blocks composed of individual
plots; providing technical assistance and credit to farmers; constructing
wells; constructing or rehabilitating access roads; and strengthening the
management. The project physical target has been met and SATMACI management
is satisfactory. The problem of quality of cocoa has been closely followed
and decisive progress in fermentation and drying techniques of cocoa have been
achieved. The financial situation of SATMACI is unsatisfactory as a result of
administrative delays in the payment of Government's contributions. Ways to
improve the situation have been recently discussed with SATMACI and the Min-
istry of Agriculture.
Ln. No. 1077          Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:  US$31 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial delays in starting the feeder roads and the village water supply
programs have been made up. The development of cotton production is far ahead
of the appraisal estimates (36 percent). Improved food crop production is,
however, stagnating because of marketing problems. Disbursements are behind
schedule due to the re-organization of CIDT's accounting system and the
administration-s slowness in processing the withdrawal applications. Discus-
sions between the Government and RMWA on these various issues are underway.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 26-                         ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Ln. No. 1124          Tourism Development Project:  US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily.  The loan has been fully
committed.
Ln. No. 1161          Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The pavement strengthening program was completed mid-1978 on schedule.
Construction work has been substantially delayed because of technical and
management difficulties. Consultants have started the engineering studies
provided for under the project. UNDP was originally to finance the updating
of the transport survey but cannot do so due to lack of funds. The Governiient
has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to include financing of the survey in
this loan.
Ln. No. 1162          Small-Scale Enterprises Project:  US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.  The loan is now fully
committed.
Ln. No. 1177          BIDI DFC Project:  US$8 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Over 80 percent of the loan amount has been committed.
Ln. No. 1347          Urban Development Project:  US$44 million.  Loans
and 1348-T            (US$30.0 million and US$14 million on Bank and Third
Window terms respectively) of December 15, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: March 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The execution of the project is progressing satisfactorily with regard to the
urban transport and sites components. The shelter component is still delayed
mostly because of slow administrative procedures in on-lending the proceeds of
the loan to the executing agencies. The matter has now been solved and the
project is expected to be completed in eighteen months.



- 27 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Ln. No. 1484          Secondary Centers Water Supply Project:  US$16 million
Loan of September 9, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 9,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily on schedule.
Ln. No. 1490          Regional Railway Project:  US$23 million Loan of
November 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Despite initial delays in fulfilling conditions of effectiveness, procurement
has now taken place and the outstanding loan funds ($   ) are expected to be
disbursed in the next few weeks.
Ln. No. 1501          Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project:  US$29
million Loan of December 22, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
October 17, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1575          Second Grand Bereby Rubber Project:  US$20 milll-'
Loan of June 9, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Because of the establishment of a separate entity to manage the Grand Bereby
rubber plantations, (S0.G.B.) the structure of the legal documents for this
project had to be amended. Execution of the project, nevertheless, proceeded
satisfactorily under Bank staff supervision. On July 17, 1980, the new agree-
ments to substitute for the original ones were submitted for approval to the
Executive Directors (R80-213) and signed on August 6, 1980. They became effec-
tive on September 15, 1980, and US$__  million have been disbursed to date.
Ln. No. 1577          Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$33
million Loan of June 1978: Effectiveness Date: Septem-
ber 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
SAPH Rubber Project: US$7.6 million loan of November 30,
1978; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1663          Artisans, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Project:
US$12.6 million Loan of June 15, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: November 28, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.



-28 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Ln. No. 1698           Second Tourism Development Project:  US$14.2 million;
Loan of June 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: May 9, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1735          Forestry Project:  US$18 million Loan of August 2, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 14, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.                                 0
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1777          Third Education Project:  US$24 Million Loan of
December 28, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1827          North-East Savannah Rural Development Project:  US$9.4
million Loan of May 27, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1896 1/       First Power Project:  US$33 million loan of September 11,
1980;  Effectiveness Date:  March 27, 1981;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1986.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1914 1/       Highway Sector Project:  US$100.0 million loan of
March 19, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
1/   Not yet effective.



- 29 -                       ANNEX III
IVORY COAST
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   March 1979 through May 1980
(b)  Agency which prepared project:   Government with Bank staff assistance
(c)  Departure of appraisal mission:  May 1980
(d)  Post-appraisal mission:           October 1980
(e)  Completion of negotiations:       May 13, 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:   November 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government during negotiations provided assurances on the
following principal items:
(a) part of the proceeds of the proposed loan would be relent by Govern-
ment to SOTRA for construction of a new bus depot and other works
for improved bus operations; execution of the subsidiary loan
agreement would be a condition of Loan effectiveness (para. 38); and
(b) SOTRA would undertake a study to define its medium-term financial
and operational strategy, and would implement a plan of action based
on the recommendations of that study in consultation and agreement
with the Bank (para. 48).






IBRD 15081
; 9 8,                                                                                                                        tM ;0 /:t'   '  'tA!::' '5 1t b 0 g t0 . :f: 0E1                                                 ."!                '          0 IVORY COAST    NOVEMEFI 
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
~~~ Y~~~~LTA ~~~~POPULATION  Di TIBUTION~
'0        j         Xisgl. 2M Brgutuu <>_t  }  0Urban population distribution o towvn ove 
-----200,000
-100,000
M.d-                                                                                      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~-_ 50,000
0 X: LDEd Ad; -X ---25,000
RKESSEDOUGOU                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~-10,6000
One dot represents 1,000 in in
Proiect citi's
QUINF'A                    kod~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gq.  f  ~~~~                                ~         ____Expressway
Expressway uncder constructions
Paved roads,                7I'
Earth end gravel rpao
Roilways                     , 3
.4 International airports
bokdi.'    Other ai'rports
.. Por-ts
Rivers
BONDOVK0U                         National capital
® Departmentpl capitals
K -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                 0~~~~~~~~~ Other towns
/           -. -  I~~~~nternational boundaries
too,, ran., oPoor), bound,o,s         r
Thil~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
-ytd
sou  u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ksoooo N'.2A!SO                                            TE$oEA
LI-eE  R I                                                     6                                  SENEGAI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bON
-   I NAE 
bo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    SOEU 
I ~   f o( 55o'O



