 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14686

                     ICR Review
                     Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                         Date Posted: 04/13/2015

               Country: India
             Project ID: P078832                                                     Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Karnataka                      Project Costs (US$M):                  133.33              140.39
                         Panchayats
                         Strengthening Project
  L/C Number:            C4211                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                      120              127.06
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural          Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                   06/29/2006
                                                                 Closing Date:             03/31/2012           03/30/2014
         Sector(s):         Sub-national government administration (99%); Other social services (1%)
         Theme(s):          Rural services and infrastructure (25% - P); Rural policies and institutions (25% - P);
                            Decentralization (24% - P); Environmental policies and institutions (13% - S); Participation
                            and civic engagement (13% - S)

Prepared by:                Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                    Coordinator:
Stefano Migliorisi          Clay Wescott            Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Development Credit Agreement (p.15) states that the objectives of the project is “to assist Karnataka in
    improving the effectiveness of service delivery by Karnataka’s Gram Panchayats particularly with respect to the
    management of public resources and the delivery of relevant services that rural people prioritize”. The Project
    Appraisal Document - PAD (pages vi and 3) states the project development objective (PDO) as to improve the
    effectiveness of service delivery by Karnataka’s Gram Panchayats (village governments) particularly with respect
    to the management of public resources and the delivery of relevant services that the rural people prioritize. The
    PAD uses an almost identical wording, adding only the two words within parentheses above.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

     The project had four components. Actual amounts are as of project closing and are expressed in US$ and/or
    local currency (expressed in crore rupees or Rs Cr – one crore is equal to 10 million Indian rupees).

     Component 1: Block grants to Gram Panchayats (Original Cost: US$ 113.33 million equivalent to Rs 510 Cr;
    Revised amount: Rs 565.44 Cr; Disbursed Amount: Rs 565.13 Cr; Actual Expenditure: Rs. 491.9 Cr). This
    component was designed to provide block grants to 1,343 village governments or Gram Panchayats (GPs) in the
    39 poorest rural blocks (Taluks) of the State of Karnataka. Taluks are the intermediate level of government in the
    three-tier local government structure in India, and GPs are the lowest. The Gram Panchayats are expected to
    implement the decisions of the Gram Sabhas, Grants were to be used for the delivery of services listed in the
    Panchayats’ perspective/participatory plans and budgets. To be eligible, GPs had to have put in place the new
    Financial Management and Accounting System prepared by the state of Karnataka, implemented the new
   planning guidelines, and hold regular Gram Sabha meetings with open participation and publicly display FM and
   procurement information. The formula for the first year would be based on poverty, costs of service provision and
   service deficit. From the second year on, an element of performance was supposed to be introduced.

   Component 2: Capacity Building and Information Systems for Constituents (Original Cost: US$ 1.43 million
   equivalent to Rs 6.44 Cr; Revised amount: Rs 6.66 Cr; Disbursed Amount: Rs 6.49 Cr; Actual Expenditure: Rs.
   6.16 Cr). This component focused on increasing the ability of rural people to voice their demands to local
   governments and eliciting responses from them, in particular for the poorest and excluded people such as
   women, scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. The component was designed to support community
   organizations (such as women self help groups or SHGs) watershed associations, drinking water committees,
   and others) in participating in the new Panchayat planning process, voice their demands from government, and
   access services and programs. as well as in providing relevant and easy-to-understand information to
   constituents.

   Component 3: Building the capacity of Panchayats (Original Cost: US$ 14.97 million equivalent to Rs 67.37 Cr;
   Revised amount: Rs 87.39 Cr; Disbursed Amount: Rs 60.04 Cr; Actual Expenditure: Rs. 48.02 Cr). The
   objective of this component was to increase the capacity of all three levels of Punchayats in managing resources,
   collecting revenues and delivering services. In total about 5,500 local governments and 100,000 elected
   representatives were supposed to benefit through (a) the creation of GP resource cells at the Taluk level; (b)
   service delivery monitoring system; (c) training programs for Panchayats through the State Institute of Rural
   Development; (d) computerized financial management system for GPs; and (e) environmental guidelines for
   Panchayats.

   Component 4: Building the capacity of the State (Original Cost: US$ 3.0 million equivalent to Rs 13.50 Cr;
   Revised amount: Rs 87.39 Cr; Disbursed Amount: Rs 60.04 Cr; Actual Expenditure: Rs. 48.02 Cr). This
   component aimed at putting in place systems at the state level to enable it to oversee, facilitate and manage the
   Panchayat system in general and the Karnataka Panchayats Strengthening Project ((KPSP) in particular. It
   supported, inter alia, the establishment of a Decentralization Analysis Cell (DAC) responsible for analysis,
   evaluation, monitoring of fiscal flows to panchayats, own revenues and service delivery and provide inputs for the
   development of the intergovernmental fiscal system.

   The original project design included unallocated funds for US$0.6 million equivalent to Rs 2.69 Cr.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Cost

   Total project costs at appraisal were US$133.33 million equivalent to Rs 600 Cr. Amounts in local currency were
   later revised due to the appreciation of the US$ to Rs 674 Cr. A total of Rs 644 Cr were disbursed, of which Rs
   565 Cr as block grants. The amounts of expenditures were lower (Rs 558 Cr) as there is a time lag between
   release to GP and actual expenditure.

   Financing

   The project was funded through an IDA credit of US$120 million. US$ 127 million were disbursed, with the
   difference was due to appreciation of the US$ vs SDRs over the life of the project.

   Borrower Contribution

   There was a borrower contribution of US$13.33 million that was fully paid in.

   Dates

   Approved by the Bank’s Board on June 29, 2006, the project became effective on October 4, 2006. A mid-term
   review was carried out in November 2009. The project closing date was extended three times from March 31,
   2012 to December 31, 2012, then December 31, 2013 and finally to March 30, 2014, when the project eventually
   closed.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   The objective of the project was to improve the effectiveness of service delivery by Karnataka’s Gram
   Panchayats (village governments) particularly with respect to the management of public resources and the
   delivery of relevant services that the rural people prioritize.

   This objective is:
                                               th
        consistent with the Government’s 12 5-Year Plan (2012-2017) where inclusive growth is a key priority and
         25 percent of the total Central Budget Plan provision is devoted to rural development. Devolution to GPs is
         recognized as important for example in water and sanitation where the Ministry of Drinking Water and
         Sanitation has devised a Management Devolution Index (MDI) to track and incentivize more substantive
                                                                                          th
         devolution of functions, funds and functionaries to the Gram Panchayats (see 12 5 Year Plan, volume II, p.
         301). Both the GOI and the Bank plan to support public-private participation schemes in the delivery of social
         services in rural areas between GPs and the private sector.

        consistent with the latest Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy - CPS (FY13-17). In particular, the Strategy’s
         third strategic engagement area (Inclusion) has a strong focus on providing better services (e.g., health,
         education, electricity) to the rural areas where an overwhelming majority of the nation’s poor people (four out
         of every five) still live. Under the Strategy’s second area (Transformation), the CPS recognizes that
         transformation calls for further empowering local governing bodies in rural and urban areas across India so
         that ‘they are able to identify and respond to local needs and to plan long-term for a more systematic
         rural-urban transformation’ (page 31). This area also includes outcome 2.3 (improved access to water
         supply and sanitation services) that will be the aim of two Bank projects using, inter alia, new performance
         for results instruments in GPs.

        consistent with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy at appraisal which highlighted a specific need of
         improving government’s effectiveness through decentralization and accelerating pro-poor rural development
         through more effective delivery mechanisms, and by strengthening the rural safety net and beneficiary
         participation.

        consistent with the decentralization strategy of the Government of Karnataka, a state characterized by a long
         history of rural local governments, more than any other state in India, dating back to the early 1980’s that
         made it an ideal candidate for a model of decentralized service delivery that could set an example for the
         rest of India (see PAD, p. 1).

        sufficiently ambitious given country conditions, as reaching the rural poor is one of the most difficult
         challenges India is still facing.
   The relevance of objectives is therefore rated as substantial.

b. Relevance of Design:


   The design did present a convincing causal chain between inputs, outputs and outcomes, although it lacked
   several baseline data. The actions supported by the project were expected to improve the capacity of Gram
   Panchayats to deliver services prioritized by local people. The project assumed that the provision of untied funds
   alongside capacity development in a context where most planning decisions would be made by Gram/Ward
   Sabha would result in construction of assets and provision of services that address the above local needs and
   priorities.The choice of lending instrument (Sector Investment Credit blending programmatic support for the block
   grants and investment lending for capacity building) was appropriate.
   The relevance of design was therefore substantial.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   The project’s objective was to improve the effectiveness of service delivery by Karnataka’s Gram Panchayats
   (village governments) particularly with respect to the management of public resources and the delivery of relevant
   services that the rural people prioritize (objective 2).

   Objective 1. Improved the management of public resources by improving the financial health and systems of
   village governments.

   The increase in own source revenue and financial health of village governments was substantial as own source
   revenues more than doubled between FY07 and FY13 from a baseline of US$6 million to US$14 million (target:
    US$16 million). However, unconditional grants remained a small share of village governments’ revenues (9
    percent of total GP revenues in FY13) thus providing limited planning autonomy to village and ward meetings,
    and reducing the potential for an even higher project’s impact on effective local participation and ownership.

    At the same time, the project contributed to improved financial systems, as by the Project close 5629 GPs (100
    percent against a baseline of 0 percent and a target of 89 percent) had adopted Panchatantra, a web-based
    application for GP’s to feed in their accounts, meeting proceedings, Gram/Ward Sabha details, Jamabandi /
    Social Audit, and make all necessary information related to the GP accessible to the public. This review rates the
    efficacy of this PDO substantial.
    Objective 2. Improved the delivery of services that rural people prioritize as shown by increased participation in
    planning and rising satisfaction of village residents with service delivery.

    The number of Gram or Ward Sabhas with high and representative participation and relevant participatory plans
    reflecting community preferences of local population as measured by the project, grew by 72 percent between
    FY07 and FY12 (target: 60 percent). In addition there was a 33 percent increase of participation by women, and
    a 21 percent increase in household members’ participation. 1341 Most Backward GPs developed 5-year
    perspective plans and annual plans based on priorities of their community members. However, these plans were
    never revised over the 5-year period they covered and might have not captured changing constituents’ priorities,
    as noted in the ICR (p. 16).

    The village residents’ satisfaction with service delivery by GP’s also grew from 48 percent in 2009 to 55 percent
    by project’s closing (target: 60 percent, while baseline was missing). The project disbursed block grants that were
    used to develop 25,212 roads; 8,029 drainage lines; 1,652 community toilets; 2,947 drinking water facilities;
    1,537 Anganwadi Buildings; and other assets in the 1,341 “most backward” GPs of the State of Karnataka. In
    addition, 172 Taluk centers had been built by the project’s closing date. Information on GP revenues,
    expenditures, and procurement decisions of were publicly disclosed, and the share of GPs doing so reached 94
    percent by the end of the project. The end-of-project impact evaluation found that assets that were constructed
    under the Project were rated better in terms of quality of design and construction in Project GPs compared to
    non-Project GPs, by both engineers and focus groups.

    Based on the above, the project contributed to stronger and more transparent financial management, and
    improved services through the implementation of small projects responding to the priorities set by these
    communities. This review therefore rates the efficacy of the PDO as substantial.




5. Efficiency:

    The project appraisal did not include an economic analysis determining an NPV or an ERR, and the ICR did not
    carry out such an analysis either. The ICR points out that 100 percent of the block grants were disbursed, and
    that utilization by the project GPs was 95 percent of the total disbursement. However, the ICR team should have
    been able to provide information on unit rate norms for construction or technical assistance that IEG cannot
    calculate in the absence of detailed data on units (e.g., type and kilometers of roads, days of technical
    assistance), and their cost.

    Nevertheless, implementation delays of 24 months and the high turnover of staff at the project’s implementation
    unit all point to significant inefficiencies in project implementation.

    The efficiency of the project is therefore rated as modest.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       No
    ICR estimate                    No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
   The project contributed to significant investments at the village level according to plans developed by local
   residents of the poorest districts of the State of Karnataka. The project also supported improvements in village
   governments’ financial management and transparency. However, the planning autonomy of village governments
   remains limited. While the relevance of the project’s objectives and design as well as its efficacy were all
   substantial, there were moderate shortcomings in the project’s efficiency rated as modest. The combination of
   these elements leads IEG to an overall outcome rating of “moderately satisfactory ”.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   IEG concurs with the ICR rating of the risk to development outcome as substantial. The main achievements of
   the project (e.g., community-planned investments and improved FM capacity in the most backward GPs) could
   be reversed unless: (a) the share of unconditional grants over total block grants is increased beyond the current
   level of 9 percent, thus making local participation more meaningful; (b) capacity building efforts are sustained
   over time and well trained staff retained by the GPs; and (c) weaker members of local communities are supported
   so that their voices can be better heard during village or ward meetings.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project addressed relevant development challenges, and its design was simple, flexible and realistic. The
   project benefitted from substantial prior research carried out by the Bank on local governments in Karnataka
   and other Indian states including “Overview of Rural Decentralization in India”, “Fiscal Decentralization to
   Rural Governments”, “Punchuyats and Resource Allocation in South India”, and “Local Organizations for
   Decentralized Development in India”. However, the project’s results framework lacked several baseline
   indicators, some indicators were not well defined, and disbursement procedures were not well designed. As
   noted in the ICR (page 8), implementation gaps emerged immediately after project start (2007-2008),
   primarily in the planning process and the information to constituents, as these activities related to the
   disbursement of block grants and their utilization. Such design weaknesses, combined with frequent changes
   in political and technical leadership, caused a delay in project implementation of 24 months. Finally, the PAD
   did not include a an economic analysis either through traditional measures or cost -effective analysis.

   Given such shortcomings, the Bank’s performance on quality at entry is rated as moderately unsatisfactory .


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank spent substantial resources on supervision, with a total of eleven supervision missions over seven
   years. The Bank team immediately identified the implementation challenges faced by the project and
   described above, rating the project as moderately unsatisfactory in both supervision missions in 2008. Once
   such gaps in the monitoring framework and disbursement procedures were identified, the Bank team and the
   Implementing Agency addressed them, leading to a significant improvement in project performance.
   However, the process of identifying weaknesses and solutions took over two years, a relatively long period of
   time.

   Given the above, the Bank’s performance on quality of supervision is rated as moderately satisfactory .



  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory
9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

    The Government supported project’s activities at design and was initially keen to strengthen decentralization.
    However, pace of reform slowed down due to changes in political leadership over the first two years of the
    project that reduced the attention paid to decentralization. After the Mid-Term Review, Government provided
    strong support to the project, and its commitment is also proven by its request for a follow-on project.


  Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    Frequent changes in project leadership over the period 2006-2009 affected project performance. The
    performance of the implementing agency, thanks to a new management team, improved drastically after
    Mid-Term Review, leading to the completion of all project activities by project closing.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

    The original project design included a monitoring and evaluation framework that lacked baseline values -
    determined only in 2009, three years after project’s start-up – which even then had not adequately defined a few
    indicators

b. M&E Implementation:
  .
    Most outcome and intermediate indicators were easy to measure and their values were included in several ISRs.
    Data was mostly produced by Taluk Panchayats and GPs, and aggregated by the Decentralization Analysis Cell
    measuring fiscal flows, own revenues and performance in service delivery. An impact evaluation was carried out
    in 2013, as envisaged at the design stage and provided useful information on attribution of improvements in
    service delivery in particular.

c. M&E Utilization:

    Data gathered through the M&E framework were used to monitor progress. The Bank used supervision missions
    and interviews to fill any gap and properly monitor progress.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    The project was classified as environmental category B. The project required an environmental assessment and
    an environmental review carried out by the Bank in 2013 found that the works carried out under the project did
    not have any negative environmental impact. However, the implementation of the Environmental Management
    Framework was weak due to lack of awareness among GP officials, as well as limited training and mentoring.
    The project also triggered OP 4.20 on Indigenous People, as the project was active in areas that contain tribal
    groups. To address the latter, the project design ensured that indigenous peoples affected had a voice in project
    design and implementation by facilitating their participation and inclusion in Gram Sabhas.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    While there was no significant fiduciary issue during the project’s implementation that could be identified through
    the documents reviewed by IEG, the fiduciary assurance mechanisms up to Mid-Term review were unsatisfactory
    as annual external audits did not cover the entire GP account but only GP block grant accounts, and there was
    no incentive for transparency. These pitfalls were addressed during the Mid-Term Review that extended audits
    to the entire GP account and made their publication a pre-condition for accessing project’s block grants.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
    The Project contributed to the roll-out of, and capacity building for, a financial management software –
    ‘Panchatantra’.


d. Other:




12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately
                                Satisfactory                Satisfactory
        Borrower Performance : Moderately                   Moderately
                                Satisfactory                Satisfactory
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    There are four main lessons that can be drawn from the experience of this project:

        Political commitment is key in a project that aims at supporting decentralization , where some degree of
    resistance from central authorities is to be expected.
     The combination of capacity building and block grants can provide powerful support for meaningful
    decentralization provided the focus is on all 3 F’s (i.e., functions, funds and functionaries) as noted in India’s
    73rd Constitutional Amendment providing for formal processes of decentralized governance by empowerment
    of the Panchayat Raj Institutions.
     Monitoring & Evaluation systems are key for success , as decentralization programs by definition multiply
    the number of administrative units involved in implementation. M&E systems must include well-defined and
    easy to measure indicators and the ability to access them in real-time to inform project management.
     Capacity building gains can be easily reversed if they are not protracted over time , and there should be a
    stronger focus on longer -term efforts and incentives for participation . Unconditional grants are key in this
    respect, as their importance underpins meaningful participation (e.g., if grants whose destination can be
    determined by village or ward meetings are minor, there is no reason to take part in such meetings).


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No

Why?
         The project was a significant attempt to support decentralization in India and might lead to a follow-on
         operation. Its lessons might be significant for Bank activities in the region and worldwide.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR was candid and provided useful information to assess project performance. It also presented relevant
    data in a clear and effective manner.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
