      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      PFM MODERNIZATION (APL#1) (P099840)



                                                                                                                 Report Number : ICRR0020095


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                              Project Name
 P099840                                                 PFM MODERNIZATION (APL#1)

 Country                                                 Practice Area(Lead)
 Tajikistan                                              Governance



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                      Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-H4630,TF-92396,TF-96083                           31-Aug-2014                                                              13,111,800.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  14-May-2009                                           31-Mar-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                    Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                              5,000,000.00                                                  5,669,706.50

  Revised Commitment                                               4,876,896.18                                                  5,363,476.12

  Actual                                                           4,960,989.87                                                  5,363,476.12




 Sector(s)
 Central government administration(100%)

 Theme(s)
 Public expenditure, financial management and procurement(70%):Administrative and civil service reform(30%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator              Group
 Judyth L. Twigg                     Robert Mark Lacey                   Lourdes N. Pagaran                  IEGEC (Unit 1)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    According to the Financing Agreement (p. 5) and Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 7), the project's objectives were: "(a) to establish
    basic processes for efficient and transparent management of public expenditures; and (b) to develop adequate institutional capacity to
    support the implementation and sustained functioning of an automated financial management information system."

    This project was designed as the first phase of a two-phase Adaptable Program Loan (Grant) (APL) supporting the government's Public
    Financial Management Strategy for 2009-2018 (PAD, p. 4), whose objectives are: improving the quality of macroeconomic and fiscal
    forecasting; aligning borrowing with a debt management strategy, better managing fiscal risks, integrating investment and recurrent
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          PFM MODERNIZATION (APL#1) (P099840)



     budgeting and aligning it with sector policy planning, introducing integrated Budget Classification (with the administrative segment) and Chart
     of Accounts, and improving adherence to the public procurement law. APL-2 was to build on the results of this project to support full
     automation of public financial management processes.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     The project contained three components:

     1. Building capacity for public financial management (appraisal, US$ 4.18 million [US$ 0.96 million from IDA grant, US$ 2.25 million from
     MDTF, and US$ 0.97 million from PHRD grant]; actual US$ 3.8 million). This component was to enable the Ministry of Finance (MoF) to
     manage, design, implement, and monitor reforms through development of institutional, managerial, and technical capacity. It was to help
     establish a reliable training capacity in the Financial College under the MoF to support skills development country-wide. This component
     was also to support project management and fiduciary responsibilities, including project audit.

     2. Streamlining core budget management procedures (appraisal, US$ 3.95 million [US$ 0.73 million from IDA grant, and US$ 3.22 million
     from MDTF]; actual US$ 3.47 million). This component was to provide technical assistance to the MoF to implement new methodologies
     and tools to improve the overall budget process and upgrade existing information systems. It was to focus on support for improvement of
     budget planning and preparation, implementation of an integrated chart of accounts and improved budget classification system,
     improvement of procedures for budget execution though the treasury system, redesign of existing information systems, and systematic
     revision of legislation regulating public financial management (PFM) areas.

     3. Preparation for automation of core PFM operations (appraisal, US$ 4.67 million [US$ 3.31 million from IDA grant, US$ 0.03 million from
     MDTF, and US$ 1.33 million from the Government]; actual US$ 4.0 million). This component was to help MoF improve its readiness for
     the automation of core PFM operations, through provision of advisory support to the new MoF Center for Support of Inter-Budgetary
     Financial Operations (IT Center), training of staff and specialists, and incremental modernization of MoF's information technology (IT)
     infrastructure at the central level and at local treasury offices (LTOs). Support was also to be provided for a baseline assessment of the
     existing information and communication technology (ICT) infrastructure to support e-Government initiatives. A new financial management
     information system (FMIS) was to be implemented under the second phase of the APL, completing a modern public expenditure
     management platform for all central and local treasury offices.

     The triggers for APL-2 were: successful pilot testing of the new integrated budget classification and chart of accounts; adequate
     institutional capacity to ensure sustainable operation of FMIS solutions; identification of legal and institutional changes needed to
     implement the FMIS and a realistic timetable for making those changes; and contractual arrangements with a network service provider for
     the establishment of a country-wide FMIS telecommunication network. It was expected that these triggers would be met by 2012.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project Cost: Total estimated project costs were US$ 13.11 million. Actual total costs were US$ 11.27 million. According to the project
     team, the difference was due to exchange rate fluctuations plus savings from adapting a key information technology system from Turkey
     at no charge rather than purchasing an off-the-shelf system as originally planned.

     Financing: The project was to be financed by an IBRD loan in the amount of US$ 5.0 million. Additional financing was to come from a
     Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MTDF) in the amount of US$ 5.81 million (European Commission, US$ 2.36 million; UK Department for
     International Development [DfID], US$ 3.45 million), and a Japan Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund grant (US$
     0.97 million). The planned amount of the MDTF included a fee of US$ 0.305 million levied for administration of trust funds, making total
     foreign net financing US$ 11.475 million. Actual total project financing was US$ 11.27 million: US$ 4.96 million from IBRD, US$ 4.58
     million from the MTDF, US$ 0.78 million from the PHRD, and US$ 0.95 million from the Recipient.

     At preparation, it was anticipated that the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO) would provide parallel support in the
     amount of US$2 million for implementation and scaling up of public sector accounting reforms (PAD, p. 5). In the event, some activities
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PFM MODERNIZATION (APL#1) (P099840)



    related to accounting reform (accounting strategy and Chart of Account) were financed directly by the project, and SECO financed a
    separate project implementing public sector accounting standards (ICR, p. 9).

    Recipient contribution: The expected Recipient contribution was US$ 1.33 million. The government actually contributed US$ 0.95
    million. According to the project team, this difference was due to lower-than-expected construction costs for a new government-
    financed Information Technology Center.

    Dates: On June 16, 2014, the project's closing date was extended from August 31, 2014 to March 31, 2015 to allow for procurement and
    installation of Data Center equipment, institutionalization of the Training Center, and institutionalization of the IT Center.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   The project's objectives were Highly relevant to Bank and government strategy and to country conditions at approval and validation.
   The objectives are highly relevant to the World Bank Group's 2015-2018 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), which highlights public financial
   management (PFM) reform as a cross-cutting theme, with particular emphasis on budget transparency and accountability. The objectives are
   equally relevant to the CPS at appraisal (2006-2009), which contained a cross-cutting objective to improve governance and state capacity,
   with specific plans to provide technical assistance to public sector reforms and treasury operations. Similarly, the country's 2009-2018 Public
   Financial Management Reform Strategy prioritizes medium-term budget planning, automation of PFM, and developing overall PFM capacities.
   The Government's 2006 Public Administration Reform Strategy called for: closer coordination between the budget and economic policy;
   greater coherence in PFM responsibilities, specifically linking investment planning with the budget process and providing MoF with overall
   responsibility for budget processes; better procedures for financial decision making; reformed internal control and audit systems; greater
   effectiveness of public procurement; and optimized revenue allocation mechanisms among levels of government. The objectives were also
   highly relevant to country conditions at appraisal. Diagnostic reports had identified key PFM challenges: fragmentation of the budget process,
   deviations between planned and implemented budgets (in both amount and composition), lack of proper linkage between the commitment
   tracking and control systems and the decentralized procurement system, incomplete Treasury reforms, lack of an administrative segment in
   the budget classification, lack of a Chart of Accounts that would be integrated with the budget classification, and inadequate public access to
   fiscal information. These challenges rippled to the subnational level, resulting in weak commitment controls; inaccurate, untimely, and paper-
   based budget reporting; and inadequate asset management (ICR, p. 5).




   Rating
   High


b. Relevance of Design

   The project's planned activities were logically and plausibly tied to achievement of intended outcomes. Planned technical assistance was
   intended to support the basic processes for more efficient and effective PFM, and to develop the MoF staff skills and organizational structure
   that were a prerequisite for implementation of an automated FMIS. Project design took into account the need for proper sequencing of PFM
   reforms -- specifically, undertaking reforms related to budget processes, treasury operations, accounting, and reporting before attempting
   automation -- acknowledging MoF's low absorption capacity and complementary interventions being financed by other donors. The
   implementation of complex IT systems for PFM was therefore left to the second phase of the APL. Project design accounted for the potential
   negative externality of reduced government commitment by concentrating on core PFM areas, building and sustaining support through early,
   focused success.




   Rating
   Substantial
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                          Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               PFM MODERNIZATION (APL#1) (P099840)



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Establish basic processes for efficient management of public expenditures

    Rationale
    Outputs:
    A Law on Public Finance was adopted in 2011, laying the foundations for an improved budget process. A large number of instructions
    related to budget preparation and execution were adopted at the central and local levels.

    A public sector accounting reform strategy was developed and approved, as was a new budget classification in line with the IMF's
    Government Finance Statistics Manual 2001 (and a manual for its use). MoF adopted the new budget classification in 2012.
    A unified Chart of Accounts, integrated with the budget classification and supporting the International Public Sector Accounting Standards,
    was also approved.

    A strategic plan was prepared for the Treasury Department. Its structure was adapted through the creation of a central level Treasury
    Single Account (TSA), which now covers all central-level budget transactions. The Turkish Ministry of Finance provided, free of charge,
    use of the Turkish SGN NET system, a relatively simple IT system with basic PFM functionality.

    Outcomes:

    The Budget Circulars for 2014-2016 and 2015-2017 are based on new business processes, reflecting the Medium-Term Expenditure
    Framework and macro-fiscal forecasts.

    The new budget classification was implemented with the 2014 budget. The unified Chart of Accounts has been applied from 2014.

    The budget is now executed using the automated budget execution module of the Tajikistan FMIS.

    On the 2007 and 2012 Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) Assessments, Tajikistan improved from D to B on
    "Classification of the Budget," from B to B+ on "Timeliness and Regularity of Accounts Reconciliation," and from D+ to C+ on "Quality and
    Timeliness of Annual Financial Statements." The ICR (p. 15) indicates that 2015 results are expected to be "significantly higher."




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Establish basic processes for transparent management of public expenditures

    Rationale
    Outputs, in addition to those listed above:

    Budget submissions to the Parliament, the Budget Law and amendments, and budget execution reports are now published regularly on the
    MoF website.

    Outcomes:

    On the 2007 to 2012 PEFA Assessments, Tajikistan improved from D to C on "Public Access to Key Fiscal Information." Tajikistan's score
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               PFM MODERNIZATION (APL#1) (P099840)



    on the Open Budget Index (from the International Budget Partnership's Open Budget Survey) improved from 17 in 2012 to 25 in 2015 (on a
    scale of 0 to 100).




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 3

    Objective
     Develop adequate institutional capacity to support the implementation of an automated FMIS

    Rationale
    Outputs:

    A PFM Council was established, with a Secretariat headed by a Deputy Minister. More than 9,000 staff from the MoF, line ministries, and
    agencies, representing 90% of all personnel working on PFM issues in the country, were trained. This training took place at an MoF
    Training Center that received upgrades: redesign of physical infrastructure, development of specialized learning modules on new budget
    procedures, training of trainers, repair of existing facilities, installation of furniture/equipment, installation of an uninterrupted power supply,
    and development of a web site. A new MoF Human Resources Management department was created.

    In 2011, the MoF proposed adaptation of the free-of-charge Turkish system SGB.NET to satisfy PFM information system needs, rather than
    later purchase of a commercial off-the-shelf solution as originally planned. This process included a pre-implementation review of the
    system, development of additional modules for TSA sub-accounts and accounts payable, and a tentative plan to move to a commercial off-
    the-shelf product in the longer term. After an independent assessment, the Bank agreed to this plan. The project team confirmed that this
    was an appropriate decision based on Tajikistan's lack of readiness to implement an off-the-shelf system, as well as lessons learned
    from earlier challenges encountered with purchase of a commercial system in an analogous situation in the Kyrgyz Republic. Based on
    business needs, its was decided to implement three of the eight available SGB.NET modules.

    Outcomes:

    Three SGB.NET modules were fully implemented, based on defined MoF business needs: Medium-Term Budgetary Framework; Budget
    Preparation and Execution; and Access Control. These systems were on-line at project closing and connected to the banking system of
    the country. As a result, the MoF became a full participant in the country's banking system. A 2014 assessment confirmed that
    SGB.NET had been an acceptable alternative to a commercial off-the-shelf system, with only two modules (cash management/planning
    and accounts payable) requiring further development in the medium to longer term.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 4

    Objective
     Develop adequate institutional capacity to support the sustained functioning of an automated FMIS

    Rationale
    Outputs listed above led to the following outcomes:
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               PFM MODERNIZATION (APL#1) (P099840)



    An IT Center was established in 2012, first to support Treasury reforms, and later to facilitate the customization of the Turkish SGB NET
    and its implementation. Twelve IT specialists were hired at the central level, most of whom were retained at the IT Center after project
    completion, and seventeen specialists were hired and trained to maintain systems at the local level. Competitive salaries are being paid in
    order to retain these staff. A modern Data Processing Center was constructed and equipped and is now fully functional at MoF.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 5

    Objective
     Overall APL objective: improving the quality of macroeconomic and fiscal forecasting; aligning borrowing with a debt management strategy,
     better managing fiscal risks, integrating investment and recurrent budgeting and aligning it with sector policy planning, introducing
     integrated Budget Classification (with the administrative segment) and Chart of Accounts, and improving adherence to the public
     procurement law

    Rationale
    This project, the first phase of the two-phase APL, laid the appropriate foundations for the second stage. By focusing on relatively narrow
    reforms related to budget formation/execution, reengineering of business processes, MoF restructuring, and capacity building, it laid the
    foundation for second-phase emphasis on development of the FMIS and further automation of PFM processes. These achievements
    represent appropriate progress toward achievement of the broad APL objectives. Based on fulfillment of the triggers set out under this
    project, the Bank approved the second phase of the APL on June 1, 2015 with an objective "to improve the effectiveness, control, and
    accountability of public expenditure of the Republic of Tajikistan."




    Rating
    Not Rated/Not Applicable



   5. Efficiency

    The PAD's economic and financial discussion (p. 84) is entirely qualitative. It states that the project's return on investment would accrue from
    better performing public institutions' use of financial and human resources in a more effective, accurate, transparent, and accountable
    manner, arguing that these benefits are difficult to quantify.

    The ICR (p. 36) finds a 41% return on investment under what the ICR claims are conservative assumptions, though those assumptions and
    the logic underlying the calculations are not explained in detail. Using a discount rate of 12%, the net present value of economic benefits is
    found to be US$ 5.2 million. The high rate of return results from country-wide rollout of the TSA and FMIS, eliminating transaction fee
    payments, earning interest on idle cash balances, and removing the need for 90% of the country's budget organizations to buy separate
    accounting software. The estimated savings from elimination of transaction fees and earning interest on idle cash balances were US$ 1.2
    million in 2015 (ICR, p. 18).

    Adaptation of the free-of-charge Turkish SGB NET system to fit MoF needs, rather than purchasing a commercially available off-the-shelf
    system, saved considerable project resources. There were delays, however, related to the feasibility assessment for this system, slowing
    down overall implementation and disbursement; once the decision was made to proceed with its purchase, implementation proceeded at an
    appropriate pace.




  Efficiency Rating
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         PFM MODERNIZATION (APL#1) (P099840)



Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                            0
 Appraisal                                                                0
                                                                                                            Not Applicable

                                                                                                            100.00
 ICR Estimate                                                            41.00
                                                                                                            Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The project's objectives were highly relevant to country conditions, government strategy, and Bank strategy. Its design was substantially
relevant, with planned activities plausibly and logically connected to intended outcomes, and exogenous factors taken into account. All four
objectives were substantially achieved, with targets met for key indicators, while other data from outside the formal results framework also
indicated substantial progress. Efficiency is rated substantial, with strong returns on investment and cost savings realized through adaptation of
a free-of-charge FMIS. Taken together, these ratings are indicative of minor shortcomings and therefore a Satisfactory outcome rating.




a.     Outcome Rating
       Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

The Government and other key stakeholders continue to demonstrate strong commitment to, and ownership of, the new processes and systems,
including through discussions of the new PFM Council. The institutional changes supported by the project -- the transition from paper-based
systems to a modern accounting and budgeting system run through a digital FMIS, institutional restructuring of the MoF and the Treasury, and
creation of a modern Data Center linking local finance departments/treasuries -- are likely to be sustained. MoF and line agency technical
capacity has significantly improved. The follow-on operation (APL 2) is intended to support extending and deepening the reform process. The
ICR indicates that key leadership, managerial, and technical skill would be lost if the project coordinator, who now heads the IT Center, were to
depart, but the project team explained that a backup person has now been hired to alleviate that risk.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Negligible


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     During preparation, with support from a Bank-financed Public Sector Reform Project, the MoF conducted an organizational assessment of its
     operations and developed a PFM Strategy for 2009-2018 and an Action Plan for 2009-2011, as well as a concept for an automated FMIS.
     Together with analytical reports developed by the Bank and the International Monetary Fund, these actions provided a rich foundation for the
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PFM MODERNIZATION (APL#1) (P099840)



   project, stressing the inclusion of capacity building as an integral part of all reform initiatives. Lessons were also learned from an IEG review
   of the previous Institution Building Technical Assistance 2 project, which closed in 2005: the importance of proper sequencing of reforms,
   maintaining Government commitment and ownership, maintaining an effective governance structure, and promoting PRM reforms through
   budget support operations of the Bank and other donors. Risk assessment was thorough at appraisal, with risks identified related to client
   commitment to the reform agenda, weak implementation capacity, weak donor coordination, and corruption. Mitigation measures were
   appropriate, focused on building MoF ownership of and integration into the project, convening a Donor Coordination Council, and
   strengthening the capacity of the Administrative and Procurement Support Team (APST) under the MoF. The design and sequencing of a
   two-stage APL was appropriate, although project design might have anticipated the availability of free-of-charge FMIS systems developed by
   other countries/donors. In addition, the results framework would have benefited from the use of quantitative in addition to qualitative
   indicators (see Section 10). Overall, however, these were minor shortcomings.



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   There was close collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, and with other donors, especially after the Task Team Leader moved to the Bank's
   local office in Dushanbe. The Bank team invested appropriately in upgrading procurement and financial management capacity at the
   implementing agency. The decisions to adopt SGB.NET as an interim FMIS solution exhibited appropriate flexibility in implementation.
   Implementation Status Report ratings were realistic and helped the project to take corrective action where needed. The Bank team
   successfully resisted pressure from other donors to adopt goals and timetables that were too ambitious, given Tajikistan's political context and
   institutional capacity (ICR, p. 21).



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   There was strong commitment and support from Government, particularly the MoF, throughout preparation and implementation. To ensure
   effective management and monitoring of PFM reforms, the President of the country issued a decree establishing a Public Financial
   Management Council, chaired by the Minister of Finance and supported by the MoF Secretariat. Implementation challenges were regularly
   address through this Council. The MoF showed initiative by proposing adoption of the Turkish FMIS and waiting for the results of an
   independent assessment before proceeding along those lines. Changes in the top management of the MoF, including the Minister,
   occurred during the last year of implementation, but the new Minister maintained commitment to the project and took key steps to ensure
   its sustainability.

   However, there were moderate shortcomings. There were delays in fulfilling the project's effectiveness conditions due to difficulties
   approving a Staff Retention Plan. There were additional delays toward the end of the project period in adopting the Human Resources
   Management strategy, implementing the Unified Chart of Account, and reorganizing the MoF structure.



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   M&E and fiduciary responsibilities were fulfilled by the Administrative and Procurement Support Team (APST) within the MoF. This team
   delivered solid implementation support (ICR, p. 21). After minor early issues with financial management and procurement prior to the 2012
   mid-term review, shortcomings were addressed and performance rated fully Satisfactory in the Bank's supervision reports. Procurement
   plans were regularly followed and updated. The APST was selected to implement the next phase of the operation, indicating satisfaction
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PFM MODERNIZATION (APL#1) (P099840)



   with the quality of its work. Audits were on time and unqualified (ICR, p. 12).



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The PAD indicated that progress would be monitored through the project's formal results framework and through bi-annual surveys of MoF staff
   and budget organizations. It also carefully specifies institutional responsibility for monitoring activities, and analyzes the division of labor for
   PFM reform and monitoring among donors. Performance indicators were adequate for measuring progress, though they were entirely
   qualitative. The mid-term review noted that it would have been possible and appropriate to include quantitative measures, such as indicators
   from the Open Budget Index and various elements of the Treasury system (number of transactions per annum, system users, and connections,
   and/or budgetary savings due to better liquidity management).




b. M&E Implementation
   The Bank team monitored implementation and shared findings from semi-annual supervision missions with other donors. A mid-term review
   was conducted in September 2012 (nine months later than originally planned); the ICR provides contradictory information (Executive
   Summary, p. 1, versus paragraph 27, p. 11) about whether quantitative indicators added to follow the mid-term review's recommendation.
   The APST updated monitoring tables on a monthly basis. Based on these tables, quarterly progress reports were prepared by Component
   Leaders, and an Annual Project Report was prepared in the first quarter of each fiscal year. The Annual Report provided information on
   formal project indicators and was endorsed by the PFM Council. The ICR does not state whether the planned bi-annual surveys took place;
   the project team later added that these surveys were carried our by the Voice and Accountability Project, financed by the UK Department for
   International Development.




c. M&E Utilization
   The ICR does not provide information on the use of M&E data and analysis to inform project implementation and/or policy.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   No safeguard policies were triggered by the project, which was environmental category C. The PAD (p. 23) noted that the project would
   focus mainly on the provision of technical assistance, with works limited to refurbishments of training facilities. No negative environmental
   impact was anticipated. The ICR (p. 12) states only that the project did not trigger any social or environmental safeguards.
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             PFM MODERNIZATION (APL#1) (P099840)



b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial management (FM): A Bank assessment in May 2012 found several shortcomings related to lack of full automation, lack of tag
   numbers for fixed assets, and incorrect calculation of exchange rates. The Bank and APST promptly implemented measures to strengthen FM
   capacity, bringing project FM ratings up to Satisfactory for the remainder of the project's lifetime. Quarterly financial reports for the project were
   acceptable and on time. Annual audit reports were on time and unqualified (ICR, p. 12).

   Procurement: The project supported procurement capacity building for the APST, including sending the project's procurement specialist for
   training in Italy. The project procurement plan was kept updated and approved by the Bank, and procurement files were complete and in good
   order (ICR, p. 12). However, there were delays in the procurement of several contracts early in the project period; after the mid-term review in
   2012, performance improved, with goods and services delivered in full and on time. There were no reported cases of misprocurement.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None reported.




d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                 Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                 Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                        ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Negligible                         Negligible                          ---
Bank Performance                          Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                        ---
                                                                                                                 Delays in fulfilling effectiveness
Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory                       Moderately Satisfactory             conditions and in implementing
                                                                                                                 some activities.
Quality of ICR                                                               Substantial                         ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR (pp. 21-22) offers valuable lessons, including:

Active integration of relevant ministerial management structures in preparation and implementation ensures that commitment is sustained and
work plans are realistic. In this case, a wide array of key MoF officials -- two Ministers of Finance, Deputy Ministers, department heads,
Treasury managers, program coordinators, and APST staff -- held key ownership and decision authority throughout. However, more active
engagement at even higher levels (in this case, the Presidential Administration) would have avoided some delays.

Flexibility during implementation can enhance achievement of desired outcomes. In this case, although the adoption of the Turkish SGB.ET
FMIS system was not foreseen during preparation, the willingness of the MoF to consider it as an alternative, the Bank team's flexibility in putting
the question on the agenda, and all parties' acceptance of the results of an independent assessment led to the establishment of a "reasonably
robust" FMIS quickly and at low cost (ICR, p. 22).
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        PFM MODERNIZATION (APL#1) (P099840)




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR contains a well-crafted Executive Summary. Its narrative is clear and concise, and it follows established guidelines. It draws
information from a wide array of sources, including several outside the project's formal results framework, to assess achievement of objectives.
The ICR is appropriately critical of shortcomings in the results framework, and its assessment of the project's decision to adapt the
Turkish SGB.NET FMIS is careful and balanced. The lessons offered are insightful and should prove useful to future financial management
reform projects in countries with limited capacity. The economic and financial analysis, however, contains neither a full explanation and
justification of its assumptions nor adequate detail on the calculation of benefits; instead, it provides only results in tabular form. In addition, the
ICR provides contradictory information about addition of quantitative indicators to the project's results framework following the mid-term review.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
