                                                 INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET
                                                       RESTRUCTURING STAGE
                                          Note: This ISDS will be considered effective only upon approval of the project restructuring
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                                 Report No.: ISDSR9328
                         Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 08-Jul-2014
                         Date ISDS Approved/Disclosed: 29-Oct-2014
                         I. BASIC INFORMATION
                            1. Basic Project Data

                            Country:            Congo, Democratic Republic                                         P115318
                                                                               Project ID:
                                                of
                            Project Name:       DRC Street Children Project (P115318)
                            Task Team       Maurizia Tovo
                            Leader:
                            Estimated       19-Mar-2010                                      Estimated   01-Jun-2010
                            Appraisal Date:                                                  Board Date:
                            Managing Unit: GSPDR                                             Lending     Specific Investment Loan
                                                                                             Instrument:
                            Sector:             Other social services (71%), Public administration- Other social services (13%),
                                                Primary education (8%), General information and com munications sector (8%)
                            Theme:              Social safety nets (35%), Participation and civic engagement (23%), Gender
                                                (21%), Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (13%), Edu cation for all (8%)
                            Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency
                            Recovery) or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and                                                           No
Public Disclosure Copy




                            Emergencies)?
                            Financing (in USD Million)
                            Total Project Cost:        10.00           Total Bank Financing:                                        10.00
                            Financing Gap:              0.00
                                Financing Source                                                                                   Amount
                              BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                                     0.00
                              IDA Grant                                                                                             10.00
                              Total                                                                                                 10.00
                            Environmental C - Not Required
                            Category:
                            Is this a           No
                            Repeater
                            project?

                            2. Current Project Development Objectives
                           The proposed development objective is to provide improved coverage and quality of services for


                                                                                  Page 1 of 4
                         street children, in particular those targeting street girls focus                               ing on
                         family- and socio-economic reintegration.
                         Proposed New PDO (from Restructuring Paper)
Public Disclosure Copy




                         The proposed development objective is to provide improved coverage and quality of services for
                         street children, in particular those targeting street girls focus                         ing on
                         family- and socio-economic reintegration.
                          3. Project Description
                         The project will pilot approaches to prevent "streetism", protect street children and reintegrate them
                         into their families and communities. The proposed restructuring regards the transfer of fiduciary
                         responsibilities from FSDRC to the PIU; the restructuring is not expected to add or change project
                         components, or induce adverse social or environmental impacts. The project has the following three
                         components:

                          Component A: Assistance. Improve coverage and quality of basic services adapted to the special
                         circumstances of street girls ($2.5 million). This component has short-term objectives (immediate
                         protection and survival) as well as more medium-term objectives (family reintegration, obtaining an
                         education certificate). Services will include shelter, food, health care education, skills training, and
                         family reintegration.

                          Component B: Prevention. Strengthen families and communities to diminish the flow of children
                         arriving in the streets ($1 million). This component builds on the experiences in community-based
                         prevention activities both in DRC and internationally. The approach includes (i) community
                         awareness campaigns and other IEC activities on topics such as child rights and protection, parental
                         responsibility, HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention, human rights, and the challenges of witchcraft
                         and (ii) community mobilization including organization and support of child protection committees
                         and of volunteer family helpers.
Public Disclosure Copy




                          Component C: Capacity building, coordination and management ($1.5 million). This component
                         will strengthen MINAS' capacity to develop norms and standards for activities targeting street
                         children, coordinate the interventions of different actors, and monitor and evaluate them. When
                         relevant, capacity building will include staff of other ministries and service providers (e.g., NGOs) as
                         well. A small PIU will also be financed to take advantage of existing capacity to implement Bank-
                         finance projects and work through                NGOs.
                          4. Project location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
                         analysis (if known)
                         Kinshasa, DRC

                          5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
                         Antoine V. Lema (GSURR)
                         Abdoulaye Gadiere (GENDR)

                          6. Safeguard Policies                 Triggered? Explanation (Optional)
                          Environmental Assessment OP/          No
                          BP 4.01




                                                                         Page 2 of 4
                            Natural Habitats OP/BP 4.04       No
Public Disclosure Copy




                            Forests OP/BP 4.36                No

                            Pest Management OP 4.09           No

                            Physical Cultural Resources OP/   No
                            BP 4.11
                            Indigenous Peoples OP/BP 4.10     No

                            Involuntary Resettlement OP/BP    No
                            4.12
                            Safety of Dams OP/BP 4.37         No

                            Projects on International        No
                            Waterways OP/BP 7.50
                            Projects in Disputed Areas OP/BP No
                            7.60

                         II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
                             A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
                            1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the Restructured project.
                              Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
                                This project has been and remains category C. Project investments are not expected to induce
                              adverse environmental or social impacts that will trigger safeguards policies.
Public Disclosure Copy




                            2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future activities
                              in the project area:
                                N/A (see above)
                            3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize adverse
                              impacts.
                                N/A (see above)
                            4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide an
                              assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
                                N/A (see above)
                            5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure
                              on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
                                This project will remain category C. No safeguards instruments required.
                           B. Disclosure Requirements
                            If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources policies, the
                            respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental Assessment/
                            Audit/or EMP.
                            If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why:



                                                                      Page 3 of 4
                            Project is of category C. No Safeguard instruments have been prepared.
                           C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level
Public Disclosure Copy




                            The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
                             Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the     Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             World Bank's Infoshop?
                             Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public   Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             place in a form and language that are understandable and
                             accessible to project-affected groups and local NGOs?
                            All Safeguard Policies
                             Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional      Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             responsibilities been prepared for the implementation of
                             measures related to safeguard policies?
                             Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included   Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             in the project cost?
                             Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project        Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             include the monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures
                             related to safeguard policies?
                             Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed       Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             with the borrower and the same been adequately reflected in
                             the project legal documents?

                         III. APPROVALS
                            Task Team Leader: Maurizia Tovo
                            Approved By
                            Regional Safeguards Name: Johanna van Tilburg (RSA)                      Date: 08-Jul-2014
Public Disclosure Copy




                            Coordinator:
                            Practice Manager/   Name:                                                Date:
                            Manager:




                                                                       Page 4 of 4
