                                           Document of
                                          The World Bank



                                       Report No: ICR00003749



                IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IDA-H5780)



                                              ON A

                      GRANT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.6 MILLION
                           (US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)



                                             TO THE

                         THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO

                                              FOR A

                                STREET CHILDREN PROJECT




                                         February 29, 2016




Social Protection and Labor Practice
Africa
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
            (Exchange Rate Effective at Project Closing, August 31, 2015)

                          Currency Unit = Congolese Franc
                                 CDF 928 = US$1


                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 – December 31


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

DEP      Unit for Research and Planning (Direction d ’Etudes et de Planification)
DISPE    Unit for Social Interventions for Child Protection (Direction des
         Interventions Sociales pour la Protection de l’Enfant)
DRC      Democratic Republic of Congo
FBO      Faith-based Organization
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA      International Development Association
MDG      Millennium Development Goal
MINAS    Ministry of Social Affairs, Humanitarian Action, and National Solidarity
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MoU      Memorandum of Understanding
NGO      Nongovernmental Organization
OVC      Orphans and Vulnerable Children
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
UNICEF   United Nations Children’s Fund
USAID    U.S. Agency for International Development




          Senior Global Practice Director:   Xiaoqing Yu
                        Practice Manager:    Stefano Paternostro
                    Project Team Leader:     Maurizia Tovo
                       ICR Team Leader:      Fanta Touré
                                       DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
                                            Street Children Project


                                                                CONTENTS



Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

1.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ....................................................... 1 
2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...................................................... 5 
3.  Assessment of Outcomes .................................................................................................. 12 
4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ................................................................. 17 
5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................. 17 
6.  Lessons Learned................................................................................................................ 20 
7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners................... 21 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .................................................................................... 23 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component............................................................................................ 24 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ........................................................................... 27 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes....................... 28 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ..................................................................................... 29 
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............................... 34 
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................................ 36 
MAP ........................................................................................................................................ 38 
DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                       Congo, Democratic                               DRC Street Children
Country:                                        Project Name:
                       Republic of                                     Project
Project ID:            P115318                  L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-H5780
ICR Date:              02/10/2016               ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       DEMOCRATIC
                       Specific Investment
Lending Instrument:                             Borrower:              REPUBLIC OF
                       Loan
                                                                       CONGO
Original Total
                     XDR 6.60 million           Disbursed Amount:      XDR 6.35 million
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      XDR 6.60 million
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
B. Key Dates
                                                                             Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process        Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/08/2009     Effectiveness:
Appraisal:             03/19/2010     Restructuring(s):                         08/13/2014
Approval:              06/01/2010     Midterm Review:        01/06/2014         02/21/2014
                                      Closing:               08/31/2015         08/31/2015
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
 Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
 Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
 Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                    Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
                                Indicators                                      Rating
      Performance                                      (if any)
Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry     None


                                                i
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                         Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General information and communications sector                   8                 5
Other social services                                          71                67
Primary education                                              8                 4
Public administration - Other social services                  13                24

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                              8                  4
Gender                                                         21                17
Participation and civic engagement                             23                28
Social Protection and Labor Policy & Systems                   13                 9
Social Safety Nets/Social Assistance & Social Care
                                                               35                42
Services
E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                    Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye        Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly
Practice
                           Stefano Paternostro            Lynne D. Sherburne-Benz
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Maurizia Tovo                   Anne Mossige
ICR Team Leader:           Fanta Toure                                    –
ICR Primary Author:        Catherine A. Gibbons                           –

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective is to improve the delivery mechanisms of prevention and support
services for street children, primarily in Kinshasa.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable.




                                            ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                         Original Target        Formally         Actual Value
                                           Values (from         Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval           Target          Completion or
                                            documents)           Values          Target Years
Indicator 1:    Child Protection Committees that are active (percent)
Value
Quantitative or             50%                    75%                –                 100
Qualitative)
Date achieved           06/01/2010             02/28/2011             –             08/31/2015
Comments
                Overachieved. All 127 child protection committees were operational at project
(including %
                completion.
achievement)
                Target households who recall correctly key messages about children rights from
Indicator 2:
                the campaigns financed under the project (percent)
Value
Quantitative or Not applicable                      70                –                  87
Qualitative)
Date achieved           06/01/2010             02/28/2011             –             08/31/2015
Comments
(including % Overachieved.
achievement)
                Children at risk provided with education or remedial education opportunities
Indicator 3:
                financed under the project (number per year, disaggregated by sex)
Value
Quantitative or              0                    2,500               –          5,529 (40% girls)
Qualitative)
Date achieved           06/01/2010             02/28/2011             –             08/31/2015
Comments
(including % Overachieved
achievement)
                Street children offered access to comprehensive support services (number,
Indicator 4:
                disaggregated by sex)
Value
Quantitative or            1,013                  5,500               –         10,057 (41% girls)
Qualitative)
Date achieved           06/01/2010             02/28/2011             –             08/31/2015
                Overachieved. This includes children benefiting from temporary day or night
Comments
                shelter and long-term shelter. In general, children benefiting from shelter are
(including %
                provided with at least three services (that is, comprehensive support), but there is
achievement)
                a risk of over
                Street children having restored relationships with their families (number,
Indicator 5:
                disaggregated by sex)
Value                       253                    800                –          5,335 (48% girls)


                                                iii
Quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved           06/01/2010             02/28/2011             –           08/31/2015
Comments
                Overachieved. Of those children who reestablished relations with their family,
(including %
                4,099 returned to live with the biological family, a 77% success rate.
achievement)
                Direct project beneficiaries (number) - percentage female (CORE), broken down
                by children supported per type of services; community leaders and authorities
Indicator 6:
                sensitized; nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and government workers
                trained
                                           Direct project
                                                                             Direct project
                                           beneficiaries:
                                                                             beneficiaries:
                                           9,450;
                Direct project                                               17,293;
                                           Number of
                beneficiaries: 0;                                            Number of children
                                           children assisted:
                Number of children                                           assisted: 15,586
Value                                      8,000;
                assisted: 0;                                                 (41% girls);
Quantitative or                            Community                  –
                Community leaders and                                        Community leaders
Qualitative)                               leaders and
                authorities sensitized: 0;                                   and authorities
                                           authorities
                NGOs and government                                          sensitized: 1,204;
                                           sensitized: 800;
                workers trained: 0                                           Civil servants and
                                           Civil servants and
                                                                             NGO employees
                                           NGO employees
                                                                             trained: 503
                                           trained: 650
Date achieved           06/01/2010             02/28/2011             –           08/31/2015
Comments
(including % Overachieved
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval         Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values       Target Years
Indicator 1:      Radio broadcasts on child protection (number per year)
Value
(Quantitative                96                      600             –               596
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            06/01/2010            02/28/2011             –            08/31/2015
                  Achieved. Not reported under this indicator are an additional 586 TV and radio
Comments
                  transmissions of 8 documentaries and 12 spots on child protection developed by
(including %
                  Search for Common Ground, an international NGO, specialized in audiovisual
achievement)
                  communication.
Indicator 2:      Child protection committees established; or strengthened (number)
Value             Child protection         Child protection           –        Child protection


                                                iv
(Quantitative committees established: committees                                 committees
or Qualitative) 0;                           established: 72;                    established: 75;
                Child protection             Child protection                    Child protection
                committees strengthened: committees                              committees
                12                           strengthened: 62                    strengthened: 52
Date achieved            06/01/2010              02/28/2011                           08/31/2015
Comments
                Partially achieved. At the end of the project, there was one committee in each of
(including %
                the participating neighborhoods. No additional committees were needed.
achievement)
                Community events on children's rights and parental responsibility (for example,
Indicator 3:
                interactive theater) (number per year)
Value
(Quantitative                 50                     550                –                 488
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            06/01/2010              02/28/2011             –
Comments        Partially achieved. As with Indicator 2 above, the Project Implementation Unit
(incl. %        (PIU) misunderstood the cumulative target as 120, which was in fact the final
achievement) year target.
                Street children using at least one service offered by transit centers financed
Indicator 4:
                under the project (number, disaggregated by sex)
Value
(Quantitative                  0                    8,000               –         10,057 (41% girls)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            06/01/2010              02/28/2011             –             08/31/2015
                Overachieved. It is possible that there is some double counting in this result.
Comments
                However, the project did its best to minimize by giving each social worker
(including %
                responsibility for a cohort of children that they knew by name and increasing
achievement)
                coordination among centers.
                Street children benefiting from skills training courses; and formal and nonformal
Indicator 5:
                education (number per year, disaggregated by sex)
                                             Children                            Children benefiting
                                             benefiting from                     from skills training
                Children benefiting from skills training                         course: 1,660 (54%
Value           skills training              course: 6,741;                      girls);
(Quantitative course:1,741;                  Children                   –        Children benefiting
or Qualitative) formal and nonformal         benefiting from                     from formal and
                education: 1,784             formal and                          nonformal
                                             nonformal                           education: 6,294
                                             education: 6,784                    (46% girls)
Date achieved            06/01/2010              02/28/2011             –             08/31/2015
                Underachieved. This indicator is much lower than expected because the majority
Comments
                of street children who are in the shelters are under 15, which is the minimum age
(including %
                for a child to participate in vocational training (older street children are less
achievement)
                likely to was
Indicator 6: NGOs/faith-based organizations (FBOs) supported by the project achieving at


                                                  v
                least 90% of the agreed performance indicators (%)
Value
(Quantitative               n.a.                    70                 –               100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           06/01/2010             02/28/2011              –           08/31/2015
Comments
(including %     Overachieved
achievement)
                National standards for service delivery to street children developed and validated
Indicator 7:
                (Yes/No)
Value
(Quantitative               No                     Yes                 –              Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           06/01/2010             02/28/2011              –           08/31/2015
Comments
(including % Achieved
achievement)
                A national multisectoral coordination committee for the protection of orphans
Indicator 8:
                and vulnerable children (OVC) is established and operational
Value
(Quantitative               No                     Yes                 –              Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           06/01/2010             02/28/2011              –           08/31/2015
Comments
(including % Achieved
achievement)
                A database established and managed by the Unit for Social Interventions for
                Child Protection (Direction des Interventions Sociales pour la Protection de
                l’Enfant, DISPE) with the support of the Unit for Research and Planning
Indicator 9:
                (Direction d ’Etudes et de Planification, DEP) to monitor and coordinate
                ongoing children rights interventions as well as to capture the number of
                beneficiaries per category of service is established (Yes/No)
Value
(Quantitative               No                     Yes                 –              Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           06/01/2010             02/28/2011              –           08/31/2015
Comments
(including % Achieved
achievement)
                Annual evaluation of the effectiveness and costs of different prevention and
Indicator 10:
                support services (Yes/No)
Value
(Quantitative               No                     Yes                 –              Yes
or Qualitative)



                                                vi
Date achieved         06/01/2010          02/28/2011               –         08/31/2015
Comments
(including % Achieved
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                              Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                          IP             Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                          (US$, millions)
  1    04/13/2011    Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   0.60
  2    10/23/2011    Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   0.73
                     Moderately                 Moderately
  3    06/25/2012                                                              1.19
                     Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
  4    02/17/2013    Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory        2.28
  5    09/20/2013    Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory        4.15
  6    05/03/2014    Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   6.49
  7    11/19/2014    Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   7.83
  8    06/10/2015    Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   9.23


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in US$,
                                         millions
                                                     The government institution that
                                                     initially had responsibility for
                                                     the fiduciary management of
                                                     the project was no longer able
 08/13/2014       No      S       S         7.35
                                                     to play its role. Fiduciary
                                                     responsibilities were transferred
                                                     to the PIU, with the Ministry of
                                                     Social Affairs.




                                               vii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) Street Children Project was approved by the
World Bank Board of Executive Directors on June 1, 2010 and made effective on February 28,
2011. It closed on August 31, 2015 with satisfactory ratings, having exceeded all but one of its
outcome indicators. The project was restructured in August 2014 but received no extensions or
additional financing.

2.      At the time of project approval on June 1, 2010, the DRC was emerging from years of
conflict and political instability. Since 2007, the government had implemented policies geared
toward promoting good governance, consolidating peace, fostering macroeconomic stability and
growth, and improving access to basic social services. In the process, the economy had secured
important gains, and was growing at an average rate of 6.7 percent per year.

3.       The social situation, however, was extremely fragile. The DRC ranked 176 out of 182
countries in the 2009 Human Development Index and poverty was widespread. The national
statistics at the time indicated that about 70–80 percent of the population lived under the poverty
line in 2007. The global financial crisis and the food crisis of 2008 had further aggravated this
situation. In the Katanga Province alone, 300,000 workers had lost their jobs in the course of
these crises. Impoverishment, violence, human rights abuses, and large-scale internal
displacements resulting from the war had caused untold suffering and a deep deterioration of the
social fabric, overburdening or breaking up families and traditional social safety nets. Perhaps
the most heartrending manifestation of this social disruption was the growing number of street
children in the country’s urban centers.

4.      At the time of project design, there were an estimated 40,000 street children in the DRC,
including about 14,000 in Kinshasa,1 though many development actors believe this number to be
an underestimate. Of this total, an estimated 26 percent were girls, who are more vulnerable to
rape, unwanted pregnancy, and other forms of abuse. Because of the violence to which they were
exposed on a daily basis and the lack of adult guidance, street children tended to live on the
margins of society and engage in antisocial behavior, including substance abuse, crime,
vandalism, sex work, and unsafe sex. Studies conducted in Kinshasa reported that nine out of ten
street girls were involved in sex work, and seven out of ten have been raped. These experiences
have highly negative consequences for the children themselves (drug addiction, sexually
transmitted diseases, unwanted early pregnancies, imprisonment) but, also, for society as a whole.
In addition to the obvious security problem posed by street children and the consequent loss of
business or diminished quality of life for the general population, street children without
assistance are not likely to grow up into well-adjusted and productive adults and may instead
become easy prey for recruitment by urban gangs and militias. The issue of children living on the
street was considered not only a major human development issue, but also an economic and a
security risk.




1
    UNICEF. 2006. Recensement des enfants de la rue de la ville province de Kinshasa.


                                                          1
5.       Both the political will and institutional framework required to address the issue of street
children were in place at the time of project design. Since 2004, the Ministry of Social Affairs,
Humanitarian Action, and National Solidarity (MINAS) had produced a social protection
strategy for vulnerable groups. MINAS had also developed a National Action Plan for Orphans
and Vulnerable Children (OVC) in 2009. The promulgation of the Child Protection Law, which
was developed with considerable support from the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF),
illustrated the political will to respect and promote children rights in accordance with
international law. Other ministries (such as the Ministry of Gender, Family, and Children; the
Ministry of Public Health; the Ministry of Youth and Sports; the Ministry of Education; the
Ministry of Interior; the Ministry of Security; the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection; and
the Ministry of Justice and Human Rights) had been involved in one way or another in child
protection issues. Numerous coordination bodies were in place, including the UNICEF-supported
OVC coordination committee (locally known as Commission mixte) that comprised several
ministries, donors, and national and international nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and
faith-based organizations (FBOs) involved in child protection.

6.      The project was implemented in a very difficult post-conflict operational environment
where limited systems existed, social interventions were geared towards providing emergency
assistance and governance challenges were widespread. Social and institutional capital remained
very weak throughout implementation, with constant threats of political instability. In the eastern
provinces of the country, active conflict persisted, which resulted in ongoing displacement of
populations, with many families streaming into Kinshasa and other parts of the country,
considered more stable.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.      The PDO was to improve the delivery mechanisms of prevention and support services for
street children, primarily in Kinshasa.

8.      The key outcome indicators at design were the following:

             Child protection committees that are active (%)2

             Target households who correctly recall key messages about children’s rights from
              the campaigns financed under the project (%)

             Children at risk provided with education or remedial education opportunities
              financed under the project (number per year, disaggregated by sex)

             Street children offered access to comprehensive support services                        3
                                                                                                          (number,
              disaggregated by sex)


2
  Active is defined relatively to the mandate of the child protection committees based on (a) the number of technical
meetings held per month; (b) the percentage of child protection cases that are successfully addressed per month; and
(c) the understanding of laws pertaining to child protection.
3
  Comprehensive support services are defined as education, health, shelter (may be temporary), psychosocial support,
vocational training, and family reunification.


                                                         2
              Street children having restored            4
                                                              relationships with their families (number,
               disaggregated by sex)

              Direct project beneficiaries (number) - % female (core) broken down by (a) children
               supported per type of services, (b) community leaders and authorities sensitized,5 (c)
               NGOs and government workers trained

9.       The indicators remained unchanged through the life of the project. However, all key
stakeholders in the project held a workshop in December 2013 before the midterm review, to
clarify the definition of the indicators and ensure a shared understanding.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
    Reasons/Justification

10.      The PDO and key indicators remained unchanged through the life of the project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11.     The beneficiaries of Component 1 (prevention) are defined in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) as children at risk and their households, living primarily in four communes of
the greater Kinshasa metropolitan area that are most often the point of origin for street children
(the so-called supplying zones of Masina, Kimbanseke, Limete, and Bumbu). Children at risk
were identified as those affected by the most common proximate causes of ‘streetism’, including
(a) family break-up and the subsequent abandonment, mistreatment, or severe neglect of orphans
and step-children; (b) accusations of witchcraft; (c) lack of parental responsibility or simply
ignorance of children’s needs and rights; and (d) dropping out of school.

12.     Under Component 2 (assistance), the project targeted street children, defined in the
appraisal document as ‘“boys and girls under the age of 18, loitering and living in the street, who
are no longer under the authority and responsibility of an adult, and who make a living on the
street using all means necessary.” A particular focus on street girls was promoted. While girls
made up only one in four street children, they were considered a priority given their increased
vulnerability to rape and other forms of abuse. Activities were planned to focus on 8 of the 24
communes of the Kinshasa larger metropolitan area, selected for their high concentration of
street children: Gombé, Kinshasa, Masina, Matete, Kasa-vubu, Kalamu, Kitambo, and Selembao.

13.      Component 3 (capacity building) was focused on strengthening the capacity of national
institutional actors and implementing partners with a direct role in the prevention and delivery of
assistance to children at risk and street children. These included the MINAS through its Unit for
Social Interventions for Child Protection (in French Direction des Interventions Sociales pour la
Protection de l’Enfant or DISPE) and its Unit for Research and Planning (in French Direction d
’Etudes et de Planification or DEP); the Ministries of Justice, Gender, Education, Family, and
Children; service providers (NGOs and FBOs); local community committees involved in


4
 Defined as having given or received at least two visits to/from relatives per year.
5
 These may include neighborhood chiefs; religious authorities (pastors, priests); school principals; presidents of
women’s associations and other community-based organizations; and government representatives.


                                                          3
community-based prevention activities; local media; and the umbrella association of NGOs
working with street children (REJEER).

14.     Though the project was designed to primarily benefit current or potential street children
in Kinshasa and its larger metropolitan area, some of its prevention and capacity-building
activities were to have a national coverage. For example, radio programs on children rights were
broadcasted in all the provinces, and training for MINAS staff were also provided to personnel
based outside the capital.

1.5 Original Components

15.    The project was planned to finance a package of short-term and medium- to longer-term
interventions developed based on experience with the delivery of prevention and response
interventions in the country. It also planned to strengthen the capacity of MINAS to effectively
coordinate, monitor, and evaluate ongoing interventions. The project had the following three
components for a total value of XDR 6.60 million, equivalent to US$10 million at the time of
approval.

16.     Component 1: Prevention (US$3.1 million). As mentioned above, this component
aimed at tackling the most common proximate causes of ‘streetism’. Activities to reduce the
number of children ending up in the streets included (a) organization and support to community-
level child-protection networks; (b) community awareness campaigns (for example, using
interactive theater); (c) media outreach through community radios; and (d) support to schooling
opportunities.

17.     Component 2: Assistance (US$4.3 million). This component aimed at improving
coverage and quality of services for street children, with particular attention to the special needs
of street girls. Activities aimed at improving coverage and quality of basic services for street
children were provided. These included health, education (formal and nonformal), shelter,
medical services, food, psychosocial assistance, legal services, family reintegration (when
appropriate), group housing, skills training, and economic reintegration.

18.    Component 3: Capacity building, coordination, and project management (US$2.6
million). Activities were conducted to build the capacity of project stakeholders, especially
MINAS, to (a) develop standards for activities targeting street children; (b) coordinate the
interventions of different stakeholders (national and international actors); and (c) monitor and
evaluate ongoing interventions. Trainings were also provided to service providers, including
local NGOs and FBOs, the media, representatives from the Ministries of Justice, Education,
Gender, Family, and Children.

1.6 Revised Components

19.   There were no revisions to the components and they largely functioned and were
implemented as described in section 1.5.




                                                 4
1.7 Other Significant Changes

20.     There were no changes to the design, scope, and scale or funding allocations of the
project. The implementation arrangements were modified in August 2014 through a level 2
restructuring to give full responsibility for fiduciary management to the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) at MINAS.

21.     In its initial design, the project gave fiduciary responsibilities to the Social Fund of the
Democratic Republic of Congo (Social Fund), a government institution with over ten years of
experience successfully managing International Development Association (IDA)-funded
community-driven development projects of over US$100 million in budget. This choice was
informed by the limited capacity of MINAS and the desire to promote efficiency by tapping into
existing resources supported by the same donor (fiduciary experts at the Social Fund) rather than
recruiting a new team of experts on the relatively limited budget of the Street Children Project.
However, the project midterm review found that the Social Fund had become overstretched
because of a new project and unable to provide the level of oversight required. After a rapid
assessment of the capacity of MINAS (which had by then developed familiarity with Bank
fiduciary policy and procedures), all fiduciary functions were shifted under the responsibility of
its PIU. According to the terms of the restructuring, which was finalized on August 13, 2014, a
full-time internal auditor and a part-time procurement specialist were recruited to strengthen the
PIU fiduciary functions.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

22.     Soundness of background analysis. Extensive background analysis informed project
design. During preparation, a consultant recruited by the Bank reviewed and mapped all child
protection interventions in Kinshasa. The study identified key stakeholders, analyzed the needs
of the children, and formulated some recommendations for project design. In-depth and
systematic consultations were subsequently held with government actors, technical and financial
partners, FBOs, and NGOs working on child protection and helped identify priority intervention
areas for the proposed Bank funding. The gaps identified were described in the PAD to include
insufficient coverage of services; limited focus on preventive measures; inadequate skills and
training of most private and public service providers; very few successful interventions and
limited expertise in the area of psychosocial assistance; and weak national leadership.
Accordingly, the project focused on prevention, assistance, and strengthening the capacity of
service providers as well as the government to coordinate child protection interventions.

23.      Assessment of project design. The technical design of the project was sound and
reflected lessons learned from the implementation of similar interventions in other contexts,6
including (a) investing in prevention activities; (b) attempting to mainstream children and
facilitating reintegration within the family and the community; and (c) supporting vocational

6
 The project document stipulates that lessons from non-Bank operations targeting street children in other countries
came primarily from Latin America, where formal efforts to deal with the problem date back to the 1980s with the
active involvement of the Inter-American Development Bank and also from a number of African and Asian
countries where NGOs have generally been at the forefront of efforts.


                                                         5
training and professional education when feasible. The PDO was specific, measurable,
achievable, and realistic. The components were well formulated to contribute to the objective,
and their simple design was appropriate for the low-capacity context. The intervention focused
on Kinshasa and its metropolitan area, which was a sound strategic approach to show impact
while tackling a complex issue, given the relatively limited envelope of the project.

24.      Adequacy of government commitment. MINAS, as the ministry mandated for
noncontributory social protection, showed strong interest and commitment to the operation from
the design stage until closing. However, because of the capacity challenges facing the ministry
(lack basic office space, limited logistical and communications means, and absence of well-
remunerated qualified staff), the decision was made to share responsibilities for implementation
with the Social Fund. A leanly staffed PIU was to be established with the responsibility for day-
to-day project management. However, considering MINAS’ lack of experience with Bank
projects and its overall weakness, fiduciary responsibility was given to the Social Fund, an
autonomous government agency with an established good record in managing IDA funds and, at
the time, a dwindling portfolio—and therefore under-programmed fiduciary staff. A
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) (Protocol d’accord) spelled out the duties and
responsibilities of the two parties. A steering committee comprising representatives of the
following entities served as the oversight body: the Studies and Planning Department of MINAS;
the Child Protection Department of MINAS; the Provincial Division for Social Affairs
(Kinshasa) of MINAS; civil society (one of the umbrella NGO organizations); the Ministry of
Primary, Secondary, and Professional Education; and the Ministry of Gender, Family, and
Children. Most activities under Components 1 and 2, as well as some of the activities under
Component 3, were to be contracted to private actors (NGOs, FBOs, consulting firms). Selection
of partner implementing organizations was to be carried out in line with Bank procedures. These
institutional arrangements sought to strike a balance between promoting government ownership
and ensuring quality of delivery by involving institutions with the required technical expertise.
While it was technically sound given the low capacity context, the arrangement did complicate
fiduciary management for the project.

25.      Assessment of risks. The overall risk rating was High, which was appropriate given the
fragility of the overall context. Four of the risks anticipated at the design stage materialized
during implementation: (a) high turnover of staff interfered with capacity-building efforts; (b) the
Social Fund became overwhelmed and unable to deliver optimum performance in fiduciary
management; (c) the relationship between MINAS and the Social Fund became strained; and (d)
partner NGO/FBO had some capacity deficits. The mitigation measures planned were effectively
triggered and reduced the impact of the negative events on the project, which was able to achieve
and in most cases exceed all its intended outcome indicators.

2.2 Implementation

Quality of Implementation

26.     The project became effective on February 28, 2011, eight months after approval. It was
downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory in 2012, continuously improved to Moderately
Satisfactory until the midterm review, and was ranked Satisfactory during its final 15 months.



                                                 6
27.     The slow start was partially due to difficulties in meeting the four nonstandard
effectiveness conditions that are included in the Financing Agreement: (a) the adoption of a
project implementation manual; (b) the establishment of a steering committee to provide
oversight in implementation; (c) the establishment of a PIU as the entity in charge of the day-to-
day management of the Street Children Project, including the recruitment of key staff; and (d)
the execution and delivery of the MoU between the recipient through the MINAS and the Social
Fund.

28.     Several factors gave rise to challenges during project implementation, particularly during
the early years.

           The lack of project preparation funds to provide the Social Fund with the adequate
            level of resources required to meet all the effectiveness conditions on time.

           The PIU and the implementing partners were not familiar with Bank guidelines and
            procedures. Despite having been selected through a competitive process, the PIU
            staff had an appropriate technical profile but limited project management experience.
            This low capacity created a steep learning curve for the project management staff
            and accounted for a difficult first year of implementation.

           The MoU between MINAS and the Social Fund took a long time to be negotiated
            and settled. The complexity of the institutional arrangements created two lines of
            accountability, which resulted in tensions between MINAS and the Social Fund,
            slowing the decision-making process.

           The Bank presented an opportunity for the project to access an additional US$1.8
            million grant to pilot a conditional cash transfer intervention on condition that the
            PIU provide a list of beneficiary households (to be identified with the help of
            implementing partners). The PIU failed to identify the beneficiaries and, after eight
            months, the grant was cancelled.

           When the NGOs/FBOs subcontracted community-based organizations to conduct
            activities, the quality of the assistance delivered often suffered. This problem was
            addressed during the midterm review, with the decision to stop subcontracting
            interventions to smaller organizations

           The sudden departure and subsequent high turnover of the Social Fund procurement
            staff caused implementation delays until the restructuring.

29.     Project performance improved to Moderately Satisfactory after all service providers were
recruited in 2012. The rating continued to improve to Satisfactory until closing. The following
factors contributed to successful implementation:

           Technical expertise of the service providers. All twelve service providers
            recruited (three international and nine national NGOs) had extensive experience
            working with street children in Kinshasa. This ensured that rapid progress was made
            in achieving project targets once all key partners were in place.


                                                7
           Technical support from the Bank. Close supervision by the Bank staff, including
            the recruitment of an experienced consultant based in Kinshasa, was key in rapidly
            addressing implementation issues as they unfolded, including by providing hands-on
            support.

           Project restructuring. As previously mentioned, once it was established that the
            Social Fund was no longer able to effectively assume its fiduciary duties, the project
            was restructured to simplify institutional arrangements.

Case Reported to the Department of Institutional Integrity

30.     In 2012, allegations of financial mismanagement and corruption within the PIU was
brought up. A public exchange of accusations ensued and the case was reported to the
Department of Institutional Integrity (INT) where it was decided that an operational response
would be more appropriate than a formal INT investigation. The Social Fund conducted a
thorough assessment that confirmed that $1600 had been misappropriated. The following course
of action was adopted: (i) temporary suspension of the project staff involved; (ii) reimbursement
of the misappropriated funds; and (iii) issuance of a strong letter of warning to the project
coordinator who was exhorted to strictly enforce administrative and financial management
procedures. While this incident did not have any impact on the project outcomes, it further
strained the relationship between the PIU/MINAS and the Social Fund, eventually contributing
to the decision to restructure the project in August 2014. As one of the conditions for transferring
fiduciary responsibilities to the PIU, an internal auditor was recruited to reduce risks of
mismanagement, which was deemed satisfactory to the Bank. No further concerns arose.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

31.     Adequate indicators were identified to monitor progress toward achieving the PDO.
There were some delays in developing the M&E manual, given capacity constraints within the
PIU, but by June 2012, the project adopted an M&E manual, which outlined a data gathering and
reporting protocol for the implementing agencies who were responsible for collecting and
sharing indicator data with the PIU. The quality of data collection and reporting during the first
half of the project was affected by delays in recruiting a dedicated M&E specialist at the PIU
after the post was vacated in 2012. The situation stabilized in 2013, and a workshop was
conducted to harmonize understanding of all M&E indicators and confirm the accuracy of data
provided to date. Two staff from MINAS were assigned to expand the reach of the M&E team
within the PIU. All of these efforts led to the improved data quality.

32.     Data collected through the regular monitoring exercises were effectively used to monitor
project performance and informed corrective action as needed. For instance, the allocation of the
budget envelope per zone was revised based on the review of number of beneficiaries targeted
per NGO per location. Likewise, the cost of delivering the same services to the beneficiaries was
harmonized by the end of the project, and norms and standards to deliver assistance were
established based on information available in the M&E system. Utilization of the M&E system
would have been optimal if it had been linked with the financial management system, which was
not the case until the end of the project. With help from UNICEF and, later, the U.S. Agency for



                                                 8
International Development (USAID), the project developed a central child protection database
for Kinshasa, which is being managed by the local MINAS office.

33.     In parallel to the IDA-grant, the task team secured resources from a Trust Fund to carry
out an impact evaluation of the prevention component. Fafo, a Norwegian research institute
specialized in difficult-to-reach populations and with extensive experience in DRC was recruited
for the task. However, findings from the evaluation were inconclusive because of a delay in
project start-up, which required a second baseline survey to be conducted and prevented Fafo’s
full involvement in the follow-up survey, as well as methodological limitations. For instance
differentiating the control from the treatment group proved impossible as there were several
interventions targeting the same communities and respondents could not reliably attribute a
specific activity to a specific actor or project. However, sufficient anecdotal evidence (as well as
findings from regular supervision missions) exist to document the positive impact of the project
on the lives of the beneficiaries targeted.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

34.    Social and environmental safeguards. The project was rated as Category C as no
adverse environmental or social impacts were expected nor did they occur during
implementation.

35.      Fiduciary management performance. The PAD identified moderate fiduciary risks and
proposed mitigation measures that were implemented during the project period. At the design
stage, the Social Fund manuals were adapted for use by the project and its staff were responsible
for managing staff recruitment, financial transactions, and reporting and procurement processes
for the Street Children Project. While this arrangement was well informed given the strong
performance of the Social Fund in managing its nationwide program, in practice, there were
some problems at the outset. The Social Fund operating manuals were designed to manage
community-based infrastructure projects, not social service projects, so there were some
inconsistencies that needed to be overcome before the procedures were well adapted for the
Street Children Project. The timing of the launch of the Street Children Project also coincided
with a period of financial uncertainty for the Social Fund, causing some staffing shortages. As a
result, the staff recruitment process for the PIU took longer than expected and once the staff was
hired, it was expected to set the office up under difficult conditions since the project did not
benefit from a project preparation grant.

36.     By mid-2012, 15 months after project effectiveness and two years after Board approval,
the project’s financial management was downgraded from Satisfactory to Moderately
Unsatisfactory, in response to concerns that the Street Children Project’s PIU was not complying
with the procedures highlighted in its manuals and was not receiving adequate oversight from the
Social Fund. Corrective measures were adopted as described in paragraph 29. Subsequently, the
project’s financial management improved considerably. Beneficiary NGOs consulted during the
Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) preparation process commented that there
were early problems but that recent cash flow has been very smooth, allowing them to carry out
their projects on time. All external audit reports, including the final project audit of FY2015,
were unqualified and submitted on time.



                                                 9
37.    The project closing and application deadline dates being August 31, 2015 and December
31, 2015, respectively, due diligence on financial management, as it relates to project closing,
was initiated with the following results:

       (a) Full documentation on the use of all funds advanced to the designated account and
           the refund of the undocumented balance of funds in the designated account has been
           effected.

       (b) The project physical asset inventory count was performed in August 2015, the
           physical inventory listings signed off by the project and MINAS, with ownership of
           the assets acquired using project funds reverting to MINAS.

38.     The final audit report as well as associated financial statements were issued, with no
qualification points for the former.

39.     Procurement performance. Procurement for the Street Children Project occurred at two
levels through the life of this project: (a) the selection of the implementing NGOs and (b)
purchase of larger goods and recruitment of consultants. As in the case of financial management,
in the project’s early years, the Social Fund was responsible for performing the procurement
function for the Street Children Project. Performance was rated Satisfactory at first, but by June
2012, it was downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory due to the poor quality of procurement
documents prepared by the Street Children Project’s staff, who lacked the appropriate level of
oversight from the Social Fund, where there was a high turnover rate at the procurement
specialist post (including periods during which the post was vacant). The Bank addressed these
deficits by providing training on procurement to the PIU and following up with the Social Fund.
The restructuring of the project in 2014 improved the situation. The PIU was responsible for
performing the procurement function with the periodic support of a recruited procurement
consultant. The second round of project grants to NGOs were signed by the end of 2014 and all
the partners fully expended their funding before the project closing date. During the procurement
post review carried out in June 2015, the procurement risk remained Substantial.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

40.     Capacity to coordinate and deliver prevention interventions was effectively strengthened,
and much of the work carried out has the potential for long-term impact: (a) households at risk
gained knowledge through the dissemination of information about child rights and parental
responsibilities; (b) community-based neighborhood prevention committees were created or
strengthened; and (c) communication materials are still available. However, funding to continue
carrying out these activities (including the support provided to reduce school dropout rates
among children at risk) will be challenging to secure (see the section on Assessment of Risk to
Development Outcome).

41.    A number of the NGOs interviewed suggested that prevention activities might have had
more sustainable results had there been an economic development aspect to the component. For
instance, micro-savings, micro-credit, or entrepreneurship training could have been provided to
households of children at risk. This ICR concludes that the design of the prevention component
was appropriate given the low-capacity context. Additional activities geared toward poverty



                                               10
reduction would have complicated the design of the operation by (a) introducing technical
concepts for which little expertise was available among actors working on child protection; (b)
reducing the total number of project beneficiaries; and (c) stretching the already limited budget
envelop without guarantee of results. As one of its final investments, the project financed a
training of its NGO and government partners in how to organize micro-savings programs for
vulnerable households at risk of child abandonment. It also provided fundraising training to the
NGOs, which built proposal writing skills and encouraged the participants to work together as a
network to explore a range of local donors such as businesses active in the affected
neighborhoods and national and international private and public sector sources.

42.     Institutional sustainability. Of the twelve NGOs funded by the project, three
international and nine local NGOs that were operating long before the project began have further
improved their reputation for delivering quality prevention or assistance services. Even though
they are faced with the challenge of raising new funds to replace the Bank resources, these local
NGOs will likely continue operating and delivering services to the best of their capacity.

43.     The project supported capacity-building efforts and investments that will exceed the life
of the project as follows:

           Helping MINAS develop norms and standards for preventing and assisting street
            children as well as best practice guidelines on how to reunite street children with
            their parents.

           Including a high-level, MINAS staff person as part of its management team and
            inviting representatives from the national and provincial offices of MINAS to
            participate in joint supervision visits.

           Providing trainings to MINAS staff during the course of the project, more
            specifically on norms and standards for service delivery, M&E, as well as
            fundraising.

           Financing equipment such as computers and vehicles to facilitate MINAS’ work at
            the national and provincial level.

           Rotating two MINAS social workers through the PIU, which gave these field
            officers some new skills in project oversight and improved the quality of project
            monitoring.

           Rehabilitating the building where the project was housed after it moved out of the
            Social Fund’s offices for use by MINAS after project end. This building, which
            includes a meeting space that can comfortably accommodate up to 40 people, will
            continue to house MINAS activities related to vulnerable children.

           Building a shelter with the capacity to house 70 children, within the campus of the
            provincial division of social affairs in Kinshasa.




                                               11
           Building the capacity of the NGO partners to meet the rigorous project and financial
            management standards required by a Bank-funded project, making them attractive
            partners to other donors.

           Building the capacity of NGO partners to work in collaboration and develop
            winning proposals as individual organizations and in a consortium.

44.    These efforts complemented Capacityplus, a comprehensive institutional strengthening
intervention funded by USAID to build the management, planning, training, and supervision
capacity of social service workers through direct partnership with MINAS.

3.   Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation -
Rating: High

(a) Relevance of Objectives (High)

45.     The PDO is relevant to this day and will remain relevant as long as Kinshasa continues to
host a large number of street children. Considering the root causes of the phenomenon—poverty,
family break-up, lack of parental responsibility, and belief in witchcraft—the situation is not
likely to change in the near future. The Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY13–16
approved in April 2013 reflects this continued demand and includes “improving social service
delivery to raise human development indicators” as one of its objectives. The project’s objective
contributes to the Bank’s twin goals of eradicating poverty and contributing to shared prosperity,
particularly the former since it aims to help the most vulnerable in society in one of the poorest
countries in the world.

46.     The PDO is also consistent with government policy priorities highlighted in the 2011–
2015 DRC Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (GPRSP 2). These include (a)
promoting the rights and the dignity of vulnerable groups (through prevention and sensitization);
(b) increasing access to basic social services; (c) promoting and facilitating the economic and
socio-professional reintegration of vulnerable groups; and (d) building the capacity of key
stakeholders. The project also contributed to achieving the Millennium Development Goal
(MDG) No. 1 - eradicate extreme poverty and hunger; MDG No. 2 - achieve universal primary
education; and MDGs No. 4 and 5 - reduce child mortality and improve maternal health.

(b) Relevance of Design (High)

47.     The project was designed around a solid causal model. Component 1 tackled some of the
most common proximate causes of ‘streetism’ as identified during preliminary analytical work.
In particular, efforts to keep children in school were supported because dropping out of school is
often a precursor of family abandonment or expulsion. Activities were concentrated on the
communes of the greater Kinshasa metropolitan area that are most often the point of origin for
street children (the so-called ‘supplying zones’). It should be noted that during the design stage, a
strong emphasis on prevention was requested by NGOs active with street children, as this was
considered a neglected but fundamental issue—dealing with the stock of street children is not
enough, what matters is stemming the flow.


                                                 12
48.     Component 2 financed a set of activities aimed at improving coverage and quality of
services for street children, with special attention to street girls. Over 15,000 children were
reached overall and 10,000 (41 percent girls) benefited from an integrated package of support,
including shelter, health, and education. Activities focused on the communes with the highest
concentration of street children. Street educators and informal Listening Centers offered the first
contact for children with the ‘regular’ world and caring adults, thus representing the entry point
for other services. Transit Centers provided, in addition to immediate protection, access to a
number of services with longer-term objectives such as psychosocial counseling and remedial
classes. While the project envisioned providing vocational training to the children, in part based
upon the belief that family reunification would be easier when the child possessed skills that
make him/her an economic asset to the household, the reality was that vocational education
requires that a child be 15 years or above to participate and only 11 percent of the beneficiaries
met the age requirement. Over 5,000 children (48 percent girls) reestablished contact with their
families and of these, over 4,000 (29 percent girls) returned to live with their families.

49.    Component 3 supported capacity-building activities to promote increased institutional
capacity and better coordination mechanisms and systems, which in turn were expected to
contribute to the continuation of the interventions beyond the life of the project. Capacity-
building activities could have further benefited MINAS by systematically involving social
workers in the supervision of field activities.

(c) Relevance of Implementation (Substantial)

50.    Despite a slow start, implementation performed solidly under very difficult
circumstances—the challenging post-conflict context, the high turnover rate of project staff, and
the complex institutional arrangements. The task team had a solid rationale for making the Social
Fund responsible for fiduciary management at the design stage. Adequate adjustments were
made through a restructuring to address challenges in implementing these arrangements.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial

51.     Given the limited prior experience of the Bank in this field of work, indicator targets
were established based on cost estimates elaborated with input from MINAS, UNICEF, and
other key implementing partners. More than 17,293 beneficiaries (out of a target of 9,450)
directly benefited from the project, suggesting that the cost estimate may have been conservative.
The Street Children Project performance at closing indicates that it overcame implementation
challenges and surpassed the expected target on all its outcome indicators without needing an
extension as indicated in the results framework included the datasheet of this ICR. The direct
number of beneficiaries exceeds the target by 45 percent, even though the project did not meet
the sub-indicator target on the number of NGOs and government workers trained.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Substantial

52.     The overall efficiency of the project is rated Substantial with the following caveats: (a) as
stated in the PAD, cost-benefit analysis at appraisal was not possible due to limited available


                                                 13
data and (b) a comparison of the economic costs, financial costs, and cost-effectiveness of the
Street Children Project with other donor-funded interventions (both within the DRC and in the
region) is rendered complicated by variations in the packages of assistance and models of
delivery.

53.     The proposed rating is informed by the project’s successful adoption of a number of
measures to promote efficiency in implementation and delivery. In accordance with the WB
Social Protection Strategy, the project supported the establishment of guidelines, norms,
standards, and minimum floors for prevention and assistance activities based on findings from a
number of assessments (including a study on unitary costs). The approach of the NGO with the
most successful model was generally promoted, thus helping both the government and the
partners capitalize on the learning opportunities provided by the project. Supervision documents
reviewed in preparing this ICR reflect overall improvements in the quality of the assistance
delivered against a number of indicators, including the nutritional packages (and frequency of
meals); the standards for family reunification; the rehabilitation of infrastructures within which
the children were hosted; and the quality of the school kits.

54.    The project made judicious use of financial resources. NGOs with extensive prior
experience street children were recruited as implementing partners. They relied on their network
to operate in the geographical areas of intervention. They also benefited from bulk purchasing
for some inputs, such as school kits, which helped lower their costs.

55.    The project administrative costs, including the PIU salaries, rent, transportation amounted
to 6 percent of total project expenditures. The PIU team was small and there was frequent staff
turnover, leaving some positions vacant for a number of months, both of these factors
contributed to the low administrative ratio of the project.

56.     The project exceeded its targets with no extension and a reasonable Bank Budget, which
is another indication of the overall efficiency in delivering and supervising this intervention.
While the project was high performing with regard to meeting its targeted results, the scale of the
project budget was not sufficient to adequately address the scale of the street children population
in Kinshasa, which continues to grow despite the efforts of this project, given the steady arrival
of migrants from other parts of the DRC.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

57.     While the project got off to a slow start and continued to suffer from management
challenges and the difficult post-conflict operating environment, the project design as well as the
dedication and capacity of stakeholders/implementing partners ensured that the outcome
indicators were surpassed.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

58.    Poverty impacts. The individuals, households, and neighborhoods targeted by this
project were living in extreme poverty. By investing in formal and informal education, the


                                                14
project helped street children and other vulnerable children become adults who are more
productive. By reuniting street children with their families, the project helped children increase
their likelihood of future well-being and by educating vulnerable parents about the rights of their
children and their responsibility to protect their children, the project likely helped keep
vulnerable children living at home rather than exposed to negative risks and a grim future on the
streets.

59.     Gender aspects. Of the 15,586 street children who benefited from at least one service, 29
percent were girls. The project made a concerted effort (both through its design and
implementation approach) to reach out to girls who represent one fourth of the street children
population, because of their acute vulnerability. As a result, an estimated 41 percent of the
10,000 street children who benefited from a holistic package of services were girls. An estimated
48 percent of the over 5,000 street children who reconnected to their families were girls;
however, only 29 percent of those who returned to live with their families were girls. Since
female street children represent only about one-quarter of street children,7 the high rates at which
the project benefited girls confirms that the project had a gender bias toward girls. Some centers
exclusively served girls and educated them on reproductive health. Girls who were pregnant or
living in the street with a child received education on how to care for their children and avoid
unwanted pregnancies in the future. While centers that specialized in serving girls, particularly
those with children were largely staffed by women, overall, the staff of the NGOs was
predominantly male. This was particularly true at the level of senior staff, , with only one of 12
NGO partners led by a woman.

60.     Social development. Both the prevention and assistance components contributed to the
social development of the beneficiaries, with the prevention component assisting low-income
parents to enroll their children in school, and the assistance component providing wrap-around
social services to street children, including pyscho-social support, formal and informal education,
health care, and vocational training.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

61.     The implementing partners, particularly the local NGOs, are institutionally stronger as a
result of the project. The local NGOs contracted to implement the project gained experience
working with Bank funds, which is expected to translate into effective management of other
donor funds in the future. During the implementation period, the NGO partners benefited from
several training programs on procurement, M&E, fundraising, and micro-savings. The NGOs
also had opportunities to learn from one another and to shape best-practice manuals regarding
family reunification.

62.     MINAS benefited from several capacity-building opportunities. Four of its full-time staff
worked as staff for the Project Management Unit, which built skills in project management, and
M&E. Likewise, the project assisted MINAS to lead a participatory process to define norms and
standards of service delivery for vulnerable children and to develop a manual on family
reunification processes. As a result of the partnership with the USAID-financed CapacityPlus
Project and UNICEF, as well as funding from a complementary grant from the Rapid Social

7
    UNICEF. 2006. Recensement des enfants de la rue de la ville province de Kinshasa.


                                                         15
Response Fund, the norms and standards were disseminated in all 11 provinces through a series
of workshops. MINAS staff at the headquarters were trained as trainers. The whole exercise was
an unprecedented experience for the ministry and feedback was enthusiastic: central staff felt
empowered and provincial staff were grateful for a rare opportunity to receive guidance on
quality control and monitoring. These tools will serve the ministry and civil society for years to
come. MINAS also played a key role in negotiating with other sector ministries to provide
services to street children and other vulnerable children at no cost to the beneficiary.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

n.a.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

63.    On April8-9, 2015, a workshop was held, bringing together 40 representatives of the
government and non-government actors as well as the World Bank, UNICEF, the Embassy of
Canada, all involved in the DRC Street Children Project. The primary purpose of the meeting
was to reflect on the successes and challenges achieved by the project and to explore ways to
prolong the project activities beyond the planned August 31, 2015 close-out date. The workshop
was also led to a formal request by the project actors to ask donors to approve additional funding
that would include a continuation of the activities started in Kinshasa and an expansion of the
program to other parts of the country, including the cities of Lubumbashi, Kisangani, Mbuji-
Mayi and Kikwit. The additional financing would also reinforce the capacity of the Ministry of
Social Affairs, known by its acronym in French as MINAS, so better care for street children.

64.     After acknowledging the slow start-up of the project, participants celebrated the progress
made in achieving the planned project results, both in the area of prevention and assistance. The
success in reintegrating street children with their families was highlighted. Concerning capacity
building for MINAS, the participants noted the national standards on working with vulnerable
that MINAS developed with project support, the training provided to MINAS 160 social
assistants working to serve vulnerable children, and the donation of vehicles, computers and
other equipment to MINAS.

65.    Through group discussions, the participants identified the most promising interventions
under each component and their recommendations, should additional funding become available.
The team that worked on the prevention component highlighted the following three interventions
as most effective in preventing child abandonment:

          The Local Child Protection Committees, who are able to identify children at risk of
           abandonment due to abuse or neglect. These committees should be expanded to other
           neighborhoods and strengthened.
          The educational campaigns using different types of communication strategies, including
           radio, interactive theatre, home visits, and educational chats. These campaigns helped to
           build awareness of the Child Protection Law.
          School enrollment for children at risk helps to minimize the risk that children will end up
           in the street. Vocational training for older children helps them to take care of themselves,
           which is particularly important for vulnerable girls.


                                                   16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

66. The overall risk to the project achieving its development outcome is rated Significant,
due to factors such as the overall operating environment (which remains characteristic of most
low-capacity post-conflict contexts), political volatility, and low government commitment to
provide adequate budget support to MINAS so that it can to continue to provide, monitor, and
coordinate interventions for street children.

67. The main risks to the long-term development outcome would be the availability of
resources and the NGO’s capacity to mobilize funds to continue supporting this type of
intervention. In reformulating its strategic engagement in the DRC, the Bank has decided to
reduce the number of its operations and to focus on key priority sectors. The issue of street
children is expected to be addressed by the broader umbrella of interventions that are designed
to improve access of vulnerable populations to basic social services and to protect human
capital. Hence, no funds were allocated to specifically extend support through the Street
Children Project.

68. The project did invest in training its partner NGOs in collaborative fundraising to prolong
both the work in prevention and assistance initiated under the project. Likewise, it provided a
training in micro-savings, an intervention that could address some of the underlying economic
causes of children ending up in the street.

69.     The project has had very positive results in improving the delivery mechanisms of
prevention and support services for street children in Kinshasa. However, most of the root causes
of the street children phenomenon are well beyond the scope of the project. While MINAS’
capacity to respond to the needs of street children is much stronger than it was at the beginning
of the project, budgetary limitations and severe capacity constraints continue to prevent it from
properly addressing the needs of vulnerable households. Until the government makes serious
gains in its fight against extreme poverty and a strong financial commitment to address the plight
of street children, this issue is likely to persist. Delivery mechanisms of prevention and
assistance interventions to this group have, however, significantly improved as a result of the
project.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

70.      The Bank team worked rapidly and closely with the government and key stakeholders to
propose a well-designed operation for Board approval in less than 6 months. The limited
institutional experience with this type of interventions was counterbalanced by assigning a
sociologist with in-depth expertise on child protection to co-lead project preparation. This
contributed to the strong design of the project.




                                               17
71.     There were some shortcomings in ensuring readiness to implement. Fewer conditions for
project effectiveness and the availability of project preparation funds would have ensured a faster
readiness to implement. The institutional arrangements also had to be negotiated, leading to
delays in the effective start of project activities. However, the strategic partnership with
implementing agencies that had an established track record serving street children and the solid
technical design of the operation ensured the rapid delivery of services once the contracts were
signed.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

72.     Over the life of the project, the Bank conducted 18 missions, 6 of which were focused on
financial management issues. The quality of project support and supervision improved during the
project cycle. In the first year of implementation, the PIU required far more support than it
received. Eventually, a more experienced task team leader, who had also been in the lead during
the design phase, took over the supervision of the project. While many of the internal
management problems within the PIU continued, once the NGOs received their grants, the
project began to produce results. A country-based consultant with considerable experience in
child protection was hired to provide continuous support to the PIU and took a very active role
both in monitoring and in providing hands-on assistance. The focus of Bank supervision at this
stage was to make sure that the NGOs received both the technical assistance and financial
resources needed on time to address challenges and bottlenecks as they arose. In its completion
report, the PIU lauded the Bank for its flexibility, responsiveness, and creativity in addressing
implementation challenges.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

73.    After a delayed start, the project produced very positive results despite a very challenging
operational context. This reflects a good design and the generally high quality of implementation
support provided to the service providers.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

74.     The Ministry of Social Affairs established the Project Steering Committee on February
14, 2011. It included representatives from the ministries of Social Affairs, Education, and Justice
as well as representatives from UNICEF, the provincial and local government, and the NGO
network serving street children. The steering committee had a strategic oversight role to ensure
that the project was operating successfully. It was responsible for the approval of annual plans
and budgets and was to assist the PIU in M&E as well as fundraising. The committee held ten
meetings, fulfilled its responsibilities to approve annual plans and budgets, and assisted in the
recruitment of project staff. Unfortunately, after MINAS was reorganized in September 2014, the
post of ‘minister’ was left vacant. As a result, no further meetings were convened until the
project closing date.


                                                18
75.     While MINAS contributed to delays in project start by not actively engaging in
negotiations to finalize the MoU with the Social Fund, it played a constructive and active role in
providing oversight and participating in supervision activities once the project became
operational. In line with the duties assigned to MINAS in the Financing Agreement, the
ministry—albeit with some delays—(a) ensured that project activities were consistent with local
laws; (b) liaised with other entities including the Ministries of Gender, Justice, Health, and
Education and the national police; (c) coordinated with relevant stakeholders during project
implementation; and (d) provided technical support when solicited during implementation. This
included leading the development and dissemination of the standards and norms for working
with street children and procedures for reunifying street children and their families.

76.     MINAS staff at the commune level also coordinated with the service providers to
supervise implementation. In the final year of the project, MINAS placed two social workers
from its communal offices to provide additional field support for the project and to build project
management skills. MINAS representatives also participated actively in training provided by the
project, which helped build closer personal relationships with many of the NGOs working with
street children.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

The Project Implementation Unit
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

77.     In addition to the shortcomings described above, the PIU performance was affected by a
high turnover rate of technical staff and a lack of team cohesion. Despite these challenging
circumstances, the project achieved good results because of the strong capacity of the NGOs and
MINAS’ commitment to the project success. Overall, the PIU respected the competitive partner
selection process and ended up contracting with the most experienced NGO serving street
children and vulnerable groups in the city. The implementing NGOs reported difficult working
relations with the PIU in the early stages of the project; however, as it learned to operate under
Bank rules and regulations, the PIU managed to transfer funds to the NGO partners on time. The
project supported activities that helped strengthen the relationship among the implementing
partners and MINAS while helping to institutionalize their work.

The Implementing NGOs
Rating: Satisfactory
78.    The success in achieving most of the project targets under the intermediary indicators
under Components 1 and 2 and all of the outcome indicators for the project would not have been
possible without the very satisfactory performance of the NGOs that were responsible for
implementing project activities with funds and capacity building from the PIU.

79.     The PIU used a competitive process to select the implementing NGOs, which was
successful in identifying the best potential partners, who not only had a track record in serving
street children but also had sufficiently strong management capacity to meet the rigorous
requirements of Bank financing. In all, twelve NGOs were funded by the project, three
international NGOs (Save the Children, War Child, and CESVI) and nine local NGOs. Three



                                               19
NGOs were solely involved in prevention activities; eight solely in assistance activities; and one,
Save the Children, was involved in both prevention and assistance activities. Save the Children
also helped build the capacity of two local NGOs, Chemin Neuf and ADSSE, so that they could
receive grants directly from the project, rather than work as its subcontractors.

80.     A total of US$5.9 million in subgrants were transferred to these 12 NGOs, of which they
spent 98 percent. Of the total, 34 percent was spent on prevention activities and 66 percent on
assistance, in line with projections. Over the course of the project, most NGOs benefited from
two grants each. The PIU worked closely with the NGOs to improve the quality of their
proposals before they finalized the first round of contracts. This contributed to some of the
delays in getting the project fully operational. During the first round of subgrants, the PIU gave
the same amount of funding per commune for prevention activities, without taking into account
the different population sizes. They adjusted their strategy during the second round of grants.
The average grant per commune for prevention was US$405,500, varying in size from just
US$100,000 up to over US$600,000, based upon the population of the targeted commune.
Subgrants for assistance projects were slightly larger, averaging US$486,000 and ranging in size
from US$105,000 to over US$500,000 based upon the level of experience of the beneficiary
NGO. The two local NGOs coached by Save the Children, received the smallest grants.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

81.     The Bank and MINAS collaborated to strengthen the PIU so that it was able to
successfully implement the project despite some internal weaknesses, particularly evident during
the early part of the project period.

6. Lessons Learned

82.    Establish strategic partnerships to capitalize on learning and strengthen
government response. Tackling the issue of street children is a relatively new field for the Bank,
especially in Africa. By working through experienced NGOs partners, the Bank seized the
opportunity to learn about and scale up good practices and help the government engage
productively with NGOs to jointly develop standards of practice appropriate to the local context
while informing the design of future Bank projects. In doing so, the project made a long-lasting
contribution to the sector.

83.     Investing in street children prevention should include linkages to economic
interventions. Economic interventions such as micro-savings provide an effective way to assist
low-income families to gradually accumulate funds that can be used to finance school fees or to
overcome other types of financial shocks, which may lead to instability within the household that
eventually lead to children being in the street. Micro-savings also promote community cohesion,
helping vulnerable households provide moral support to one another and, in turn, defuse tensions
and resolve problems. Future street children projects could facilitate linkages to economic
interventions targeting risk households and those receiving their children who had been living on
the street.




                                                20
84.     New strategies are required to reach older street children. One of the few
intermediary indicator targets that the project did not meet was the number of children who
benefited from participation in a vocational training program. This was largely because the age
requirement to participate in vocational training is 15 years and very few of the children living in
the street were 15 years and above. The project found that many of the older children, who had
once lived in the street, were living in group-houses that they had organized themselves and paid
for with the earnings they made through their work in the street. These youngsters were less
inclined to take advantage of drop-in centers, making them more difficult to find and serve.
Future projects could link this population group to youth interventions geared toward addressing
their specific needs.

85.     Use existing ministry staff to expand the capacity of the PIU. The PIU expanded its
M&E capacity by involving social assistants already trained by MINAS to work with street
children. These seconded staff improved the PIU’s capacity to verify the quality of data its
subgrantees were reporting in their quarterly reports. This exchange also helped build the M&E
capacity of some of the existing MINAS staff, who can continue to use these skills now that the
project has ended.

86.     Long-term sustainability of results depends upon government prioritizing
investments in social protection. While the Government of the DRC has made progress in
developing policies that promote social protection, it has yet to make the budgetary investments
necessary to transform policies into reality. MINAS ability to continue the work begun under
this project depends upon it being allocated sufficient resources to continue supporting NGOs to
meet and exceed the standards that it helped develop during this project. MINAS is allocated
only 1 percent of the national budget compared to 4 percent, on average, across Africa.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies

87.    In its completion report, the government team made the following observations:

           “The institutional arrangement of having the PIU report both to the Social Fund
            and MINAS was not only administratively cumbersome, but may have resulted in
            missed opportunities for building the capacity of the Ministry team.” (Borrower’s
            report, p.51)

            o    The ICR finds that the choice of institutional arrangement was well founded in
                 that it was informed by the low capacity of MINAS at the time of project
                 preparation. However, early signs that these arrangements would have been
                 difficult to implement should have led to an earlier recruitment of fiduciary
                 staff exclusively assigned to the management of the Street Children Project,
                 even if it meant higher operational costs. A review of institutional arrangements
                 indicates that even with the Social Fund being responsible for fiduciary
                 management, the ministry team benefited from numerous opportunities for
                 technical capacity building (see paragraphs 43 and 62 of the present document).



                                                21
   “The US$10 million budget was not enough to adequately address the street
    children issue in Kinshasa.” (Borrower’s report, p.51)

    o    After reviewing the project performance in meeting its key outcome indicators,
         the present document concludes that the intervention effectively met its
         objective of improving delivery mechanisms of prevention and support services
         of street children interventions. The ICR underscores that “adequately
         addressing the street children issue in Kinshasa” was beyond the scope of the
         project.

   “In the original operating manual, the project envisioned providing some small
    amount of funding to the schools that received the vulnerable children identified by
    the project; however, after signing agreements with the partner NGOs, the project
    changed its strategy, requiring the schools to receive the students without any form
    of compensation. This created some problems in enrolling students and caused
    friction between the schools and the implementing NGOs seeking to support
    beneficiaries. There should have been more consultation on this change.”
    (Borrower’s report, p.52)

    o    The ICR concurs that wider consultations should have been conducted to
         ensure a smoother process in changing strategies.

   “The project failed to take full advantage of MINAS’s capacity. For example, in
    each of the targeted communes, MINAS employs 8–14 social assistants, whose
    effectiveness is limited by their lack of resources. These individuals could have
    expanded the reach of the project, if they had been better integrated into its
    activities. Likewise, MINAS has some infrastructures in these communes that could
    have been utilized for the project, but were not. Instead, many of the NGOs who
    were engaged as implementing used project funds to pay rent for the facilities in
    which they delivered services to street children.” (Borrower’s report, p.52)

    o    After a review of the budget allocation between the different components of the
         project in relation to the needs, the ICR concludes that the allocation to
         capacity-building activities was adequate. Systematically involving social
         workers in implementation would have resulted in higher project costs. The
         Street Children Project complemented Capacityplus, a USAID-funded project
         that sought to support social workers in the country. However, it could have
         established more formal linkages with that project.

   “The collaborative work that the project facilitated in articulating a five-stage
    process for re-integrating street children back into their families was key to success
    of the project in helping over 4,000 children return to live with their families.”
    (Borrower’s report, p. 54)

    o    The present ICR concurs that the elaboration of norms and standards for service
         delivery to street children, including a manual for family reunification, is one of
         the key achievements of this project.


                                        22
                           Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Costs By Components (amounts in US$, Million)

                                         Appraisal
                                                           Actual/Latest
                                         Estimate                           Percentage of
  Project Components and Activities                       Estimates (US$,
                                           (US$,                             Appraisal
                                                              million)
                                          million)
Prevention
Community mobilization and awareness           1.90             1.65             87
Schooling opportunities                        0.80             0.38             47
Radio programs                                 0.40             0.48            120
Subtotal                                       3.10             2.51            81.00
Assistance
Subtotal                                       4.30             4.20            98.00
Capacity building, coordination, and project management
Capacity building (including coordination)     0.90            1.49             165
Monitoring and evaluation                      0.60            0.81             135
Project management                             1.10            0.60              54
Subtotal                                       2.60             2.90           112.00
                      Total Baseline Cost     10.00             9.60            96.00
Physical contingencies                         0.05             0.05             0.00
Price contingencies                            0.05             0.05             0.00
                        Total/Project cost    10.10             9.70            96.00
Front-end fee Project Preparation Fund         0.00             0.00             0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.00             0.00             0.00
               Total Financing Required       10.10             9.70            96.00

(b) Financing

Source of Funds      Type of      Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Rates     Percentage of
                   Cofinancing      (US$, million)        Estimates (US$,    Appraisal
                                                              million)
Borrower          n.a.                    0.00                 0.00              0.00
IDA grant         n.a.                   10.00                 9.60             96.00
Subtotal                                 10.00                 9.60             96.00




                                              23
                                     Annex 2. Outputs by Component


In terms of intermediary results, the project achieved its target on all but one of its intermediary
results indicators (the number of children benefiting from vocational skill training). The
implementing NGOs found it difficult to find street children meeting the age requirement of 15
years to enroll in skills training. Many of the older youth are believed to live in group-houses that
they pay for by pooling the funds they earn during the day. They are, therefore, less likely to be
in touch with the centers run by NGOs.


         Results Indicator                Indicator       Results as of         Exceeds or           Results
                                           Target        August 31, 2015         (Below)          Achieved as %
                                                                                  Target          of Target (%)
                                              Outcome Indicators
1. Child protection committees
                                            75%                100%                                     133
that are active (Percentage)
2. Target households who
correctly recall key messages
about children’s rights from the            70%                 87%                                     124
campaigns financed under the
project (Percentage)
3. Children at risk provided
with education or remedial
                                                                5,529
education opportunities                     2,500                                  3,029                221
                                                             40.2% girls
financed under the project
(disaggregated by sex)
4. Street children offered access
                                                              10,057
to comprehensive support                    5,500                                  4,557                183
                                                             41% girls
services8
5. Street children having
restored relationships9 with                                   5,335
                                             800                                   4,535                667
their families (number                                       48% girls
disaggregated by sex)
6. Direct project beneficiaries
(total number, % female)
(a) Children supported per type                               15,586
                                            8,000                                  7,586                195
of services                                                  29% girls
(b) Community leaders and
                                             800               1,204                404                 151
authorities sensitized10


8
   Comprehensive support services include at least three of the following: education, health, shelter (may be
temporary), psychosocial support, vocational training, and family reunification.
9
  Based on the number of children giving or receiving at least two visits to/from their family per year.
10
   These may include neighborhood chiefs, religious authorities (pastors, priests), school principals, presidents of
women associations and other community-based organizations, and government representatives.


                                                        24
         Results Indicator                Indicator       Results as of         Exceeds or           Results
                                           Target        August 31, 2015         (Below)          Achieved as %
                                                                                  Target          of Target (%)
(c) NGOs and government
                                             650                503                 (147)                77
workers trained
                                       Intermediate Results Indicators
Component 1 – Prevention
1. Radio broadcasts on child
                                             600                596                  (4)                 99
protection (number per year)
2. Educational group discussions             550                488                 (62)                 89
3.(a) Child protection
committees established                      (a) 72             (a) 75                 3                (a) 104
(Number)
(b) Child protection committees             (b) 62             (b) 52               (10)               (b) 8411
strengthened
4. Community events on
children’s rights and parental
responsibility (for example,                 550                488                 (62)                 89
interactive theatre - number per
year)
Component 2 – Assistance
5. Street children receiving one
or more services from the transit                             15,586
                                            8,000                                   7,586                195
centers (number disaggregated                                41% girls
by sex)
6.(a) Street children benefitting                         (a) 1,660 (57%
                                          (a) 6,741                                (5,081)
from skills training; (b) formal                               girls)                                    25
or nonformal education                                    (b) 6,294 (54%                                 93
                                          (b) 6,784                                 (490)
(number disaggregated by sex)                                  girls)
Component 3 - Capacity building, coordination, and project management
7. NGOs/FBOs and specialized
public services supported by the
project achieving at least 90% of            70%               100%                 30%                  143
the agreed performance
indicators (%)
8. National standards for service
delivery to street children
                                             Yes                Yes
developed and validated
(Yes/No)
9. A national multisectoral
coordination committee for the               Yes                Yes
protection of OVC is established


11
  The number of committees operating, while slightly lower than the target, is equal to the number of targeted
neighborhoods.


                                                        25
        Results Indicator            Indicator    Results as of    Exceeds or      Results
                                      Target     August 31, 2015    (Below)     Achieved as %
                                                                     Target     of Target (%)
and operational (Yes/No)
10. A database established and
managed by DISPE, with
support of DEP, to monitor and
coordinate ongoing children’s
                                       Yes            Yes
rights interventions as well as to
capture the number of
beneficiaries per category of
service is established (Yes/No)
11. Annual evaluation of the           Yes            Yes
effectiveness and costs of
different prevention and support
services. (Yes/No)




                                                 26
                          Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.     Overall efficiency of the project is rated Substantial as detailed in the main text of this
ICR. According to the PAD, cost-benefit analysis at appraisal was not possible due to limited
available data. Indeed, a cost-benefit analysis would require data that are normally not available
even in countries with far more developed statistical systems.

           On the benefit side, one would need to consider (a) increase in lifetime earnings due
            to increased education of (former) street children; (b) value of improved health
            status both with regard to increased productivity and with regard to reduction in cost
            of care; (c) reduced cost of police and judiciary activity involving street children
            (arrests, jailing, trials, imprisonment); (d) reduced property loss due to street
            children’s activities (theft, vandalism); (e) reduction in health costs borne by the
            children themselves (for example, as consequence of beatings, sexual violence,
            pregnancies, HIV/AIDS) and by those aggressed by the children; (f) reduction in
            losses incurred by businesses as customers stay away if street children are around;
            and (g) reduction in the spread of HIV/AIDS.

           On the cost side, beside the cost of the program, one should add the earnings by
            street children (for example, most street girls engage in sex work and would
            therefore lose those earnings if they got off the streets).

2.     Lack of data does not allow computing returns to education, and reliable estimates of the
other costs would require substantial investment. Moreover, the project attempted to reduce or
eliminate conditions of extreme abuse and of substantive violation of human rights whose
monetary quantification would be arbitrary.




                                               27
          Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members
            Names                                     Title                             Unit
Lending
Lucie Lufiauluisu Bobola          Program Assistant                                   AFCC2
Bourama Diaite                    Senior Procurement Specialist                       GGO07
John A. Elder                     Operations Adviser                                  AFRDE
Astania Kamau                     Program Assistant                                   GSP05
Jean Charles Amon Kra             Senior Financial Management Specialist              GGO13
Anne Mossige                      Senior Social Protection Specialist               AFTSW – HIS
Maurizia Tovo                     Lead Social Protection Specialist                    GSP07
Lisette Khonde                    Social Protection Specialist                        GSP07
Supervision/ICR
Maurizia Tovo                     Lead Social Protection Specialist                    GSP07
Lisette Khonde                    Social Protection Specialist                        GSPO7
Jeanine Kashosi Nkakala           Team Assistant                                      AFCC2
Lydie Billey                      Program Assistant                                    GSP07
Philipe Mahele Liwoke             Senior Procurement Specialist                       GGODR
Lanssina Traore                   Procurement Specialist                              GGODR
Angelo Donou                      Financial Management Specialist                     GGODR
Bourama Diaite                    Senior Procurement Specialist                       GGODR
Pauline Bossuki                   Sociologist                                           DRC
Gilberte Kedote Housounou         Child Protection Specialist
Jean-Charles Amon Kra             Senior Financial Management Specialist               GGO13
Fanta Toure                       Social Protection Specialist; ICR team Leader        GSPO7
Catherine Gibbons                 Consultant, ICR Author

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
         Stage of Project Cycle                                            US$, thousands (including
                                                No. of staff weeks
                                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending                                               35.88                         303,096.28

Total:                                                 35.88                        303,096.28
Supervision/ICR                                       132.72                        617,406.43

Total:                                                132.72                        617,406.43




                                                     28
               Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results/Stakeholders’ Assessment

1.      On April 8–9, 2015, a workshop was held, bringing together 40 representatives of the
government and nongovernment actors as well as the Bank, UNICEF, the Embassy of Canada,
all involved in the DRC Street Children Project. The primary purpose of the meeting was to
reflect on the successes and challenges achieved by the project and to explore ways to prolong
the project activities beyond the planned August 31, 2015 closeout date. The workshop also led
to a formal request for funding by the project actors, who asked donors to approve additional
funding that would include a continuation of the activities started in Kinshasa and an expansion
of the program to other parts of the country, including the cities of Lubumbashi, Kisangani,
Mbuji-Mayi, and Kikwit. The additional financing would also reinforce the capacity of the
Ministry of Social Affairs, known by its acronym in French as MINAS, to provide better care for
street children.

2.      After acknowledging the slow start-up of the project, participants celebrated the progress
made in achieving the planned project results, both in the area of prevention and assistance. The
success in reintegrating street children with their families was highlighted. Concerning capacity
building for MINAS, the participants noted the national standards on working with vulnerable
that MINAS developed with project support; the training provided to MINAS’ 160 social
assistants working to serve vulnerable children; and the donation of vehicles, computers, and
other equipment to MINAS.

3.     Through group discussions, the participants identified the most promising interventions
under each component and their recommendations, should additional funding become available.
The team that worked on the prevention component highlighted the following three interventions
as most effective in preventing child abandonment:

           The Local Child Protection Committees, who are able to identify children at risk of
            abandonment due to abuse or neglect. These committees should be expanded to
            other neighborhoods and strengthened.

           The educational campaigns using different types of communication strategies,
            including radio, interactive theatre, home visits, and educational chats. These
            campaigns helped build awareness of the Child Protection Law.

           School enrollment for children at risk helps minimize the risk that children will end
            up in the street. Vocational training for older children helps them take care of
            themselves, which is particularly important for vulnerable girls.

4.     When asked how the end of the project would affect their prevention activities, the group
responded as follows:

           More children will end up in the street and those who have been reunited with their
            families may return to the street.

           Adults will continue to mistreat their children.



                                                29
           At-risk children will drop out of school.

5.     With regard to alternatives for assuring the sustainability of these gains that do not
involve new project financing, the participants responded as follows:

           Have MINAS take responsibility for the continuation of the program.

           Ask other donors to finance the project.

           Advocate for free education for all.

           Continue to strengthen the Local Child Protection Committees, using MINAS social
            assistance workers.

6.     When asked how to improve access to education for children living in the street or
otherwise vulnerable, the participants responded as follows:

           Strengthen the partnership between MINAS and the Ministry of Education and other
            ministries involved in vocational and nonformal education, literacy training, and
            civic education.

           Create new mechanisms to finance the education of at risk children as part of the
            new financing.

           Organize school canteens to help maintain vulnerable children in school.

           Assist the parents of at-risk children to start income-generating projects.

7.      When asked what strategies were most effective in reintegrating street children into
society, the assistance work group responded as follows:

           Adopt the five-step approach of Identification, Documentation, Mediation,
            Reinsertion, and Follow-up.

           Offer a comprehensive packet of services.

           Provide ongoing advice to the family and the community in which they live.

           Conduct numerous counseling sessions and mediations with reunified families.

           Make frequent follow-up visits to reunified families to ensure a sustainable result.

8.     Their concerns about how the end of project financing will affect the children they serve
included the following:

           The halt in the family reunification process




                                                30
           Destabilization of the children served by the existing centers and of the
            organizations that operate them

           Decrease in available services for street children

           Return of reunified children to the street due to the lack of ongoing financing

9.     Their thoughts on alternative ways in which the project could be continued included the
following:

           Request financing from the various ministries that are responsible for the well-being
            of children, including MINAS, the Ministry of Gender, Education, Health, Interior,
            and Justice.

           Identify other organizations that have financing and refer the children to be cared for
            by them.

10.   If additional funding were available, the participants working on the assistance
component recommended that it be used as follows:

           Assist the NGOs delivering support to the street children to start income-generating
            projects.

           Assist reunified families to start income-generating projects to minimize the chance
            that their children will return to the street.

           Support the family reunification process by giving them sufficient resources to
            finance their social needs.

           Involve MINAS social workers in the family mediation and reunification process for
            vulnerable children.

11.     Their thoughts about how to best improve access to education for children living in a
difficult situation included the following:

           Rehabilitate and equip Centers for Social Promotion and Centers for Integrated
            Social Action to deliver educational services.

           Improve the partnership with the Ministry of Education to ensure that children in
            need are accepted into their schools.

           Build the capacity of teachers so they have a better understanding of how to treat
            vulnerable children without stigmatizing them.

           Support and expand the centers that offer nonformal education designed to assist
            children who have dropped out of school to catch up.




                                                31
12.    Asked how a shared plan for delivering food, health care, and security to all street
children could best be delivered, the group responded as folllows:

           Put together a joint committee involving representatives of civil society and all of
            the ministries that share responsibility for the well-being of children, including
            MINAS, Agriculture, Gender, Education, Health, Interior, Justice, Planning, and
            Youth.

           Designate a point person in each ministry who can facilitate street children’s access
            to their services.

13.     A third working group explored the state budget and disbursements that go to civil
society organizations that work on social protection. They reported that in 2013, the state had
allocated US$8.6 million and disbursed only US$4.5 million to MINAS, of which 89 percent
went to pay MINAS salaries and 6 percent was disbursed as subsidies to the NGOs. When this
group was asked how it would use additional funding, if it were to materialize, they gave two
options:

           Expand the program into all communes of Kinshasa.

           Expand the program into other large cities in the country (Lubumbashi, Kisangani,
            Mbuji-mayi, Kikwit, and so on)

14.    The workshop ended with a session to identify short-, medium-, and long-term
recommendations to the government of the DRC and to the Bank. A summary of the responses
obtained is given here.

15.    Short-term recommendations for the government:

           Enter into a dialogue with the Bank to request phase two for the Street Children
            Project.

           Mobilize support from other financial and technical partners for street children and
            social protection more generally.

           Strengthen MINAS so that it is better able to serve street children, including the
            construction and rehabilitation and equipping of Social Promotion Centers, supply
            drugs and medical supplies to clinics that serve vulnerable children, and reinforce
            the capacity of the INTS.

           Ask the Bank for sufficient funds to expand the program to all the communes of
            Kinshasa and to other large cities with large numbers of street children.

           Provide MINAS will enough budget to sustain the work carried out under the Street
            Children Project.

16.    Medium-term recommendations for the government:



                                               32
         Provide MINAS a budget for investment in the reconstruction or construction of
          facilities serving vulnerable populations, particularly Social Promotion Centers and
          Old People’s Homes.

         Transform the Street Children Project into a national program to care for vulnerable
          children.

         Finance the new program from the national budget.

         Disburse the full budget allocation to MINAS every year.

17.   Long-term recommendations for the government:

         Develop strategies to fight the underlying causes of the street children phenomenon.

         Rehabilitate and equip MINAS’ infrastructure designed for vulnerable people.

         Improve the disbursement rate of funds allocated to MINAS.

18.   Short-term recommendations to the Bank:

         Provide a cost extension to the existing project for two years, to give the government
          time to take over financial responsibility.

         Maintain a dialogue with the government to expand the Street Children Project in all
          communes of Kinshasa and all large cities in the country.

19.   Medium- and long-term recommendations to the Bank:

         Provide financing to MINAS to allow it to modernize its infrastructure designed to
          care for vulnerable populations.

         Strengthen MINAS’ technical capacity.

         Strengthen the financing of baseline studies for MINAS to help it improve its
          programs.




                                             33
           Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     The Bank-funded Street Children Project was implemented by the government of the
Democratic Republic of Congo over a period of five years, from February 28, 2001 until August
31, 2015, with a grace period until December 31, 2015.

2.     During the implementation period, the project had to overcome a number of challenges,
including

           a complex institutional arrangement;

           the lack of project preparation funding;

           the project becoming active four months after approval;

           the DRC Social Fund’s decision to stop playing its fiduciary management role,
            which led to a restructuring of the project toward the end of the implementation
            period;

           the management challenges that the project faced during the start-up period;

           the turnover of key staff; and

           insufficient investment in capacity building for the project staff.

3.      Despite these challenges, the project achieved very positive results. Based on different
evaluations carried out, the project achieved most of its the outcome and output targets. Among
the project achievements, one can point to the delivery of a holistic package of services to 10,057
street children, the reinsertion of 4,099 children into their families, support to the institutional
audit of MINAS, the development of national norms and standards on how to care for children
living in a difficult situation as well as a national policy note orienting the social protection of
vulnerable groups, the construction of a modern shelter for street children, the construction of a
meeting room for MINAS, the rehabilitation and furnishing of existing street children shelters,
the donation of vehicles and information technology equipment to MINAS, and capacity
building for the social assistants working for MINAS and the implementing NGOs.

4.      The sustainability of the project gains will depend upon the creativity of MINAS and the
partner NGOs to raise additional funding to continue the project activities.

5.      Initially, fiduciary management was the responsibility of the DRC Social Fund, until
August 2014, when the project was restructured, giving the Street Children Project’s staff
responsibility for these functions. The project accounts were regularly audited. According to
supervisory mission reports, the funds that were disbursed were used in ways that conformed
with the Bank’s directives and with acceptable rules of financial management and accounting.
According to audits carried out by international firms, the financial reports accurately reflected
reality and cash management was in accordance with the General Accounting Plan of the DRC.




                                                34
6.     At the end of the project, a total of US$9,602,694 had been spent, representing 96 percent
of   the    approved      budget,      leaving    an   unspent    balance     of    US$343,797.




                                              35
                           Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

                  Democratic Republic Of Congo: Street Children Project

Hounsounou, Gilberte, et al. 2009. “Etat des lieux des interventions et intervenants ciblant les
   enfants de la rue à Kinshasa.” Mimeo.

Médecins du Monde. 2009. “La rue, c’est la chance? Enquêtes sur l’exploitation et les violences
  sexuelles des jeunes filles des rues de Kinshasa.” mimeo.

Ministères des Affaires Sociales, Action Humanitaire et Solidarité Nationale, Décembre 2015.
   Rapport d’achèvement du Project Enfants dits de la Rue (EDR), Version Résumée.

Ministères des Affaires Sociales, Action Humanitaire et Solidarité Nationale, Novembre
   2013. Rapport d’évaluation a mi-parcours des sous projets EDR.

Ministères des Affaires Sociales, Action Humanitaire et Solidarité Nationale, Octobre
   2015. Evaluation du projet Enfants de la Rue - Composante Prévention: Analyse de l’enquête
   de référence et de l’enquête finale.

Ministères des Affaires Sociales, Action Humanitaire et Solidarité Nationale, Décembre 2009.
   Project de décret portant règlementation de l’Action Sociale.

Ministères des Affaires Sociales, Action Humanitaire et Solidarité Nationale, Octobre 2009. Plan
   d’Action Nationale en faveur des orphelins et enfants vulnérables vivant en RDC (2011-2014
   PAN OEV).

Ministères des Affaires Sociales, Action Humanitaire et Solidarité Nationale. 2009. Rapport
   synthèse du processus RAAP (Rapid Assessment, Analysis and Action Planning)-RDC (draft).

Ministères des Affaires Sociales, Action Humanitaire et Solidarité Nationale. 2004. Stratégie
   nationale de protection sociales des groupes vulnérables.

Ministère du Genre, Famille et Enfant. 2009. Loi no. 09/001 du 10 janvier 2009 portant
   protection de l’enfant.

Moran, Ricardo, and Claudio de Moura Castro. 1997. “Street-children and the Inter-American
  Development Bank: Lessons from Brazil.” Discussion Paper, Social Development Division,
  Sustainable Development Department, Inter-American Development Bank.

Mossige et al. 2003. “Etude pilote de risques et de la vulnérabilité en République Démocratique
  du Congo. Rapport final.

Salmon, Lea et al. 2009. « Les enfants de la rue à Kinshasa.» Mimeo.

UNDP. 2008. Statistical Update, UNDP Human Development Report 2007/8.

UNICEF. 2006. Recensement des enfants de la rue de la ville province de Kinshasa.


                                              36
World Bank, May 4, 2010. Project Appraisal Document: Democratic Republic of Congo for a
  Street Children Project.

All aide memoires and ISRs for the Street Children Project (P115318).




                                              37
MAP




38
