OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
GRANT NUMBER H578-ZR
Agreement Providing for the
Amendment and Restatement of the
Financing Agreement
(Street Children Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 14, 2010
as amended and restated on ()Jfg   ,2014


﻿GRANT NUMBER H578-ZR
FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated July 14, 2010, as amended and restated on
OC,W    v ;a, 2014 entered into between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
("Recipient")  and   INTERNATIONAL        DEVELOPMENT        ASSOCIATION
("Association"). The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- FINANCING
2.01.  The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to six
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,600,000)
("Financing") to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02.  The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03.  The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
2.04.  The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.05.  The Payment Currency is Dollar.
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01   The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Social
Affairs, Humanitarian Action and National Solidarity (MINAS) in accordance
with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.


﻿-2-
3.02   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
4.01.  The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
Child Protection Law has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Recipient to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a)    The Recipient, through MINAS, has adopted a Project Implementation
Manual (PIM), including a Project Financial and Accounting Manual
(PFAM) and an Anti-corruption Plan, in a form and substance
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)    The Recipient has established the Project Steering Committee (PSC)
under terms of reference and composition satisfactory to the Association.
5.02.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01.  The Recipient's Representative is the Recipient's minister responsible for
finance.
6.02.  The Recipient's Address is:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Boulevard du 30 juin
BP 12997
Kinshasa I - Gombe
Democratic Republic of Congo
Facsimile:
243-880-23-81
6.03.  The Association's Address is:


﻿-3-
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable:              Telex:              Facsimile:
INDEVAS             248423 (MCI)        1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.


﻿-4-
AGREED at Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CO             O
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Authorized Representative


﻿-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the delivery mechanisms of prevention
and support services for Street Children, primarily in Kinshasa.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.       Prevention services
Provision of support to reduce the number of children in danger of becoming Street
Children, including (a) organizing and supporting networks of community volunteers for
child protection, (b) carrying out community awareness campaigns and media outreach
programs on children's rights and protection services, and (c) providing schooling
opportunities for children in danger of becoming Street Children (such as remedial
classes and vocational training).
Part B.       Assistance services
Provision of support to improve coverage and quality of basic services for Street
Children, in particular girls, including (a) enhancing and further developing health,
education, psychological and social assistance services; (b) promoting social assistance
services to support family reintegration (when it is in the best interest of the child on the
basis of international standards and the Recipient's law); (c) providing skills training on
children's rights and protection services to selected stakeholders including judges,
lawyers, members of the police force and social workers; and (d) offering vocational and
professional skills training and related follow-up services to prepare Street Children to
access employment, once they have reached the legal working age.
Part C.       Capacity building, coordination and Project management
I.     Provision of technical assistance and training for MINAS to strengthen its
capacity to: (a) develop standards for activities targeting prevention, assistance
and protection of Street Children, (b) improve coordination of the interventions
of international and local stakeholders in children's rights advocacy, and in
protection and support services targeting Street Children, and (c) monitor and
evaluate activities related to prevention, assistance and protection of Street
Children.
2.     Provision of capacity building activities for governmental staff and staff of other
selected interested stakeholders involved in the prevention, assistance and
protection of Street Children.
3.     Provide support to carry out Project management activities, including monitoring
and evaluation of the Project.


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I.   Implementation Arrangements
A.     Institutional Arrangements
1. The Recipient shall maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, a
Project Steering Committee (PSC), including high-level representatives of the
MINAS, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Gender, Family and
Children, with terms of reference, composition and resources satisfactory to the
Association, which shall be responsible for: (a) providing overall strategic
guidance for the Project; (b) validating the annual work programs and budgets of
the Project; (c) approving the selection of entities for the implementation of
Parts A and B of the Project in accordance with the PIM; (d) approving selected
expenditures in accordance with the PIM; and (e) validating the Project Reports
produced by the PIU.
2.     MINAS shall be responsible for: (a) ensuring that Project activities are consistent
with national policies and laws; (b) liaising with other public entities including
the Recipient's ministries in charge of justice, gender, health, and education as
well as the national police; (c) coordinating with relevant stakeholders involved
in the implementation of the Project; and (d) providing technical support as
required for the purposes of the implementation of the Project.
3.     The Recipient, through MINAS, shall maintain the PIU throughout the
implementation of the Project, with terms of reference, composition and
resources satisfactory to the Association, which shall be responsible for: (a) the
day-to-day management of the Project, including audits and management of the
Designated Account, procurement, monitoring and evaluation of Project
activities; (b) providing oversight of all technical, social, administrative and
financial matters relating to Project implementation; (c) following-up on the
orientations and recommendations of the PSC; and (d) preparing the Project
Reports.
4.     The Recipient shall cause the PIU to, no later than three months after the
signature of this amended and restated Agreement:
(a)    hire a part-time Internal Auditor whose terms of reference shall have
been approved by the Association and whose qualifications and experience are
satisfactory to the Association;


﻿-7-
(b)    hire a part-time Procurement Specialist whose terms of reference shall
have been approved by the Association and whose qualifications and experience
are satisfactory to the Association;
(c)    hire a  secretary-accountant with  qualifications and  experience
satisfactory to the Association.
B.     Anti-Corruption
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Anti-Corruption Plan.
C.     Project Annual Work Plans
1.    The Recipient shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than October 31 each year
throughout the implementation of the Project, a plan of activities proposed for
inclusion in the Project for the following calendar year, together with a budget
for such activities and a timetable for their implementation (the Annual Work
Plan).
2.     The Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on such proposed plan
not later than December 15 each year throughout the implementation of the
Project, and shall thereafter adopt, and carry out such plan for such following
calendar year as shall have been approved by the Association and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend, abrogate,
waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or
any provision thereof, without the prior written agreement of the Association.
3.     Only each such Annual Work Plan of activities as shall have been approved by
the Association shall be eligible for inclusion in the Project and financing out of
the proceeds of the Financing.
D.     Manuals
1.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the PIM, including the PFAM, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, not amend, abrogate, waive, or permit to be
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision of either
one thereof, without the prior written agreement of the Association.
2.    In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the PIM and those of this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.


﻿-8-
E.     Part A (a) of the Project
1.     For the purposes of facilitating and monitoring the implementation of Part A (a)
of the Project, the Recipient shall ensure, through MINAS, that the networks of
community volunteers for child protection are organized and supported under this
Part of the Project, in accordance with the criteria and conditions set forth in the
PIM. The latter will be in charge of facilitating communication in the community
(including information and sensitization of community members about children's
rights and child development) and shall serve as the primary link of the
community to child protection services offered by specialized non-governmental
organizations and public entities (including identification of families and children
at risk of becoming Street Children).
2.     The Recipient shall ensure that social inspectors, social workers and community
organizers are involved in the implementation and monitoring of Part A (a) of the
Project to identify, screen, train, supervise and help organize individuals
interested in volunteering, in accordance with the criteria and conditions set forth
in the PIM.
Section II.   Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A.     Project Reports
1.     The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, or such period
agreed with the Association, and shall be furnished to the Association not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2.     For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date.
B.     Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1.     The Recipient shall establish not later than three months following the
Effectiveness Date and thereafter maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system (including related staff, software and an internal auditor) in
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
2.     Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association.
3.     The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under
the Project. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of such
period.
4.     The Recipient shall by not later than three months following the Effectiveness
Date, or any other later date agreed with the Association, contract an external
auditor under terms and conditions and with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association.
Section III.  Procurement
A.     General
1.     Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2.     Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3.     Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.    International Competitive Bidding.   Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.


﻿- 10-
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding
(b) Shopping
(c) Procurement from UN Agencies
(d) Direct Contracting
C.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1.     Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(b) Quality-based Selection
(c) Selection under a Fixed-Budget
(d) Least Cost Selection
(e) Single Source Selection
(f) Individual Consultants
D.     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Association's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the Association.


﻿- 11 -
Section IV.  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A.     General
1. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2.     The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Category               Amount of the      Percentage of
Grant Allocated  Expenditures to be
(expressed in       Financed
SDR)         (inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, consultants'     6,600,000            100%
services (including audits), non-
consulting services, Training and
Operating Costs for the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT                       6,600,000
B.     Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .    Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent may
be made for payments made within one year prior to the date of the Agreement
and on or after April 15, 2010 for eligible Operating Costs under the Project.
2.     The Closing Date is August 31, 2015.


﻿- 12-
APPENDIX
Section I.   Definitions
1.    "Annual Work Plan" means each work plan approved by the Association under
Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement for inclusion in the Project.
2.     "Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3.     "Anti-Corruption Plan" means the Recipient's anti-corruption action plan to be
adopted by the Recipient, pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, which
sets forth the measures and actions to be taken during implementation of the
Project with respect to disclosure, civil society oversight, collusion mitigation,
mitigation of forgery and fraud, complaints handling and sanctions and remedies.
4.     "Child Protection Law" means the law   adopted by the Recipient on
January 10, 2009 and published in its Official Journal of January 12, 2009.
5.     "Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
revised in October 2006.
6.     "Designated Account" means the account referred to be opened and maintained
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General
Conditions, Section IV.A. I of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, and such additional
instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (including
the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as
revised from time to time by the Association).
7.     "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association
General Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this
Appendix.


﻿- 13-
8.     "Ministry of Education" means the Recipient's ministry in charge of education or
any successor thereof, acceptable to the Association.
9.     "Ministry of Gender, Family and Children" means the Recipient's ministry in
charge of gender, family and children or any successor thereof, acceptable to the
Association.
10.    "Ministry of Social Affairs, Humanitarian Action and National Solidarity" or
"MINAS" means the Recipient's ministry in charge of social protection and child
protection or any successor thereof, acceptable to the Association.
11.   "Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses, based on annual budgets
approved by the Association, incurred by the Recipient on account of Project
implementation, management, and monitoring, including for office space rental,
utilities, and supplies, bank charges, communications, vehicle operation,
maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment maintenance, advertising
expenses, travel and supervision, salaries and statutory contributions of
contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, and
bonuses of members of the Recipient's civil service.
12.    "Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
October, 2006.
13.    "Procurement Plan" means the Recipient's procurement plan for the Project,
dated April 21, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
14.    "Project Financial and Accounting Manual" or "PFAM" means the manual
outlining the financial management and accounting arrangements for the
implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended by agreement of the
Recipient and the Association from time to time, and such term includes any
schedules to the PFAM.
15.    "Project Implementation Manual" or "PIM" means the manual outlining, inter
alia, responsibilities, procurement and  contracting  procedures for the
implementation of the Project (including the PFAM and the Anti-Corruption
Plan), as the same may be amended by agreement of the Recipient and the
Association from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the PIM.


﻿- 14-
16.   "Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means the unit within the administrative
structure of MfNAS in charge of managing the day-to-day implementation of the
Proj ect.
17.   "Project Steering Committee" or "PSC" means the Recipient's committee to be
established pursuant to an order or decision of the Recipient pursuant to
Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement and in accordance with Section I.A.1 of
schedule 2 to this Agreement.
18.   "Street Children" means children who are under the age of 18, living
permanently or temporarily in the street or in a transit center (as a result of
abandonment by family or absence of an adult family member to take care of
them) and who are no longer under the authority and responsibility of a legal
guardian, and this also includes children who are making a living lawfully or
illegally on the street.
19.   "Training" means the training and training-related activities included in the
Annual Work Plan, including seminars, workshops and study tours, travel and
subsistence allowances for training participants, trainers' fees, rental of training
facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials and other activities
incidental to the preparation and implementation of training activities.
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the
Association, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as
follows:
1.     Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of the
Financing of an advance made by the Association or the Bank ("Preparation
Advance"), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the
Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to repay
the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such
withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay the
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall cancel
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance."


﻿- 15-
2.     Paragraph (1) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 6.02. Suspension by the Association
(1) Ineligibility. The Association or the Bank has declared the Project
Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the
Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or
the Bank, as a result of a determination by the Association or the Bank that the
Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing
made by the Association or the Bank."
3.     The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a)    The term "Project Preparation Advance" is modified to read "Preparation
Advance" and its definition is modified to read as follows:
"'Preparation Advance' means the advance referred to in the Financing
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07."


