Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8135
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1898-IND)
OCTOBER 24, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Name of Currency: Rupiah
Rate of Exchange:
Appraisal - September 1979                       US$1.00   Rp. 625
September 1979 - March 30, 1983                 US$1.00 = Rp. 625-909
March 31, 1983 - September 11, 1986              US$1.00 = Rp. 909-1100
September 12, 1986 - present                    US$1.00   Rp. 1640-1750
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
GOI: April 1 - March 31
PTPs:  January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
Agraria             - Government Land Survey and Mapping Agency
BRI                - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CWCs               - Coconut Working Centers
Dit-GenE            - Directorate General of Estates
DPD                 - Dinas Perkebunan Daerah - Provincial office
responsible for local tree crops program
ERR                 - Economic Rate of Return
FAO                - Food and Agriculture Organization
GOI                 - Government of Indonesia
HIID                - Harvard Institute for International Development
HO                  - Head Office administering the project
NES                 - Foreign-assisted Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders Project
PLPT               - Field Extension Officer
PHU                - Project Management Unit
PO                 - Provincial Office supervising the CWCs
PRPTE              - Export Estates Crops Rehabilitation and
Replanting Project
PTP                 - Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan (State-owned
limited liability estate company)
Repelita III        - Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979-1983)
RSI                - Resident Staff in Indonesia
SAR                - Staff Appraisal Report
SCDP I             - Smallholder Coconut Development Project No. 1
SCDPU              - Smallholder Coconut Development Project Unit
SRDP               - Smallholder Rubber Development Project
TCSDP              - Tree Crop Smallholder Development Project (FY90)



THE WORLD BANK
Waihofi. D.C. 20433
US.A
N"d Of VtGv.Qngqj
October 24. 1989
NEKORANDUN TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia Smallholder
Coconut Development Project (Loan 1898-IND.
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Smallholder Coconut Development
Project (Loan 1898-IND)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II
of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a resrcted dWibution and may be used by fecipients on in the perfo_mae 
of their ofcl dutists contents may ot therwie be dibscld without Wod Bank autborntlo.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
IND(iNESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1898-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE ..................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................ii
PART I         PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.                          1
I  Project Identity -.-. . ..                                          1
II    Background ..............................................   1
III   Project Objectives and Description ......................   2
IV    Project Design and Organization               ... .   3
V     Project Implementation ..................................   4
VI    Project Results .........................................   5
VII   Project Sustainability ..................................   9
VIII  Bank Performance ..............................   9
IX    Borrower Performance ..........................                 10
X     Project Relationships .............................--. 10
XI    Consulting Services ............................                11
XII   Project Documentation and Data-.........................  11
XIII Conclusions and Lessons Learned for Project
Implementation ........................-------------------11
PART II        PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .15
PART III       STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                         19
Table 1.  Related Bank Loans and Credits ....................  19
Table 2.  Project Timetable-................................  19
Table 3.  Loan/Credit Disbursements .........................  20
Table 4.  Project Implementation ............................  20
Table 5.  Project Costs and Financing.......................  21
Table 6.  Proiect Results-..................................  24
Table 7.  Compliance with Major Covenants ...................  27
Table 8.  Use of Staff Resources-...........................  28
Map - IBRD No. 14886R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1898-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Smallholder
Coconut Development Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 1898-IND in the
amount of US$46.0 million was approved on August 5, 1980. The loan was
closed on  July  30,  1987,  eighteen months  behind  schedule.   The last
disbursement took place on August 7, '987.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Sumary, Parts I
and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started in March 1988, and is based,
inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee and Project
Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.
Following standard OED procedures, the PCR was sent to the
Borrower for comments  on August  2,  1989.    No  comments were, however,
received.



- it -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1898-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
I.       OBJECTIVES
1.       The project was designed to help the Government achieve its major
objectives for the agricultural and rural sectors (a) create productive
employment to raise the incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food
supply to keep pace with rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports,
particularly through development of smallholder tree crops; and (d) ensure
productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land, water, and natural resources.
The project aimed to assist Government meet its coconut development program
targets for the third five-year plan (Repelita III). The specific objectives
were to raise the incomes of 40,000 smallholder families, some 202 of whom
were in the absolute poverty group; increase coconut production to meet rising
domestic demand and to reduce cooking oil imports; and, to help buil.d the
institutional framework for the national smallholder coconut program.
II.      IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
2.       The conceptual framework of the project was sound and supportive of
the tree crops sectoral and coconuts subsectoral policy objectives mutually
agreed between the Government and the Bank. The project was designed to be
the pioneer of a series of projects to take over about 250 project management
units in twenty-one provinces which were performing unsatisfactorily under the
wholly Government-financed coconut replanting program, administered by the
provincial governments (Dinas Perkebunan) under the technical guidance of the
central implementing agency the Directorate General of Estates (DGE) in the
Ministry of Agriculture. The DGE was fully involved in project preparation
and appraisal and consequently had a good working knowledge of the scope and
design of the project. However, staff at the provincial level, had little
information about the project objectives and the details of implementation and



- iii -
they were poorly prepared and trained during the first few years of project
start-up to fulfill their responsibilities satisfactorily. Also, although the
credit institution, Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) was consulted during
preparation and appraisal its participation in the project was superficial and
inadequate.
3.       With the benefit of hindsight it is now clear that the scope and the
size of the project was too ambitious given the poor institutional and human
resource base for implementation. The coconut rehabilitation targets were
optimistic and the wide dispersion of the project implementation units across
too many provinces (six) made administration of the project extremely
difficult. The project was also poorly designed in respect of the smallholder
credit arrangements, the suitability of the project areas for coconut
replanting and rehabilitation, the inadequate ntumbers of farmers in many of
the project areas who met the eligibility criteria to join the project, and
the linkages between the project and the research agencies to address emerging
and serious technical constraints. It is unclear, however, whether delaying
the loan would have given sufficient time for the Government to address these
issues since many of the constraints were, and remain, deep rooted and
systemic to the tree crops sector.
4.       The overriding sho:tcoming in project design, which was a major
constraint to implementation, related to organization and management. The
project required the establishment of a new vertical administrative structure
from the DGE down through the provinces to the project units. However, the
new institutional framework due to design flaws failed to take hold quickly,
while the old structure based on the authority of the provincial governor
proved resilient. The staff of the project field units many of whom were
young and inexperienced therefore had divided loyalties, first to the
provincial administration, and second, to the new and unfamiliar structure
through the line agency to the DGE. With no clear and effective leadership,
there were no administrative and quality controls in place to achieve timely.
efficient and high quality implementation. This unhappy situation was
exacerbated by serious delays in the approval and the release of budgets by
the Ministry of Finance and of smallholder credit by BRI (para. 1.08).
5.       From the start, project performance ratings began to decline and
within eighteen months the project was placed on the Bank's problem project
list where it remained for about three years while the Government with Bank
support tried to restructure the project (paras. 1.08-1.11). In July 1985,
the Director General of Estates appointed a new, hard working and capable
manager who immediately started to turn the project about. He ordered a
comprehensive evaluation of the project which led to the introduction of far
ranging measures to reduce the project scope and size, the strengthening of
project organization and management and the Introduction of procedures to
address key financial and technical problems. By the end of 1985, the project
had been removed from the problem project list, the improvements in
implementation continuing through to completion, one year later than scheduled
(paras. 1.11 and 1.12).



- v-
III.     PROJECT RESULTS
6.       The quantitative objectives for the project were exceeded for the new
plantings of hybrids 1081 of target) and indigenous tails (139Z of target),
however, and they were lower than planned for the development of immature
talls (802 of target) and the rehabilitation of existing smallholdings (only
122 of target)(para. 1.13 and Part III Table 4). The quality of the plantings
was very variable, some 182 of the new hybrids (6,183 ha), 742 of the new
talls (5,865 ha) and 782 of the immature talls (2,180 ha) being
unsatisfactory. (Paras. 1.14-1.16 and Part III Table 6) The Government has
initiated a crash program to bring, where possible, the substandard areas to
acceptable levels (para. 1.16). In the meantime, about 652 of the project
area does not fulfill the criteria for the conversion by BRI of the
participants' credit from Government to the name of the smallholder.
7.       About 48,600 farmers participated in the project, considerably more
than the 40,000 farmers planned at appraisal. In the first three years of the
project, many of those selected did not meet the target grnup criteria as they
were absentees, retired government employees or ex-army personnel. Under the
improved project management from 1985 and with the demonstration effect of the
project, the number of farmers seeking to join the project increased so
rapidly that it was not possible to accept them all before loan completion.
8.       The economic rate of return for the project has been reestimated to
be 12.6Z compared with the appraisal estimate 19Z. The reduction from the
appraisal estimate is due mainly to lower coconut production estimates, lower
price projections than at appraisal, delayed benefits due to implementation
delays and lower than expected increase from food cropping. The financial
rate of return is estimated to be 20.62; no calculation was made at appraisal.
The agricultural techniques adopted by the farmers had a positive impact on
the environment (para. 1.19). The goals for institutional strengthening were
met partially (para. 1.20).
IV.      PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
9.       The project is sustainable in most institutional and technical
respects and is able to be replicated. The main concern relates to the
significant areas of project plantings which are substandard with potential
yields lower than envisioned at appraisal unless they can be successfully
rehabilitated through the special upgrading program. Proper functioning of
the extension service to assist farmers to maintain and manage their palms
adequately, particularly to achieve persistence of a correct vegetative cover
under the palms and to ensure effective pest control are also important
elements in assuring sustainability. The credit system is not sustainable
given the high administrative costs of loan administration, the low rates of
conversion by BRI of the participates' credit from Government to the name of
the smallholder and the possible inability of many farmers to repay their
loans under the original terms and conditions due to lower _han anticipated
yields.



V.       FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED (paras. 1.29-1.31)
10.     (a) The success of a project of this nature depends to a great extent
or. the levels of participation and commitment of farmers at all
points in the project cycle;
(b) It is preferable, where possible, to strengthen the existing
institutional structure rather than establish a new management
structure to administer a project;
(c) For the credit mechanisms to work, it is important to involve the
participating banks early in the design of the project;
(d) Close attention needs to be given during project preparation and
appraisal to the agronomic suitability of the areas proposed for
development;
(e) To assure timely, quality, and efficient implementation, it is
ersential that projects have a well staffed monitoring and
ev'sluation unit with clearly defined responsibilities and
reporting mechanisms;
Cf) The project implementation unit should have clearly defined
linkages with research institutions; and
Cg) Sound planning of the physical targets and the phasing of
implementation requires a realistic assessment of the absorptive
capacities of the participating agencies.



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1898-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I.       PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:  SM4ALLHOLPER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I (SCDP I)
Loan No.    : 1898-IND
RVP Unit    : Asia
Country      : Indonesia
Sector      : Agricultu-a
Subsector   : Tree Crops
II.      BACKGROUND
1.01     Sector Objectives:  The project was in direct support of the
Government's major objectives for the agricultural and rural sector. These
were, and remain: (a) to create productive employment to raise the incomes of
the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly through development of
smallholder tree crops; ane (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of
Indonesia's land, water and natural resources.
Policy Context and Intersectoral Linkages
1.02     Traditionally one of the major world suppliers, Indonesia accounted
for about 162 of world copra and coconut oil exports until the late 1960s.
The exportable surplus, however, was steadily eroded by the rapid growth in
domestic consumption which far outpaced the growth in production. From 1977
to the time the project commenced Indonesia had to import coconut oil and/or
substitute other oils to meet the rising domestic demand. Cooking oils, then
and now, are considered by Government to be one of the eight essential food
commodities with the result they receive high priority in the Government's
policy and investment strategies to ensure an adequate supply and low, stable
consumer prices. The expected rapid widening of the domestic supply/demand
gap for cooking oils due in part to declining domestic coconut production,
made the large-scale upgrading of the coconut subsector highly desirable.
This was feasible due to the development of improved technology and higher
yielding planting material. Also, since the coconut industry in Indonesia is
dominated by some 1.2 million smallholders who account for 982 of production,
and many of the palms on these smallholdings have reached the end of their
economic life, the Government felt the need to initiate a large smallholder
coconut planting program to arrest the decline in farm incomes and alleviate
growing pockets of poverty.



-2
III.     PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.03     Objectives:  The project was designed to help the Government achieve
its coconut development program targets for the third five-year plan
(Repelita III). The specific objectives were: to raise the incomes of 40,000
smallholder families, some 202 of whom were in the absolute poverty group;
increase coconut production to meet rising domestic demand and to reduce
cooking oils imports; and, to help build the institutional framework for the
national smallholder coconut program.
1.04     Componentss  The project was to be implemented over approximately
five years (July 1980 - December 1985) in six provinces: North, Central and
South Sulawesi, Lampung, Aceh and Maluku as part of the Government's national
coconut development program. The main components were:
(i)    Coconut Development.  Plant, replant, and maintain until
maturity about 37,600 ha (31,900 ha with hybrid planting
material and 5,700 with talls planting material) of small-
holders' coconut, including intercrops; maintain until maturity
a further 3,500 ha planted since 1978; and rehabilitate about
38,000 ha of existing coconuts. Under the project, three 180 ha
hybrid seed gardens were to be established to provide planting
material for this and future projects. To spread the benefits
widely and to ensure that each family could properly develcp its
holding, a smallholder family could receive assistance (a) for
planting. replanting and developing immature trees for not more
than 2.0 ha or (b) for rehabilitation of, not more than 5.0 ha,
or (c) if the maximum under either (a) or (b) was not utilized,
a combination in the ratio of 1:2.5 for planting to
rehabilitation, subject to the minimum of 0.5 ha for activities
in (a).
(ii)    Institutional Development.  Consistent with the Government's
policy to develop the Coconut Working Centers (CWCs), the
project was to strengthen 70 existing CWCs in the project areas
which were regarded as having the greatest potential, and
establish a headquarters unit and 15 provincial units (9 units
in preparation for a follow-up project). The project would also
provide training for technical and administrative staff and 168
man-months of technical assistance.
(iii)    Studies.  Three studies were to be carried out under the
project. These were: (a) a study of the copra marketing and
processing system, including development of coconut by-product
industries and P. review of credit, taxation and cost recovery in
the coconut subsector; (b) an enumeration of existing coconut
holdings; and (c) a feasibility study of areas proposed for a
follow-up project.



-3-
The project was also to provide credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) to
smallholders for on-farm development costs and to PTPs VII and XXVIII through
Bank Indonesia for the seed garden costs.
IV.      PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
1.05     The conceptual framework of the project was sound and supportive of
the tree crops sectoral and coconuts subsectoral policy objectives mutually
agreed between the Government and the Bank. The project was designed to be
the first of a series of projects to take-over about 250 project management
units (CWCs) in twenty-one provinces which had been established under the
wholly Government financed PRPTE coconut replanting program. These CWCs were
administered by the provincial governments (Dinas Perkebunan) under the
technical guidance of the Directorate Ganeral of Estates. Due to problems of
absorptive capacity and capability, the PRPTE program was considered
inadequate to the task of achieving the growth in the coconuts subsector
targeted for Repelita III.
1.06     The managers of the central implementing agency, the Directorate
General of Estates (Dit-GenE) were fully involved in project preparation and
appraisal and consequently had a good working knowledge of the scope and
design of the project. However, the Dit-GenE staff at provincial level and
the managers of the supporting central line departments had insufficient
knowledge of the project to ensure satisfactory project start-up. The views
of the provincial administration and potential farmer participants, also, were
not extensively sought during project formulation with the consequence that
important details of project design were overlooked. Although the credit
institution, BRI, was consulted during preparation and appraisal, with
hindsight, their participation was superficial and inadequate.
1.07     In retrospect, the scope and size of the project was overly ambitious
given the poor institutional and human resource base for implementation. The
coconut rehabilitation targets were optimistic and the wide dispersion of the
project implementation units across too many provinces (six) made
administration of the project extremely difficult. The project was also
poorly designed in respect of the smallholder credit arrangements, the
suitability of the project areas for replanting and rehabilitation, the number
of farmers in the project area eligible to joil. the project, and the support
for the project by the research agencies to address emerging and serious
technical constraints. It is unclear whether delaying the lending for the
project would have given sufficient time to address these issues since many of
the constraints were, and remain, deep-rooted and systemic to the tree crops
sector. A reasonable argument might be made that before commencing a project
of this type it would have been more appropriate for the Bank to finance a
lead-up project which would address primarily the institutional weaknesses of
the sector, the strengthening of the human resource base and better prepare
the provincial governments and farmer groups for their responsibilities in
project implementation. The Government at this time, however, was concerned
to take the advantage of the large increases in the development budget made
possible by the boom in oil prices to make investments in the rural sector,
particularly to expand tree crops production.



V.       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.08     The overriding shortcoming in project design, which became a major
constraint to implementation, related to project organization and management.
The project required the establishment of a new vertical organization with
leadership from the Dit-GenE through a project head office (HO) responsible
for implementation of the national program for coconut development by
provincial offices (POs) which in turn would supervise the activities of the
field CWCs. At project commencement the CWCs were administratively
responsible to the relevant provincial governor through the provincial agency
for tree crop development (the Dinas Perkebunan Daerah (DPD)), and for
technical direction to the Dit-GenE. Although the condition of loan
effectiveness was met requiring the establishment of the Head Office (HO) of
the new organization in Jakarta, the decrees enabling completion of the
vertical organization to the field level were delayed for almost four years
after project commencement. In addition, during this period, the project had
no effective leadership and there were no administrative and quality controls
in place to achieve timely, efficient and high quality implementation. The
staff of the CWCs, many of whom were young and inexperienced had divided
loyalties, first to the DPDs and the Governor and second, to the new and
unfamiliar structure through the POs to the HO and the Director General of
Estat'es. This unhappy situation was exacerbated by serious delays in the
approval and the release of budgets by the Ministry of Finance due in large
measure to problems defining the relationships between the project HO and the
DPDs, and to logistical problems arising from the wide dispersion of the CWCS
often in remote and inaccessible locations. The release by BRI of their
portion of the financing requirements was also delayed due to difficulties
resolving procedural issues and reaching agreement with Government on the
details of the terms and conditions for farmer credit, particularly the
criteria for loan conversion.
1.09     From the start, the project pertormance ratinss began to decline and
within eighteen months the project was placed on the Bank's problem project
list where it remained for about three years while the Government with Bank
support tried to restructure the project. During this period, the supervision
missions reported that the plantings were behind schedule and that the quality
of the plantings suffered from the use of unsatisfactory planting material,
the selection of unsuitable areas for planting, selection of unqualified
smallholder participants, poor land clearing and preparation, and
unsatisfactory maintenance standards. Procurement problems seriously delayed
the supply of fertilizers and agrochemicals.
1.10     It is interesting to note that a Bank financed project for
smallholder development of rubber, the Smallholder Rubber Development
Project I (SRDP I: Credit 984-IND), with similar objectives and project design
as SCDP I, which was being implemented concurrently with SCDP I, encountered
few of the same organizational problems. The main reasons for this appear to
be the narrower scope of the SRDP I project (it covered three provinces



instead of six provinces in SCDP I), the fact that the PMUs for SRDP I unlike
SCDP I were already established and reasonably well staffed before the project
commenced and, the leadership and management of SRDP I was much stronger than
for SCDP I in the critical, early years of project start-up.
1.11     The implementation of SCDP I continued to drift unsatisfactorily
until July 1985 when the Director General of Estates appointed the manager of
the SRDP I project to be manager also of SCDP I. The Bank supervision
missions expressed concern that the management of two projects would prove too
much for one person, but theiL fears were soon allayed when the implementation
of SCDP I began to improve markedly. The new, hard working and capable
manager made a comprehensive evaluation of SCDP I which led in September 1985
to the Director General of Estates approving far ranging measures to reduce
the project size and scope, the strengthening of the organization and
management along the lines of the SRDP I project and the introduction of
procedures to address key financial and technical problems. About this time
also (August 1985), following the updating of project costs after devaluation
of the rupiah, $21 million of the loan was cancelled.
1.12     At the end of 1985, the project ratings and key indicators had
improved to the point that the project was removed from the Bank's problem
project list. Discussions then began between the Bank and Government on the
conditions for agreement on an extension of loan closing to enable achievement
of the project targets. An action program was prepared early in December 1985
and an extension of loan closing was agreed for one year to end-June 1987.
The key elements of the action program were: an immediate review of the funds
flow problem for the tree crops projects (completed January 1986); a review of
land certification and loan conversion problems in tree crops projects; (made
partially redundant by significant improvements in the Dit-Gen Agraria
procedures about the same time); and, a draft plan and TORs for the processing
and marketing study (completed December 1985 - see Part III, Table 6D). The
final Bank supervision mission in May 1987 reported that the agreement to
extend the loan was well rewarded, the extension enabling the project to
achieve most of its planting targets, a program for upgrading existing
plantings to be introduced and the project organization and management to be
further strengthened.
VI.      PROJECT RESULTS
(a) Physical Progress
1.13     The main quantitative objectives of the project were achieved at loan
closing following a one-year extension of the loan. In large measure, this is
a great tribute to the motivation, the hard work, and the self-reliance of the
farmers who overcame the problems arising from poor project design, inadequate
and untimely delivery of inputs and services, and late receipt of their
incentive payments. Of the four principal project activities: new
plantinglreplanting of 32,000 ha with hybrids, new planting/replanting of
5,700 ha with indigenous talls, development of 3,500 ha immature talls and the



- 6 -
rehabilitation of 38,000 ha of coconuts on existing holdings, only the latter
target was not achieved (for details of planting results, see Part III, Tables
4 and 6). The key reasons for this were: (i) the ages of the trees in much of
the project area were greater than 15 to 20 years, the limit for rehabili-
tation to be economical; (ii) many potential farmers had holdings less than
0.5 ha, the minimum required for selection into the project; (iii) the credit
allocated for rehabilitation was often considered inadequate by the farmers,
particularly during low copra prices in the first years of the project; and
(iv) many of the coconut growers did not own the land they farmed and so could
not receive the land title required to secure the credit to be provided to
them. Even though implementation of the rehabilitation component did not
reach the SAR target, many of the farmers with over age trees did elect to
replant, even though they had strongly resisted doing so under earlier
schemes. It seems fairly clear that, had there been better surveys during
project preparation to identify the areas best suited for rehabilitation and
replanting, and had there been more effective extension work to demonstrate to
farmers the merit of rehabilitation or replanting, these components would have
been much more successful.
1.14     The project succeeded in the introduction of hybrid coconuts once
farmers were convinced of their advantages over talls (earlier maturing and
higher yielding) and they had received training in the new technology. The
density of the new hybrid plantings, in general, was satisfactory; 65Z of
surveyed areas having densities greater than 135 palms/ha, the standard for
conversion. Some 182 of the fields were below 120 palms/ha. The majority of
immature hybrid palms between 12 and 36 months had girth sizes above the set
standards. Hybrid palms already in fruit had potential yields well within, if
not higher than, the expected range of yields for their age. What was most
encouraging was the willingness of increasing number of farmers in the areas
surrounding the project to begin planting hybrids and to follow the technical
recommendations provided by the project extension staff. The proiect farmers
recognizing the prospects for sustained higher income using hybrids also
appear willing to buy inputs on their own account after the credit period
ends.
1.15     The quality of the immature plantings of indigenous talls were
generally poor because the project took over areas planted under the
inadequately-funded and poorly managed PRPTE program.  Surveys indicate that
about 802 of the area had palm densities less than 120/ha. Farmer and area
selection was poor both to the age and family composition of the farmers, and
the agricultural suitability of the site for tree crops. Also, the PRPTE
nurseries were producing bare-root seedlings at the time of take-over by the
project. The palms were also severely affected by the 1982/83 drought. The
situation was not much better for the new areas planted with talls, 752 of the
surveyed area having palz density less than 120/ha. The quality of the palms
in the areas which were rehabilitated were reported to be significantly better
than those for the planted talls, about 702 of the area having palm stands
greater than 120/ha (see Part III, Table 6A).
1.16     In view of the significant areas of substandard plantings (6,183 ha
of hybrids and 5,865 ha of talls) and the need to further develop 2,180 ha of
immature talls and 1,449 ha of the rehabilitated area, the Government has



- 7 -
initiated a crash program to bring, where possible, these areas to conversion
standards. The staff at RSI worked with Government to establish criteria for
the upgrading and to prepare the details for implementation of the program
which is due to commence mid-1989. In the meantime, about 65Z of the project
area does not fulfill the criteria for the conversion by BRI of the
participants' credit from Government to the name of the smallholder.11   It
seems clear that the terms and conditions under which credit was granted can
no longer be applied uniformly across all participating farmers. Credit terms
will need to be adjusted for many farmers, particularly those owning areas not
able to be upgraded, and in extreme cases of substandard plantings the debt
may have to be cancelled altogether.  The Government is acutely aware of these
problems and is working actively to find acceptable solutions. In the
meantime, many farmers whose fields are in production, but whose loans have
not yet been converted, have opened "Tabanas" individual savings accounts and
are depositing about 25Z of their sales proceeds to cover future repayment of
their loan.
1.17     About 48,600 farmers participated in the project, considerably more
than the 40,000 farmers planned at appraisal. Early in the project it was
difficult to recruit farmers who met the selection criteria since many of
those farmers who were eligible remained unconvinced about the project
benefits, and many more were not eligible because they farmed less than the
minimum 0.5 ha or had no land title. As a consequence, early in the project,
2,500 people were selected into the project who did not meet the target group
criteria as they were absentees, retired government employees or ex-army
personnel. With time and the demonstration effect of the project and the
greatly improved project management from 1985, the number of farmers seeking
to join the project increased so rapidly that it was not possible to accept
them all before loan completion.
(b) Rates of Return
1.18     The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project has been
reestimated to be 12.6Z compared to an appraisal estimate of 192. This is
above ERR of 102 generally accepted for Bank lending for the tree crops
sector. The reduction from the appraisal estimate is due mainly to lower
coconut production estimates, lower price projections than at appraisal,
delayed benefits resulting from implementation delays, and reduction in
benefits from intercropping, mainly rice, which were projected at 1002 at
appraisal. Only about 402 of the participating farmers intercropped their
coconuts. The financial rate of return is estimated to be 20.6X; no
calculation was made in the SAR.
1/ Original parameters for loan conversion included: stand per ha,
girthing, field upkeep, cover crop establishment, intercropping,
drainage, and erosion prevention measures.



-8-
(c) Other Qualitative Benefits
(i) The Environment
1.19     A recent study made for the proposed Tree Crops Smallholder
Development Project indicates that the agricultural techniques recommended by
the SCDP have a positive impact where the environment has been degraded (in
areas dominated by lalang (a grass weed) and with eroded soils) and that the
technology does not contribute, unless farmers are negligent, to soil erosion
or the deterioration of the physical environment.
(ii) Institutional Strengthening
1.20     The goals for institutional strengthening, in particular the
improvement and upgrading of the extension service to farmers through the PHU
system, were only partly achieved. The SAR planned for the establishment and
staffing of 15 provincial offices2/ which would enable efficient
administration of the project and centralized direction of the CWCs in each
province from the head office in Jakarta. At appraisal, it was felt that the
DPDs could not effectively handle these duties given their staffing
constraints and the heavy burden of their existing responsibilities. At
project closing only six POs had been established - one for each province in
the project. As described earlier (para. 1.08), the plan to introduce an
administration for smallholder coconuts development at the province level,
which was considered by many officials to parallel and perhaps duplicate the
responsibilities of the existing DPDs, resulted in serious organizational
problems which severely constrained project implementation. Also, the POs
which were established did not function effectively until the change in
project management in 1985. The new project manager conducted a thorough
evaluation of all aspects of project implementation following which
substantial changes were made in the project administration which improved
substantially its effectiveness and efficiency. These improvements have been
sustained and the new structure is being used as the model for the institu-
tional arrangements in the proposed TCSDP project. The SCDP project was
adequately staffed and, in general, had competent personnel in the key
positions after mid-1985. Since the project relied heavily on effective
extension to farmers, substantial effort was made in the latter years of the
project to train extension staff, CWC personnel and farmer leaders, although
shortages and delays in funding were a continuing constraint. The effective
training on crop protection methods and the preparation of an excellent manual
on coconut pests and diseases deserves special mention.
2/ One for each of the six provinces covered by the project and nine in
other provinces expected to be included in a follow-up project.



VII.      PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
1.21     The project is sustainable in most institutional and technical
respects and is able to be replicated. The main concern relates to the
significant areas of project plantings which are substandard with potential
yields lower than envisioned at appraisal unless they can be successfully
rehabilitated through the special upgrading program.  Proper functioning of
the extension service to assist farmers to maintain and manage their palms
adequatel;, particularly to achieve persistence of a correct vegetative cover
under the palms and to ensure effective pest control are also important
elements in assuring sustainability. The credit system is not sustainable
given the high administrative costs of loan administration, the low rates of
conversion by BRI of the participants' credit from Government to the name of
the smallholder3l and the possible inability of many farmers to repay their
loans under the original terms and conditions due to lower than anticipated
yields.
VIII.    BANK PERFORMANCE
1.22     The Bank strategy to assist the development of smallholders' tree
crops in the upland rainfed areas of Indonesia was, and remains, sound
practice.   The project design and implementation was successful in supporting
the tree crops sector objectives. However, the Bank can be faulted for paying
insufficient attention at appraisal to several important questions which can
be raised with the benefit of hindsight about the Project design:
(a) Proiect Organization. Was it necessary to establish the head
office - provincial office project administration as a non-line
agency (SCDPU) of the Dit-GenE instead of working to strengthen
and adapt the line functions of the provincial DPDs. As a
postscript, it is of interest to note that in 1988 the Dit-GenE
folded the SCDPU into one of its line units (the Directorate for
Rehabilitation and Expansion);
(b) Project Area. Early during implementation it became clear that
some of the areas selected for inclusion in the project were not
suitable for replanting or rehabilitation due to faulty and
inadequate site surveying; and
(c) Research and Technology. The appraisal team did not give
sufficient weight to the need for the development of strong
linkages between the project, which was introducing new
3/ Of the 34,350 ha of planted hybrids at August 1988, 11,204 ha were
eligible for loan conversion of which: 3,770 ha were in the process of
evaluation by BRI; 1,550 ha had been approved for conversion by BRI;
and, only 852 ha had actually been converted.



- 10 -
technology to inexperienced farmers, and the tree crops research
institutions. The lack of technical data concerning the
adaptation of coconut varieties or hybrid types to local
conditions and the absence of results from fertilizer and
intercropping trials in the provinces made it extremely
difficult to formulate sound recommendations to farmers.
1.23     Bank staff in the resident mission had a difficult task working with
the project management in the period to April 1985 to address the growing
number and the severity of project problems while the Project began to
founder.  Supervision inputs from RSI were heavy in these early years but very
little was accomplished. The persistence of the Bank staff, however, was
rewarded when the appointment of the new project manager led to a much more
effective collaboration between the Bank and Project staff. The Bank decision
to extend the project closing date enabled achievement of most of the
important project objectives.
IX.      BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1.24     The Project was identified and prepared by the DGE with FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program assistance. The Government participated in all aspects of
the appraisal and made significant inputs to project design and phasing.
During implementation, however, GOI's performance was weak in key areas: (i)
project management which was recognized as being weak from the start was not
strengthened until the project almost ground to a halt in 1984. The delay in
changing project management had serious consequences and led to poor project
implementation, supervision, and performance controls; (ii) throughout the
implementation period there were substantial delays in the approval and
release of funds for smallholder development. Often the funds approved in the
annual budgets were less than the amounts required to carry out the planned
project activities. Project staff and the smallholders on occasions went
three or four months without receiving their pay or cost of living allowan'!es:
and (iii) the level of cooperation and coordination between the project staff,
the Dit-GenE, provincial governments and other line ministries was not
sufficient to achieve timely and efficient implementation.  GOI and the Bank
have a continuing dialogue on the tree crops sector aimed at addressing the
systemic policy and implementation constraints to smallholder tree crops
development.
X.       PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
1.25     Through the staff of RSI, the Bank m&intained close contact with the
Government, in particular the Dit-GenE and the Project field staff. There was
close collaboration after April 1985 between the Bank and GOI and this
contributed in large measure to the solving of project specific constraints.
It also led to the opening of a productive dialogue on the more intractable
systemic problems of tree crops development such as rupiah funding, tree crops
credit programs and institutional organization which in many respects continue
to be a constraint to implementation of the tree crops program to day.



XI.      CONSULTING SERVICES
1.26     Consultants had an important role in the execution of the project.
They worked closely as a team with the project management and they were
largely successful assisting tnie transfer of technology and training their
counterparts. Their assistance was most valuable during the evaluation of
project performance late 1984 and early 1985 when the new project manager
sought to fotmulate an action program to get the project back on track.
Evidence of the consultants' good working relations with the Dit-GenE staff
and the benefit of their inputs to the project and other government tree crops
schemes was the decision by Government to extend their appointments from the
24-36 months provided in the SAR to project closing. These same consultants
are now preparing follow up projects for possible external financing.
XII.     PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
1.27     The SAR and the legal documents provided a useful framework for the
Bank and the Government during implementation. A number of key covenants,
particularly those relating to project funding, BRI's participation in the
project, the development of a comprehensive training program and the
completion of studies were only partly complied with by the Government. The
Bank supervision missions spent considerable effort trying to persuade and
assist the Government to bring the project into compliance on these matters,
but the problems were complex and in many respects intractable given the
limitations on the Government's development budget for tree crops development
and the over-stretched capacity of BRI.
1.28     Loan covenants relating to reporting the physical and financial
progress of the project and the auditing of project accounts were also only
partly complied with by the Government, the two main problems being the
substantial delays in submitting the documents to the Bank and the inaccuracy
of some of the data provided. In part these shortcomings may be excused since
a fire deRtroyed the SCDP's office in November 1984 with consequent loss of
most project documentation and data. The loss of this material has also made
it difficult to include in this report all the customary detailed information
and analyses.
XIII.    CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED FROM PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.29     (A)  Conclusions
The project targets for planting of hybrid coconuts and
indigenous talls by smallholders were achieved substantially by the project
closing following a one-year extension of the Loan. The rehabilitation and
replanting project components were less successful due mainly to poor area
selection at appraisal, the ineligibility of many farmers to join the project,



- 12 -
inadequate and delayed payments of cost of living allowances to farmers, and
weaknesses in the smallholder extension program. The quality of the hybrid
plantings was satisfactory for a smallholder development scheme of this type.
The quality of the plantings of indigenous talls and the rehabilitation of the
immature talls, was, however, disappointing. If the program to upgrade
inferior quality plantings is successful and the palms are adequately
maintained, the project is sustainable and replicable in physical and
technical terms. Given the credit conversion problems and the likely
inability of most farmers to repay their loans on time, it is unlikely that
the present credit system can be sustained or replicated successfully in the
tree crops sector.
1.30     The most serious problems in implementation were from weak
institutional arrangements and poor management at the senior levels of the
Project. The confusion and partisanship within and between the various levels
of government which occurred during the introduction of a new institutional
framework to administer the national and the project coconut planting programs
seriously disrupted the Project and gave rise to problems with project
funding, delays in physical implementation, poor supervision and inferior
quality work. This situation was compounded by weak project management and
the delays before the central government agencies took corrective actions.
The prospects for satisfactory implementation of the smallholder credit system
were reduced by the failure during project preparation and appraisal to
involve fully BRI in the details of the design and phasing of the project.
BRI was unprepared, and perhaps even unwilling, to join the project and it
appears to have made little effort to fulfill the role envisioned for it
during implementation. The success of the credit system was later undermined
by the extensiveness of poor quality plantings and the selection of
smallholders ineligible to join the project or receive new credit.
1.31     (B)  The Maior Lessons and Issues Arising from the Project
(i) ProJect Design
(a) The success of a project of this nature depends to a
great degree on the commitment and motivation of the
farmers to achieve the improvements aimed for in the
project;
(b) The institutional arrangements which were introduced
during project implementation were inappropriate for the
long-term development of the tree crops sector and the
decentralization of management necessary to deliver a
national coconuts program to the standards required.
With hindsight it appears the better strategy would have
been to strengthen and modify existing line agencies at
both central and provincial levels and to focus on
improving the linkages and coordination betwe3n all the
agencies having input to the Project. Given
Government's gradual movement towards decentralization
of many of the functions of the central line agencies to



- 13 -
the provincial governments, the institutional design of
the proposed TCSDP will need to contribute to the
strengthening and streamlining of the vertical linkages
from the central line agencies to the provinces and the
horizontal linkages within the provincial
administrations.
(c) For the credit mechanisms to work it is important to
involve the participating banks early in the design of
the project, to have their roles and responsibilities
clearly defined and accepted before the project is
commenced, and to reach agreement on the terms and
conditions for acceptance by the banks of the
smallholder loans before farmers are selected into the
project and planting commences. The experience under
the Project supports the need for the present studleb
being made in the Division to determine the most
efficient means for financing smallholder development in
the tree crops sector;
(d) Close attention needs to be given during project
preparation and appraisal to the agronomic suitability
of the areas to be included in the project for the
developments proposed. Similarly, social surveys need
to be made of these areas to establish the presence of
the target groups and their eligibility to join the
project. Accurate surveys of the project area, the
smallholdings and the farmers were not made in this
Project.
(e) To assure timely, quality and efficient implementation
it is essential that projects have a well staffed
monitoring and evaluation unit with clearly defined
responsibilities and reporting mechanisms. The present
Project initially did not; and
(f) The project implementation unit should have clearly
defined linkages with research institutions,
particularly when the technology is new and not tested
regionally.
(C) Institutional Development
(i) Institutional Capacity. During project preparat4on and
appraisal it is important that a realistic assessment of the
absorptive capacity of the various agencies, participating
in the project be made and that the project targets and
phasing of implementation be based on that assessment.
Similarly, the substance, timing and phasing of the measures
to be introduced to strengthen the institutional capacity
need to take as their starting point the current absorptive
capacity. This does not appear to have been the case in
this Project.



- 14 -
(ii) Staff and Management. Good project management and
qualified, well motivated staff are essential for successful
project implementation. Selection criteria for the
appointment of the project manager and key staff, the terms-
of-reference for their duities and the reporting lines of
responsibility need to be clearly defined before the project
is commenced and agreed between the Government and the Bank.



-    A  k                                                                                                                                                          -                              (                                                                          2
Eindo A,.i,               -~  -.JHAILAND                                                                                                                                           tl20  l'iPtNE.                                             INDONESIA
e .   r/    SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
2                     MALAYSIA                                                                        BRUNE I                              /                                                                               PROJECT  LOCATION
e   ti'odio                                                                                             4 .,        _ 2. ovaiii  ogiorwawaooi eEtt2^4                     *24                                                CoCosnut 44/rhing Contocs
I 04)4     IN2    4 ,",  o i04iE'A i                                                        Coootut Hybid S..d God.,d.
(  7                  01  444141                                                  -~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Nin.6otrno  bouodoro
MALAYSIA                                                                                              .4HALMAHERA
Vll YPO 0S,N,.APORE   _                                                                                                                                          2
K   A   i   I  M   A   N   r  A  NI                     .   -     -          '*
,  044)4404Flfil,  -                                                         n)G-                                                                                  %$ e
_ ;  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S/A                                                                                      EI    ''\  -,i_
2 ~ ~ ~       ~       ~        ~       ~       ~      ~      i^T 0~)2                                                                           lo    20 ,orovoO  .L2  soo Anton   72 400)0lO4E
4~~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~ 2_ _                                                                                                    8440004 _
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4>ee                                                                                                    42_24.4_4__0_iA4-
t*                                               10 00 44000,r  lXr                    13E                              135                               5E W
IAI<ARTA   ,J A W A                                                                              II   144100424                                                                                               1 A   ?1
AN~~~~~~~~~~4 -v.0                                                 o-Al'. 'A.r
K-4 1 DAAmTu ~            ~              D40O    l400'~0                                                                                                           8       22        20       4,        4 414
12                                                                            SIAMBA                                  130004,                                4    20         284                           484 4)404444444~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4LIUSIA"GE~ ~ ~ ~
280 4.44*440 40*0  it 444 a0)w..4 at 44..V ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~
JAKARTA            J         WA                                                             2.                               2                                2.                               224
D.,p.., ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ OO



