Document of
The World Bank                                COP
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    fILE
Report No. 2939-IND
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
July 7, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its conterts may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
SEiALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00           -  Rp 625
Rp 100            -  US$0.160
Rp 1 million (M) -  US$1,600
WEIGHTS AtND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)    = 1,000 grams (g) = 2.205 pounds
1 metric ton        = 1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)      = 10,000 square meters (sq.m) = 2.47 acres
1 ton copra         = 0.62 ton coconut oil (approx.)
GLOSSARY AND ABRREVIATIONS
Alang-Alang   A coarse grass (Imperata cylindrica)
BAPENGKO       Copra Management Board
BAPPENAS       National Development Planning Agency
BI             Bank Indonesia (the Central Bank)
BIMAS          Short-Term Farm-Input Credit Program
BRI            Bank Rakyat Indonesia (the People's Bank of Indonesia)
CE             Copra equivalent
Copra         Dried coconut meat (or endosperm)
CWC            Coconut Working Center
DGE            Directorate General of Estates
DPD            Dinas Perkebunan Daerah (Provincial Estate-Crop Service)
D x T          Hlybrid from crossing dwarf and tall coconut varieties
DTE            Dana Tanaman Ekspor (Export Crops Fund)
GOI            Government of Indonesia
Hak milik      Certificate of title to land
HO             Head Office
LPTI           Research Institute for Industrial Crops



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-2-
MAWA          Coconut hybrid, Malaysian Yellow Dwarf x West African Tall
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
NES           Nucleus Estate and Smallholders Project
PLPT          Field Extension Officer of Integrated Project
PNP/PTP       State-owned large estates corporation
PO            Provincial Office
P.T. PUSRI    State corporation manufacturing and distributing fertilizers
REPELITA III  Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979/80 - 1983/84)
SRDP          Smallholder Rubber Development Projec.t
TSP           Triple superphosphate
WAT           West African Tall coconut variety
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND  .1..  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Project Background .... . . . . ..                                      1
Agricultural Sector Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            1
Role and Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Food Crops    ..2
Perennial Crops ..                                                      3
Area Development and Transmigration   .  .  .          . . . . . .       4
Role of Government . . . . . , . .-. . e . . . . . . . . . .             4
Bank Lending Strategy ..                                                5
2.  THE COCONUT SUBSECTOR, PROJECT AREAS AND PROJECT FORMULATION .             6
The Subsector.                                                          6
Government Programs.                                                    7
Institutions Involved in the Subsector . . . . . . . . . . .            9
Coconut Research . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Bank Group Lending for Coconuts  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Project Areas  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    11
Project Formulation  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    13
3.  PROJECT  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    14
General Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Area Limitation  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    15
Project Phasing and Components .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Nursery Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Field Activities ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    18
Financial Assistance ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    19
Seed Gardens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Development of Project Organizational Entities .  . . . . . .    20
Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Cost Estimates ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    22
Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Credit System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Accounts and Audit ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. K. Arichandran, H. Matheson and F. Kilby (Bank) which visited
Indonesia in September/October 1979.



- ii -
Page No.
4.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTION . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
Project Management in Jakarta         .  .  .  . . . . . . . .      29
Head Office (HO) ...  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  29
Provincial Offices (POs) . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . .   30
Coconut Working Centers (CWCs) .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . .    31
Staffing and Salaries .   .   .   .   .   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)  . . .  .  . . . . . . . . ..   .       32
Technical Assistance ........ .   . ....... .....   32
Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     .  .  .  .  .  .    .....    32
Farmer Selection ....  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .    .......   .    33
Land Tenure. . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .                 33
Extension  .            . . . . . .  .  .  . . . .   .    .    .    .   .  34
Monitoring and Reporting ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  35
5.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION  ... .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    35
Coconut Yields and Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
Intercrop Yields and Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
6.  MARKETS. PRICES. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY  . . . .    36
World and Domestic Market Situation  . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
Marketing and Processing in the Project Areas. . . . . . . .    37
Study on Marketing, Processing and Cost Recovery . . . . . .    38
Farm Income    . ..38
Cost Recovery.. . . . .  39
7.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    40
Project Benefits and Justification . . . . . . . . . . . . .    40
Rate of Return Calculation            ..40
Sensitivity Analysis           . . . ...41
Risks                    ..44
Environmental Effects              .. .44
8. RECOMMENDATIONS  .......................    44



- iii -
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 3.1:  Estimated Phasing of Project
Table 3.2:  Nurseries
Table 3.3:  On-Farm Development Costs per ha
Table 3.4:  Project Cost Summary
Table 3.5:  Project Financing Plan
Table 3.6:  Smallholder Credit Terms
Table 3.7:  BRI Revenue under the Project
Table 6.1:  Farm Incomes at Full Development
Table 7.1:  Sensitivity Analysis of Project
Table 7.2:  Sensitivity Analysis of Hybrid Subcomponent
ANNEXES
1. List of Coconut Working Centers (CWCs)
2. Rainfall Statistics
3. Project Phasing
4. Development Costs, Yields and Revenues per ha
Table 1:   Hybrids Planting
Table 2:   Talls Planting
Table 3:   Rehabilitation
5. Farm Model
6. Project Staffing and Salaries
Table 1:   Coconut Working Center (CWC)
Table 2:   Provincial Office
Table 3:   Head Office
7.  Fertilizers, Civil Works and Equipment
Table 1:   Vehicles, Equipment and Civil Works
Table 2:   Fertilizer Requirements
8.  Project Costs
Table 1:   Summarized Total Project Costs
Table 2:   Summarized Nursery Development Costs, 1979/80 - 84/85
Table 2a: CWC Hybrid Nursery Model



-iv -
ANNEXES
8.    Table 2b:  CWC Tall Nursery Model
Table 3:   Summarized On-Farm Development and Seed Garden Costs
(1980/81 - 1984/85)
Table 3a:  Seed Garden - Unit Costs
Table 4:   Summarized Costs - CWCs (1980/81 - 1984/85)
Table 4a:  Incremental Investment Costs per CWC
Table 5:   Summarized Costs - Head Office and Provincial Office
(1980/81 - 1984/85)
Table 5a:  Investment Costs per Provincial Office
Table 6:   Technical Assistance and Studies
Table 7:   Staff Training
Table 7a:  Staff Training (Local Training)
9.
Table 1:   Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table 2:   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10.  Appendix A - Guidelines for Accounting System
Appendix B - Statements of Expenditure
11. Terms of Reference for Studies
12. Incremental Project Production
13. Economic Analysis
14. Selected Documents and Data in Project File
ORGANIZATION CHARTS
21555    Project Organization
21556    CWC Organization
MAP
14886    Project Locations



INDONESIA
SIALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
1. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
Project Background
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance
for development of its smallholder coconut industry, initially in the six
provinces of North, Central and South Sulawesi, Maluku, Lampung and Aceh.
The project would assist in establishing about 38,000 ha of coconuts through
new and replanting, rehabilitating 38,000 ha of existing stands, and
maintaining an additional 3,500 ha planted in 1977-79. The project would
also strengthen the institutional framework of the national smallholder
coconut development program and provide for staff training, technical
assistance, studies and preparation of future projects.
1.02      The project was identified and prepared by the Directorate General
of Estates (DGE) with FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP) assistance and
reflects the national needs and priorities outlined in GOI's Third Five-Year
Plan (Repelita III).
Agricultural Sector Objectives
1.03      The Government's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to:  (a) create productive employment to raise the incomes of the
rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder
tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land,
water and other natural resources.
Role and Performance
1.04      Nearly 16 million smallholder families produce subsistence and
cash crops on 16 million ha, while 1,800 estates occupying 2.2 million ha
produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil, and tobacco. Despite a 4%
average annual growth of production, agriculture's share of GDP has declined
from 40% to 31% since 1968, while its share of exports dropped from 45% to
37% due mainly to the markedly increased value of oil exports. Never-
theless, agriculture provides 80% of nonoil exports, and remains of
overwhelming importance to the great majority of Indonesians; nearly 80% of
the population lives in rural areas, and agriculture is the major source of
income for about two-thirds of rural households and one-tenth of urban
households.



1.05      Employment.  Agriculture's share of total employment decreased
from 69% in 1961 to 64% in September 1971, while in 1976 it ranged between
66% in March (the main rice harvesting season) and 60% in October./l
Nevertheless, agriculture remained by far the largest single source (with
46%) of new employment during 1971-76. Outside Java, employment prospects
in agriculture appear quite promising given the sustained increases in the
smallholder area, due to land and irrigation development, including that
under publicly sponsored and spontaneous transrnigration. In Java,
rehabilitation of irrigation systems, wlhich generated significant employment
in the last decade, should continue to provide additional construction and
farm work.
Food Crops
1.06      Production Growth.  Given its limited manpower and fiaancial
resources, GOI has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the
preferred staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production
increased rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irri-
gation rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fer-
tilizer and high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the BIMAS
credit program. The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. over 1974-77,
in the wake of severe declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on
private sector fertilizer trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall,
and unprecedented attacks by pests and diseases. In 1978, rice production
increased by 10% with better weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer
distribution, and nationwide Government distribution of recently-introduced
pest resistant varieties. However, preliminary estimates for 1979 suggest
only a 2% increase over 1978 due to poor dry season rainfall. Over the past
decade, output of secondary food crops (maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts,
and sweet potatoes) grew more slowly, at an average of only 1.6% p.a.,
composed of a 1.1% p.a. average decline in area (much of this land shifting
to irrigated rice) and a 2.7% p.a. increase in yield.
1.07      Demand-Supply Balance.  These gains in food output did not keep
pace with the 3.5-4.0% p.a. increase in demand due to rising population and
incomes.  Indonesia became the world's largest rice importer, with a record
import of 2.3 million tons in 1977, and about 1.3 million tons in 1978.
Simultaneously, wheat imports rose to 1.4 million tons in 1978, cassava
exports nearly disappeared, and soybean, maize, and coconut oil imports
began to grow. The "Indonesia Supply Prospects for Major Food Crops"
(Report No. 2374-IND of March 3, 1979) concluded that even with expanded
irrigation, and improved technology, extension, credit and marketing, food
production growth would not exceed 3.5% p.a., leaving a basic food deficit
up to at least 1990, with a rice deficit alone of 2-3 million tons.
/1 In 1976, shares were 63% in March and 57% in October in Java, and 72%
and 66%, respectively, elsewhere. The total drop in agricultural
employment from March to October was 6.Z million. Precise estimation is
difficult due to the surveys' shifting definitions and seasonal timing.



- 3 -
1.08       Future Strategy.  To keep rice imports at some reasonable fraction
of the world rice trade, and to prevent a widening food production-consumption
gap, productivity and area of both rice and secondary food crops must be
increased. In Java, rice-cropping intensity could be raised -ignificantly
through water storage projects and by exploiting groundwater. Rice yields
and cropping intensity can also be increased by constructing tertiary irriga-
tion and drainage systems, and improving support services. In the Other
Islands there is considerable potential for new irrigation systems, including
tidal and swamp land development. Despite the scarcity of high-yielding
tropical varieties of secondary food crops, yields of existing varieties
could be increased substantially by improved husbandry, including use of
fertilizer and pesticides. GOI is giving increasing attention to marketing,
credit, seeds and research aimed at varietal improvement for secondary
crops. Bank assistance for these efforts is planned.
Perennial Crops
1.09      Perennial crops occupy about a third of total cropped land (coconuts
and rubber account for 80% of this), and generate about 43% of total non-oil
export revenue. Smallholders cultivate 80% of the rubber area and virtually
all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper, whereas tea and oil palm are grown
primarily on estates. Despite recent higher world prices for Indonesia's
major tree crop products, only oil palm has shown sustained large increases
in production, due to investment programs by Government and private estates.
With the long immaturity of tree crops, static production levels are a
symptom of past low prices and neglect, especially inadequate research and
extension, and failure to replant with higher-yielding varieties.
1.10      Smallholder Development.  Efforts to revitalize the smallholder
tree crop sector are commencing on several fronts. One new approach, which
is being supported by four Bank-financed Nucleus Estates and Smallholders
(NES) projects, is for Government estates to plant and maintain tree crops
on previously undeveloped land for three years, using farmers selected to be
settlers (including local landless families and transmigrants) as employees,
and thereafter to provide the settlers with inputs, extension services, and
processing facilities. Tree crops are also being included in transmigration
projects. While the NES approach has been mainly for new settlers, GOI has
also initiated national programs, backed with credit support, to assist
geographically concentrated groups of existing smallholders to plant rubber
or coconuts themselves, with fairly intensive support from Project Manage-
ment Units (PMUs). This is the approach of both the recently approved
Smallholder Rubber Development Project (SRDP) and the proposed project.
Efforts to design a lower-cost system of tree crop planting with minimal
demands on management are also starting. Given the vast area of overaged
and low-yielding smallholder rubber and coconuts, the good market prospects
for these crops, and the Other Islands' land availability and natural
comparative advantage in them, rapid expansion of smallholder tree crops,



using all suitable approaches, is a high priority. As these programs will
place a heavy demand on technical and managerial personnel, major staff
recruitment and training efforts will be required.
Area Development and Transmigration
1.11      Java.  In 1978, about 85 million people lived in Java, at a density
approaching 650/sq Ikm. The island, with 7% of Indonesia's land area, has
45% of the cropped area and 63% of the population. Java generally has
higher fertility and better infrastructure than the Other Islands; however,
its cultivable land is almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds
cultivation already exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to
increasing erosion, downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and
irrigation canals. GOI is preparing watershed development and integrated
development projects to address this problem.  In addition, rural development
programs designed to meet basic needs and to generate employment and produc-
tion have been developed for certain critically poor areas of Java.
1.12      Other Islands.  In the Other Islands, population density is gener-
ally low, and undeveloped land is available. The primary program for new
area development there, as well as for creating employment and settlement
nuclei for Javanese migrants, is transmigration. An organized transmigra-
tion program is important for regional and natural resource development in
the Other Islands, production of food and export crops, and creation of
employment and improved living conditions for landless Javanese. Unfortu-
nately, this program has long been hampered by unrealistic expectations of
its potential for resolving Java's population problems and for stimulating
large-scale regional development, by overly ambitious targets, and by weak,
uncoordinated implementation. Confronted by management problems, GOI
reorganized the program in preparation for Repelita III, by transferring
implementation responsibility from the Directorate General of Transmigration
to the line agencies normally responsible for each sector. This measure
needs to be complemented by continued attention to technical and policy
issues including: (a) the suitability of the land for food crops; (b) the
role of tree crops and livestock; (c) appropriate target incomes and farm
sizes; (d) the extent of Government financial, marketing and other services
to settlers; and (e) the role of spontaneous migration. The Second
Transmigration Project (Loan 1707-IND and Credit 919-IND) is expected to
address these issues.
Role of Government
1.13      While the private sector should be encouraged to expand its role
in agricultural input supply, marketing, and processing, Government
bears the major responsibility for infrastructure, resource conservation,
and other services. Despite marked improvements over the past decade, overl
centralized procedures, weak regional planning, and technical and managerial
manpower constraints have impeded agricultural and rural development
planning and implementation. GOI's concern for area development has also



-5-
increased the need to strengthen provincial and local planning capabilities.
Future programs responsive to GOI's stated objectives will necessarily be
complex, requiring closely coordinated programs of agricultural research,
extension, input supply, credit, land development, transport, pricing policies
and marketing. GOI must therefore continue to strengthen its key rural
development institutions, particularly through the education, recruitment,
training and retention of technical manpower.
Bank Lending Strategy
1.14      GOI and the Bank generally agree on overall objectives and strate-
gies for the rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative
emphasis to be given to different investments, and on the technical design of
some projects, such differences are not impeding Bank Group operations
generally and are usually resolved by further analysis and dialogue.
1.15      Projects.  Since the first of 15 irrigation projects was approved
in 1968, the Bank Group's agricultural lending has rapidly expanded to
include estate and smallholder tree crops, fertilizer production and
distribution, sugar, livestock, fisheries, research, extension, training,
seeds, transmigration, integrated rural development, and resource survey and
mapping. The Operations Evaluation Department's Sector Operations Review of
Bank Group agricultural lending in Indonesia (Report No. 2166, dated August
9, 1978) concluded that despite deficiencies in some projects, the Bank's
portfolio in Indonesian agriculture was "of overall good quality and likely
to contribute substantially to increased production." Within the context of
GOI's agricultural strategy, future Bank lending is expected to focus on:
(a) a diversified irrigation, flood protection, drainage and
swamp reclamation program to intensify rice cropping on Java
and to improve water management in the Other Islands;
(b) smallholder tree crop planting programs; and
(c) area development projects aimed at (i) watershed management to
conserve soil and ensure long-term productivity in the densely
populated areas of Java, (ii) integrated rural development of poor
areas on Java, and (iii) transmigration.
1.16      Sector Work.  These projects have been and will continue to be
complemented by extensive sector work. Analyses of employment and income
distribution, irrigation, agricultural support services, and food crop
production have improved the Bank's understanding of the sector's needs and
of GOI's policies. A study of the edible oils market in Indonesia and
reviews of the rubber subsector, the transmigration program, secondary food
crops, and the supply and requirements of technical and managerial manpower
for agriculture are underway.



- 6 -
2. THE COCONUT SUBSECTOR, PROJECT AREAS AND PROJECT FORMULATION
The Subsector
2.01      The Indonesian coconut industry, the second largest producer after
the Philippines, is dominated by smallholders./l Output is produced either
as a sole crop - mainly in the Other Islands - or in conjunction with other
crops, as in Java.  The large local demand for coconut products is mainly
for cooking oil or fresh consumption. Although Indonesian exports accounted
for about 16% of world copra and coconut oil exports in the late 1960s,
current production cannot totally satisfy local demand due to low
productivity and increasing local consumption. Since 1977 the country had
to import coconut oil and/or substitute other oils to meet the rising
domestic demand and this shortfall is expected to increase rapidly.
2.02      The total area under coconuts in 1977 is estimated at 2.4 million
ha (including 0.6 million ha of immature trees) and production at 1.5 mil-
lion tons copra equivalent (CE)./2 The overall average yield is 0.8 tons/ha.
Sulawesi, with 21% of the coconut area accounted for 30% of output, while
Java, which has the largest area planted (31%), produced 24% of the output.
Sumatra was third with 26% of area and 22% of production. Average regional
yields ranged from 1.4 tons CE per ha in Central Sulawesi and Maluku to
0.5 tons CE in Irian Jaya and West Java.
2.03      Several fundamental problems have constrained the growth of the
coconut subsector. Although Indonesia has good genetic coconut stock this
has only recently been exploited to develop improved planting material
(para. 2.09). Poor crop management and the absence of a credit/grant
package for inputs, particularly fertilizers, have kept yields below
potential. Smallholder replanting is usually done on an ad hoc basis, in
the shade of existing trees (underplanting), resulting in a prolonged
immature period and decreased yields. Copra processing at farm level is
generally poor resulting in low quality case-hardened /3 or inadequately
sundried copra with high moisture content of 15% or more, necessitating
further drying by middlemen and/or oil millers. Marketing is mainly
organized by private sector merchants who also act as financiers. While it
appears that marketing functions satisfactorily in that smallholders are
/1 Estimated to number about 1.2 million families.
/2 Throughout this report domestic yields and production are expressed in
terms of CE of 15% moisture content - the copra quality normally sold at
farm level. Internationally, however, copra is traded at a moisture
content of about 5%.
/3 Rapid kiln drying (using coconut husks as fuel) causes an outer dried
casing with the inner copra inadequately cured.



- 7 -
able to sell copra, even in remote areas, there is little quality control
and the pricing system does not offer incentives to farmers for improved
quality (paras. 2.25 and 6.03-6.06).
2.04      Coconut oil mill capacity is concentrated in Java, the main
consuming area which in 1977 had 132 mills (out of 415 in Indonesia) with
52% of total installed capacity. Most Java mills are inefficient and
outdated, with low oil extraction rates (para. 6.04). Unlike other Asian
coconut producing countries (India, Sri Lanka and the Philippines),
Indonesia does not have a well developed coconut by-product industry.
Little coconut shell charcoal is produced, there is no significant coir
fiber industry, and minimal use is made of coconut stems as timber or fuel.
Government Programs
2.05      Until recently, GOI assistance to the subsector has been confined
to rudimentary and ineffectual research and extension, and to marketing
policies with limited effect. Tax recoveries from coconuts /1 were not used
to develop the industry (para. 6.10). Unlike other estate crops such as oil
palm, tea and rubber, public estates have not been involved in coconut
development to any significant extent. GOI's present strategy is to
concentrate initially on increasing smallholder production, followed by
assistance for processing and agroindustrial development. Smallholder
production would be stimulated in several ways. Rehabilitation of coconut
holdings with productive trees through fertilizing, pest control and
improved field maintenance will provide a substantial increase in
production. At the same time, holdings with unproductive old trees will be
replanted and suitable areas in the Other Islands newly planted with
high-yielding planting material.
2.06      In the first Five Year Development Plan (Pelita 1) GOI supported
coconut development through free seedling distribution by the Provincial
Estate Crop Services (Dinas Perkebunan Daerah-DPDs). Under Repelita II
250 Project Management Units or Coconut Working Centers (CWCs) were
established in 21 provinces outside of Java (see Annex 1) during 1975-77.
Java was excluded because of its limited potential for new planting and
replanting. Each CWC covers about 3,000 ha of coconuts within a subdistrict
(kecamatan), and is responsible for assisting smallholders in rehabilitating
or planting/replanting about 10% of the coconut area annually. The CWCs
provide selected planting material and extension advice. Although
575,000 ha were planted under such schemes /2 during Pelita I and II, only an
/1   Ipeda - land tax on productive trees (Rp 40/tree/year); DRK - a
copra tax of Rp 3/kg imposed by BAPENGKO (the Copra Management Board)
on wholesalers; and two other copra taxes - MPO (income tax), and
MPS (other taxes), paid as revenue to the local government.
/2 Including spontaneous plantings outside the CWC areas.



-8-
estimated 60% survived. The low survival rate was caused by poor nursery
selection and substandard material. Also, due to the absence of credit and
fertilizers and inadequate maintenance, the quality of plantings was gen-
erally low, and no rehabilitation of existing holdings took place.
2.07      During Repelita III (1979/80-1983/84) the Government plans to
assist the planting and replanting of some 310,000 ha of coconuts, 83,000 ha
with hybrid /1 planting material and the balance with local tall varieties,
and to rehabilitate 75,000 ha./2 Hybrids would be planted initially in
selected areas with high potential. The Government also decided in 1979 to
finance the field development costs of smallholders participating in the CWC
program (and other tree crop planting programs) through a credit scheme
administered by the Bank Indonesia (BI) and the Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI).
2.08      The effective implementation of these proposals will require
substantial changes and improvement in organizational arrangements including
increases in CWC staff and technical training. Since the CWCs are dispersed
within the provinces,/3 provincial supervision and coordination are
essential.  DPDs, which now are responsible for managing the CWCs at the
provincial level, do not have adequate capacity for this. Effective
management of the national smallholder coconut development program would
require establishment of organizational units committed to the program at
both provincial and national levels (paras. 4.02-4.03).
2.09      Hybrid Seed Gardens.  Developing domestic sources of supply of
improved coconut planting material is an important part of the national pro-
gram. Government estates have been leading agencies in this effort. Seed
gardens were set up in PNP X (Lampung) in 1974 with IDA assistance (para.
2.16) and in PTP VI (North Sumatra) in 1977, to produce high yielding
planting material by crossing Malaysian yellow and red dwarfs, and Indonesian
Nias yellow dwarfs (as mother palms), with pollen from selected West African
Tall (WAT) palms from Ivory Coast. Additional seed gardens have been set up
by the Lembaga Penelitian Tanaman Industri (LPTI - Research Institute for
Industrial Crops) in four other locations. They will produce dwarf x tall
hybrids using Nias yellow dwarfs and three local tall varieties /4 selected
on yield and nut characteristics based on a germ plasm survey; and tall x tall
/1 Proven hybrid crosses between dwarf and tall varieties are precocious
and high yielding under good management conditions.
/2 Longer term plans are to plant/replant more than a million ha, mostly
with high yielding material, and rehabilitate a similar area, over the
next 15 years.
/3 There are 37 CWCs in North Sulawesi, and at least 8 each in 13 other
provinces.
/4 Tenga from North Sulawesi, Palu from Central Sulawesi and Bali from
Central Java and Bali.



hybrids based on the same varieties. LPTI hybrids have not yet been tested
adequately. The Ministry of Agriculture plans to transfer the management of
the LPTI seed garden in Bone Bone (South Sulawesi) to PTP VI to produce
hybrids, initially by using pollen from WAT.
2.10      In the promotion and extension of coconut varieties to smallholders
a careful balance must be struck between the recently developed exotic
hybrids and local varieties. Under favorable soil and climatic conditions
and with good husbandry, proven exotic hybrids such as the Malaysian
Yellow Dwarf x West African Tall (MIAWA) hybrid cross will heavily outyield
traditional talls. However, their performance in more marginal environments,
such as tidal swamp or low rainfall areas, has not been tested adequately,
and local varieties may be preferable under these conditions./l
Institutions Involved in the Subsector
2.11      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is made up of five Directorates
General - Estates, Fisheries, Food Crops, Forestry and Livestock - plus the
Agency for Agricultural Research and Development, the Agency for
(Agricultural) Education and Training, and Mfinisterial support staff. The
Directorate General of Estates (DGE) regulates private estates and
smallholdings involving tree crops and industrial crops, which include
rubber, coconuts, oil palm, tea, coffee, sugar, tobacco, and spices. DGE
has five directorates in Jakarta: Planning, Production, MIeans of
Production, Rehabilitation and Development, and Plant Protection. The
increasing number of externally-financed DGE projects has put considerable
strain on these directorates and project implementation delays have
resulted. To counter this, DGE recently created a Special Team for
Externally-Assisted Projects, to provide technical assistance to project
units on procurement, budgeting, recruitment, project start-up activities
and legal matters.
2.12      Development activities at provincial and district levels are
handled by the Provincial Estate Crop Services (Dinas Perkebunan Daerah -
DPDs). The DPDs are responsible technicaly to the DGE but administratively
to the provincial governments. Extension service for tree crop small-
holders, except for the intensive development work of the CWCs, is limited
by the quantity and quality of DPD personnel.
2.13      Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) is the Government commercial bank for
the agricultural and rural sector, with an extensive network of branches and
units reaching down to the village level. It provides long-term credit
under the Smallholders and Private Estates Tea Project (Credit 400-IND) and
the Fisheries Credit Project (Credit 480-IND). It also serves as an agency
/1 In Sri Lanka, local talls and tall x tall hybrids proved more suitable
than dwarf x tall hybrids for planting under suboptimal environmental
conditions.



- 10 -
for smallholder credit for the North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project
(Credit 358-IND) and the four NES Projects.  It is the credit institution
for the recently approved Smallholder Rubber Development Project and for the
proposed Project. BRI is being assisted in term lending by a team of
consultants financed under the Rural Credit Project (Credit 827-IND).
2.14      BAPENGKO, the Copra Management Board, was set up in 1967 within
the Ministry of Trade to control the domestic copra marketing trade. Its
functions include developing coconut marketing on behalf of farmers,
regulating and controlling copra quality, and regulating copra transport.
BAPENGKO has offices in Jakarta and provincial capitals. With its limited
staff, it concentrates mainly on licencing inter-island shippers of copra
and coconut oil, and collects taxes of Rp 3/kg for copra and Rp 9.7/kg for
oil shipped. BAPENGKO also collects and issues price data for copra at the
farm, district and shipping points. In practice, BAPENGKO has not
controlled copra quality, nor made any major advances in copra marketing for
farmers.
Coconut Research
2.15      LPTI (para. 2.09), which operates under the Agency for
Agricultural Research and Development, is responsible for research on
industrial crops /1 including coconuts. To date, coconut research has
concentrated mainly on breeding, but it is important to broaden the research
effort to:
(a) determine effective fertilizer usage for existing adult palms
to rapidly increase yields;
(b) conduct trials in representative soil-climatic complexes
to evaluate different hybrids and selected talls;
(c)  determine suitable agronomic packages from nursery to harvesting
including effective weed eradication;
(d) determine viable mixed farming systems; and
(e) initiate research on processing technology to improve copra
quality and oil content.
Coconut research will be considerably strengthened under the proposed
National Agricultural Research Project, which would upgrade the existing
research institute at Mapanget in North Sulawesi and stations at Kayuwatu,
Pandu and Kima Atas (also in North Sulawesi) and provide manpower
development, technical assistance, scientific workshops, office equipment,
and vehicles.
/1   Spices, tobacco, fiber crops, and essential oils.



- Li -
Bank Group Lending for Coconuts
2.16      Bank assistance to the coconut industry in Indonesia has been
limited to: (a) technical assistance to PNP X under the Fourth Estates
Project (Credit 319-IND) for development of the hybrid seed harden (para.
2.09); and (b) planting of some 4,000 ha of abandoned rubber land with high
yielding hybrid coconuts under the NES I Project (Loan 1499-IND).
Project Areas
2.17      Location.  The project would be located in the six provinces of
North, Central and South Sulawesi; Aceh and Lampung (Sumatra); and Maluku.
The locations within each of the provinces, which are shown on the Map
14886, were selected in areas with established CWCs. The proposed
distribution of participating CWCs by provinces is given in Annex 1, and
summarized below:
North Sulawesi        24     Maluku             8
Central Sulawesi    12       Lampung            8
South Sulawesi        12     Aceh               6
Total                     70
2.18      Climate.  Monthly average rainfall for the project coconut
producing areas are presented in Annex 2. Total annual rainfall in the
range of 1,600-3,200 mm is considered adequate for hybrid coconuts in the
participating provinces. The project areas do not suffer prolonged
droughts, experiencing normal dry seasons of about three months duration,
and severe water deficit conditions do not occur except in Palu (Central
Sulawesi) and parts of South Sulawesi. In the Palu area, the presence of
adequate subsoil water from surrounding mountains offsets this deficiency.
In other localities within the project areas where average annual rainfall
is less than 1,500 mm, studies concerning the seasonal availability of soil
moisture would be required before planting of hybrids took place. Seasonal
temperatures are without marked variation, averaging about 270C, and wind
velocities are not extreme.
2.19      Land Resources and Soil Surveys.  Coconuts are grown mainly on the
flat coastal plains and broad alluvial valleys, although in North Sulawesi
and Maluku coconuts are also planted extensively in hilly areas at altitudes
up to about 500 meters. The main soil types in existing areas range from
relatively poor podzolics to moderately fertile coastal alluvial soils and
latosols. The more fertile soils occur mainly in North, Central, and South
Sulawesi and in Maluku. These are friable soils with good water holding
capacity, and moderate nutrient status. The inherently poorer red-yellow
podzolic soils in Lampung, Aceh and parts of Sulawesi are lower in nutrient
status and normally acidic. However, they are generally good textured soils
with moderate water holding capacity and free draining. Some limited soil
survey work has been undertaken in each CWC locality. The information



- 12 -
available would be utilized to classify the CWCs into broad categories for
crop fertilizer requirements. Modifications would be effected from soil and
leaf analyses under the project.
2.20      Land Use and Farm Size.  Coconut plantations are concentrated
close to existing settlements and CWCs in developed agricultural areas.
Survey information is available for each CWC on land use within its area.
In most project provinces, although replanting of old plantations is
required, there are still lands available nearby suitable for new planting.
Blocks of land also exist which have been cropped intermittently with food
crops and are now mainly under light bush or alang alang. In North Sulawesi
and parts of South Sulawesi there is a predominance of old coconut holdings
with palms well over 50 years of age, and limited areas available for new
planting in the immediate vicinity. Farm sizes vary among the project
provinces. Average holding size in North Sulawesi is generally larger with
about 3.5 ha per family unit, cropped mainly with coconuts. The smallest
holdings are in Aceh where the average is about 1.2 ha (0.7 ha coconuts and
0.5 ha rice lands). In the other provinces, family holding size is
generally intermediate between Aceh and North Sulawesi. An average farm
family unit consists of five persons, but in areas such as North Sulawesi,
some holdings comprise extended family units with larger numbers.
2.21      Population.  Except in Lampung province, there is a relative
scarcity of labor for casual employment in the project areas. This is
reflected by wage rates which are higher than the national average,
particularly in North Sulawesi (para. 3.10).
2.22      Cooperatives.  In some project areas, particularly in North
Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi and Lampung, cooperatives are involved in copra
marketing to a limited extent. They buy copra of 15% moisture content from
farmers, and re-dry to about 10% prior to selling to exporters or processing
factories. The cooperatives also have limited credit facilities to give
working capital loans to farmers. Typically, the cooperatives each handle
100-200 tons of copra monthly and offer comparable terms to local private
traders. Unless trade restrictions are imposed on private copra collection,
the bulk of project production is likely to be marketed through the private
sector.
2.23     Shipping.  Sea transportation is important for inter-island and
intra-island trading, especially for Sulawesi and the islands in Maluku.
Copra is carried by coastal cargo freighters of several hundred tons
capacity and by smaller sailing schooners.  Menado in North Sulawesi and
Ujung Pandang in South Sulawesi are sizeable ports dealing in copra.
Shipments are also made from smaller ports in Sulawesi, such as Pare Pare
and Polewale, and from Ternate in Maluku, direct to Surabaya in East Java
for processing.  Tanjung Karang in Lampung is also an important port with
linkages mainly through Tanjung Priok at Jakarta. Adequate inter-island
shipping for copra is available.



- 13 -
Project Formulation
2.24      The project was prepared as a "Hybrid Coconut Introduction Support
Project" /I under which a two-phased approach was proposed: (a) a first
phase three-year project to establish a research and training program;
distribute hybrid planting material for 9,000 ha in Lampung, North Sulawesi
and Mlaluku; improve copra processing facilities at farm level; and institute
monitoring and evaluation; and (b) a second project (credit and extension)
over five years to establish about 35,000 ha of coconuts per year with
hybrid planting material.
2.25      Subsequently these proposals were revised to cover more provinces,
to include rehabilitation of existing holdings and limited planting of
talls, and to extend over a five-year period. It was also agreed that the
project should establish a suitable organization to implement the national
smallholder coconut development program. The proposal for improvement of
farm level copra processing facilities was excluded because of problems
inherent in the present marketing and processing structure (paras. 2.03 and
6.03-6.06). Funds are provided under this project for a comprehensive study
of this and other related subjects (paras. 3.19 and 6.06).
2.26      Planting Material.  During the course of project formulation
considerable attention was given to the question of the appropriate planting
materials to be supplied to participating smallholders. Conditions in the
proposed project areas are suitable for Dwarf x Tall hybrids, which will be
used wherever possible. Although there is little experience with such
hybrids under smallholder conditions,/2 proven hybrids are expected to
perform well with reasonable management standards. The MAWA hybrids have
performed well in the Ivory Coast, Malaysia and the Philippines under good
management and initial reports of MAWA plantings in Indonesia are favorable.
However, as this material has been introduced into Indonesia only recently,
the field management experience is limited, and because of limited supplies
during the early years of the project, the hybrids will be introduced on a
phased basis. Although some disease (spear rot/dry bud rot) /3 has been
reported in Ivory Coast, Malaysia, North Sumatra and West Java, it is not
considered to be related to characteristics of this planting material. The
continued distribution of local tall seedlings solely for new planting (with
credit for inputs, etc.) would be supported on a limited scale in project
areas until the introduction of hybrids.
/1   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Report No. 3/78 IND of January 13,
1978.
/2   Most experience to date has been on commercial estates.
/3   More recently, this disease has been referred to as coconut stem
necrosis.



- 14 -
3. THE PROJECT
General Description
3.01       The proposed project would be implemented in the provinces of
North, Central and South Sulawesi, Lampung, Aceh and Maluku, as part of
GOI's national coconut development program. The project would comprise:
(a)  new planting and replanting of about 32,000 ha with hybrid
planting material with initial emphasis on new planting
(para. 3.03b);
(b)  new planting about 5,700 ha with indigenous tall material
(para. 3.03c);
(c)  development of about 3,500 ha of immature talls (para. 3.03d);
(d)  rehabilitation of about 38,000 ha of existing coconuts
(para. 3.03e);
(e)  establishing three 180 ha hybrid seed gardens (para. 3.12);
(f)  strengthening of 70 existing CWCs in project areas, and
establishing and staffing 15 provincial units /1 and a
headquarters unit for GOI's coconut development program
(para. 3.13);
(g)  provision of civil works, vehicles and equipment (paras. 3.14 and
3.15);
(h)  training project technical and administrative staff (para. 3.17);
(i)  provision of 168 man months of technical assistance (para. 3.18);
and
(j)  three studies relating to the coconut industry (para. 3.19).
The project would also provide credit to smallholders for on-farm develop-
ment costs of items (a) through (d) above and to the PNP/PTPs for the seed
garden costs.
/1 Including the six provinces having the project areas.



- 15 -
Area Limitation
3.02      To provide a wide spread of benefits, and to ensure that each
smallholder can manage efficiently, the following limits would be set on
hectarage covered per family: for planting and replanting, al4d development
of immature trees, a maximum of 2 ha; or 5 ha for rehabilitation, since
labor requirement is low (30 man days/year/ha). If there is less than
maximum activity under either, an equitable combination would be permitted.
Assurances on maximum area limitations were obtained during negotiations.
The minimum area for participation in either planting/replanting would be
about 0.5 ha.w
Project Phasing and Components
3.03 (a)  Phasing of the Project.  Project phasing, which takes into account
availability of hybrid planting material and the capacities
of CWCs, is detailed in Annex 3 and summarized in Table 3.1. It
has been assumed that replanting would be undertaken exclusively
with the hybrids, on the following basis: 50% of planting in
North Sulawesi and 10% in each of the other provinces.
Table 3.1: ESTIMATED PHASING OF PROJECT /a
Total
1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85    Total
…-------------------------- (ha ) -…_______________
Planting hybrids    1,600    4,000    7,000    9,100   10,200    31,900
Planting talls       2,700    1,900       800      300        -      5,700
Developing talls    3,500         -         -        -        -      3,500
Rehabilitation       2,000    5,600    9,300   10,500   10,500    37,900
/a Reference to financial years in this report is for the period July
to June.
(b) Planting with Hybrid Material - 31,900 ha. Hybrids would be
concentrated in selected areas /1 of North Sulawesi, South
Sulawesi and Lampung in years 1 and 2 of the project followed by
/1 Localized areas with unsuitable soils would be excluded, e.g. areas
with high soil water table or impeded drainage, and very sandy soils
with poor water retention capacity.



- 16 -
Central Sulawesi, Aceh and Maluku in year 3. Initial emphasis
would be on new block planting /1 which would give favorable
conditions for the organization and supervision of planting
techniques which are new to smallholders. However, in areas such
as North Sulawesi with limited areas available for new planting,
replanting would be undertaken on suitable consolidated
holdings./2 For replanting, no underplanting would be allowed
and prior felling and disposal of the old palms would be required.
Individual CWCs would undertake a field planting program of 100 ha
in the first year of hybrid introduction followed by 150 ha in
each subsequent year. Hybrid seed nuts would be supplied from
PNP X for Lampung, North and Central Sulawesi and Maluku; from
Bone Bone for South Sulawesi; and from PTP VI for Aceh.
(c)  New planting with indigenous Tall Material - 5,700 ha.  This
component would support and improve the ongoing GOI program.
Seedlings would be distributed from mass selected nuts from local
plantations. To ensure the best use of CWC manpower, talls would
be distributed only in areas where hybrids have not yet been
introduced. Due to the enthusiasm shown for hybrids, demand for
talls is expected to be limited, and it is estimated that only
50 ha per ClJC would be planted annually under the project.
(d)  Development of Immature Tall Holdings - 3,500 ha.  To help farmers
who did not have access to inputs for plantings made prior to
1979/80 due to the absence of a credit system, assistance would be
given for immature trees through the provision of inputs provided
that reasonable standards of maintenance exist and progressive
felling and disposal of unproductive old palms is undertaken within
1-2 years of participation in the project, in holdings which were
underplanted previously. It is estimated that this component
would not exceed 50 ha per CWC; also, assistance under this head
would be given only during the first two years of the project.
(e) Rehabilitation of Existing Holdings - 38,000 ha. Although
there is little experience in Indonesia on rehabilitation
of existing coconut holdings, many countries have substantially
increased production in this way./3 For rehabilitation, the
/1 The minimum size of blocks for new planting would be 10 ha.
/2 Preferably minimum size of 4-5 ha.
/3 Rehabilitation experiments in India, Sri Lanka and Thailand have shown
yield increases of over 50% and improved copra weight of nuts in bearing
trees within 3-4 years after rehabilitation began.



- 17 -
health and age of palms, soil type, specific nutrient requirements
and drainage needs are particular factors which must be taken into
consideration. Holdings included for rehabilitation under the
-roject would be required to meet the following criteria: (i) a
uniform stand of healthy bearing palms (age not to exceed 25-30
years); (ii) a plant population stand of not less than 100
palms/ha, and not exceeding 160 palms/ha; (iii) current annual
yields in the range of 30-40 nuts per bearing tree; and (iv)
willingness on the part of the smallholder to undertake improved
weeding, pest control and field drainage as required, before
fertilizer is applied. Sample surveys would take place to
determine nutrient deficiencies using leaf analysis techniques.
The findings would be used to make modifications, if required, to
the initial standard fertilizer application. The rehabilitation
program would start in North, South and Central Sulawesi and
Lampung at a rate of 100 ha per CWC in Year 1 of the project and
150 ha/per CWC in Year 2. A similar target would be followed for
Aceh and Maluku, commencing in Year 2.
Nursery Development
3.04       Seedling nursery development and operation in each CWC area would
be supervised by a CWC assistant manager. Table 3.2 gives the overall
phasing of nursery development which is estimated to cost $10.7 million (Rp
6.7 billion) in March 1980 prices. The costs include: seed nuts - $3.8
million, salaries and administration - $2.7 million, and polybags for hybrid
seedlings - $0.9 million. Each of the 70 CWCs under the project would be
provided with a 60-70 hp tractor and trailer (para. 3.15) to transport
polybag seedlings and inputs to farmers. The tractor/trailer costs,
including running expenses are estimated at $1.1 million. If the purchase of
tractor/trailers is delayed, suitable transport vehicles would be hired by
the CWCs. Annex 8, Tables 2 - 2b give total and unit costs of nursery
development respectively.
Table 3.2: NURSERIES (Ha) /a
Year
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84            Total
Hybrids      16        40        70        91       102           319
Talls        13.5      9.5        4       1.5        -             28.5
/a  Output of 1 ha hybrid nursery = 16,000 polybag plants, sufficient
for planting 100 ha. Output of 0.25 ha tall nursery = 6,750
seedlings, sufficient for planting 50 ha.



- 18 -
Field Activities
3.05      Field development would be carried out in block plantings with
family labor in groups organized by CWCs. Local contractors would be used for
land clearing where family labor is a constraint. During a 4-1/2 year
establishment period for hybrids, about 360 man days labor/ha is required
for clearing, land preparation, planting ,weeding, fertilizing, pest
control, cover crop maintenance, etc. Of this, about 170 man days are
necessary in the first 6 months for land clearing, preparatory cultivations,
planting, and cover crop establishment.
3.06      Land Preparation.  Land under old coconuts or scrub would be
cleared by participating farmers, mainly by hand. The felling of old palms
and removal/destruction of stems would be done by farmer groups. Removal of
felled palms for sale for fuel or timber uses, or their destruction by
cutting into lengths, followed by stacking and burning, is important to
eliminate potential breeding places for the Oryctes beetle, a serious
coconut pest throughout the country. The establishment of a creeping cover
crop over the stumps would also be practiced to prevent coconut beetle
breeding. In alang-alang areas, contractors with mechanical equipment would
be an alternative for land clearing and preparation for planting. The costs
for any contractor services would be included in the farmer loan accounts
and set off against the cash payments in lieu of farmer labor (para. 3.10).
3.07      Planting and Maintenance.  Lining, holing, planting and field
maintenance would also be undertaken by organized farmer groups. The
planting density for hybrids would be 143 palms/ha, and during the 4-1/2
year immature period, a cumulative fertilizer dressing of 1.7 tons/ha would
be applied./l Good standards of field management are essential especially
during the first three years after planting. Attention would be given to
adequate weeding, particularly alang alang eradication, general field
upkeep, pest control and the recommended fertilizer treatment. Provision
would be made to supply replacement /2 seedlings for damaged or unhealthy
palms.
3.08      Cover Crops/Food Crops.  A leguminous cover crop would be
established in the first year of planting to prevent weeds, especially alang-
alang. Intercropping with temporary food crops, such as rice and bean crops,
/1 For talls, the planting density would be 120 palms/ha (to facilitate
intercropping longer with short-term crops, and subsequently with other
perennial crops); fertilizers amounting to 1.3 tons/ha would be applied
during the 6-1/2 year immature period.
/2 Field casualties are estimated at about 10-12%. Up to 17 polybag
seedlings/ha would be suplied as replacements in the planting season
following the year of initial field planting.



- 19 -
after planting of coconuts,/1 would be encouraged where family labor is not a
problem. The project would provide fertilizer, seed and pesticides for
intercrops on long-term credit, to ease the farmers' short-term financial
situation and to minimize administrative costs. Farmers would not be
permitted to grow intercrops detrimental to coconuts (e.g. cassava), or to
intercrop subsequently if weeds were not controlled. It is assumed that 50%
of the area planted (or replanted) under the project would have intercrops.
3.09      Intercropping with Perennials.  Interplanting with other perennial
crops such as coffee, cocoa or fruit trees to achieve intensification/
diversification of production from coconut holdings would not be financed
under the project. Provision of such planting materials is covered by other
GOI schemes, and coordination through DPDs and Provincial Offices
(para. 4.03)
Financial Assistance
3.10      Financial assistance would be provided on a credit basis to
project participants as follows:
(a)  for planting/replanting - direct on-farm development costs up to
the first harvesting year including land clearing, seedlings,
(exnurseries), fertilizers and agrochemicals, and cash payments to
farmers for labor. For development of immature areas, assistance
would be for fertilizers, chemicals and maintenance labor only;
and
(b)  for rehabilitation - costs of fertilizers and pest control
chemicals for two years and labor for the first year.
(c)  Daily casual labor wage  rates in project provinces vary from
Rp 1,475 in North Sulawesi to Rp 700 in Aceh with a weighted
average of Rp 1,100. Based on budgetary and equity grounds,
payment equal to 50% of the going wage in each province, subject
to a minimum payment of Rp 500/man-day, would be reimbursed to
farmers for on-farm development and rehabilitation./2 Payment of
a minimum rate should alleviate possible hardship where lower
wage rates prevail.
(d)  Intercropping.  Where intercropping with foodcrops is practiced,
the additional investment costs (seed, fertilizer and labor)
during the first year of participation would also be financed
under the credit scheme and included in the long term loan.
/1 Three years in the case of hybrid plantings, and up to five years for
talls.
/2 On this basis, a weighted average daily rate of Rp 600 has been used
for project costings.



- 20 -
However, since the liquidity position of farmers would be
relatively favorable thereafter from produce sales (Annex 5,
Tables 1 and 2), they would be expected to finance the cost of
seed and labor for foodcropping from years 2 through 5 for talls
and years 2 and 3 for hybrids. Fertilizer would be supplied on
credit throughout the intercropping period.
3.11       On-farm development costs to be financed under the credit scheme
are summarized in Table 3.3, and detailed costs per ha are given in Annex 4.
Administration of the credit system is discussed in para. 3.25.
Table 3.3: ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT COSTS PER HECTARE
Talls de-   Rehabili-
Talls planting   Hybrid planting   velopment    tation
With   Without    With   Without   (Without    (Without
inter-   inter-   inter-   inter-    inter-            inter-
crops    crops    crops    crops          crops)       crops)
Period of
development
(years)               6          6          5         5           5            2
Development
costs
(Rp '000/ha)    603         439        716        625        238            82
($/ha)            896       702      1,145     1,000         380           131
Seed Gardens
3.12       Future expansion of the national program will require large
supplies of hybrid seed nuts derived from dwarf coconuts crossed with
suitable talls. To develop this resource of hybrid coconuts, three 180 ha
seed gardens would be established under the project. DGE would decide on
the location of the gardens, and the responsibility would be undertaken by
one or more PNP/PTP's under DGE jurisdiction with a loan from Bank Indonesia
(para. 3.26).
Development of Project Organizational Entities
3.13       CWCs would be the main field implementation agency (para 4.07).
Provincial level offices and a Head Office would also be established to
support project activities. The project provides assistance for:
(a) equipping and staffing a new Head Office (HO) and 15 new
Provincial offices (POs).



- 21 -
(b) incremental investment costs of the 70 project CWCs; and
(c) full operating costs of the HO and POs /1 and incremental
operating costs of CWCs.
Project staffing is detailed in Annex 6, and organizational arrangements
are discussed in Chapter 4.
3.14      Buildings.  CWCs are already equipped with office buildings and
some housing. Under the project, the office buildings of the 70 project
CWCs would be extended (50 sq m per CWC) and additional houses (275 sq m per
CWC) constructed according to BAPPENAS approved standards. Each CWC would
also be provided with a small warehouse (50 sq m) for fertilizer storage.
Three new POs (530 sq m each) would be built and provision is made for
renting premises for the other POs and for HO. Warehouses (500 sq m each)
would be built at Provincial level for all 15 provinces to store fertilizer
in transit to CWCs. Building requirements are in Annex 7.
3.15      Vehicles and Equipment.  In addition to the tractor/trailer
(para. 3.04) each CWC would have a four-wheel drive pick up for the manager
and 8 motorcycles (6 incremental) for assistant managers and extension
officers (PLPTs). Funds allocated for motorcycles would be used for
speedboats in areas such as Maluku. Each PO would have a sedan for
the manager and three 4-wheel drive vehicles for senior staff and visiting
consultants. HO would be provided with eight sedans for senior staff and
consultants. Vehicles and equipment requirements are in Annex 7.
3.16      Total expenses for CWCs and HO/POs is $22.9 million in March 1980
prices with the following breakdown:
CWCs       HO/POs       Total
------- ($ million) ------
Investment expenses                4.7          2.0          6.7
Operating expenses                 6.6          9.6         16.2
Total                        11.3         11.6         22.9
3.17      Training.  The project provides for a substantial training program
at all levels. A staff training unit at HO, assisted by a training consul-
tant, would coordinate and schedule training. Provision is also made for
visits by senior personnel to foreign countries involved in coconut develop-
ment. Details of training costs are given in Annex 8, Table 7, while the
program is discussed in paras. 4.12 and 4.13.
/1 Because HO and POs are new entities.



- 22 -
3.18      Technical Assistance.  A coconut agronomist financed under Nucleus
Estates and Smallholder Project I (Loan 1499-IND) has been appointed as an
adviser to DGE and he will be assigned to the project until February 1982.
Additional support would be provided by the project (para. 4.11) for:
(a)  extension of coconut agronomist's services beyond February 1982
24 man-months;
(b)  two other experienced agriculturists to assist coconut
development throughout the country - 24 man-months each;
(c)  training adviser - 24 man-months;
(d)  financial and accounting advisor 36 man-months; and
(e)  crop protection specialist - 36 man-months.
The average man month cost, including salary, costs, fees, international
travel, housing and subsistence, local travel and other expenses is expected
to be about $7,300.  The cost also includes local travel and other expenses
(Annex 8, Table 6). It is expected that a firm would be hired for the above
services.
Studies
3.19      Three studies would be carried out under the project by firms
selected by DGE in consultation with the Bank:
(a)  examination of the current copra marketing and processing system,
preparation of a development strategy for the processing industry
and evaluation of the present system of credit, taxation and cost
recovery in the subsector; recommendations for the development of
coconut by-product industries (para. 6.06);
(b)  feasibility studies of areas proposed for a follow-up project; and
(c)  detailed listing of existing coconut holdings (location, age,
yield, average size, farmers' incomes, etc.), utilizing aerial
photography and DGE-s computerized data system, to help plan the
long-term coconut development program.
Terms of Reference are in Annex 11. Items (a) and (b) would be completed by
September 30, 1981 while item (c) would be completed by June 30, 1982.
Cost Estimates
3.20      Total project cost (1980/81-1984/85) is estimated at $95.2 million
(Rp 59.5 billion) of which $25.0 million (26%) is foreign exchange. Total
costs include: (a) 1979/80 project nursery and farm development costs $0.7



- 23 -
million; and (b) taxes (on buildings, vehicles and hybrid seed nuts) of about
$0.6 million, less than 1% of total project costs. Unit costs are based on
December 1979 levels updated to March 1980, and were derived from data
gathered during appraisal. Physical contingencies of 10% ha-vc been added to
all base costs. Expected price increases over the project period amount to
about 38% of total base costs plus physical contingencies, assuming the
following annual inflation rates:
1980    1981    1982   1983    1984    1985
Local costs              15       15       10      10       10      10
Foreign costs            10.5      9        8       7        7       7
Cost estimates are summarized in Table 3.4, and are presented in detail by
functional unit in Annex 8. Separate breakdown by item are presented for
salaries (Annex 6), fertilizer, civil works, and vehicles and equipment
(Annex 7).
3.21      Although the proposed project is scheduled to be completed by
December 1985, funds would be required through June 1990 when trees planted
in 1984/85 reach maturity. These costs (in March 1980 prices) which are
estimated at $11.0 million (Rp 7.1 billion) are excluded from the cost
estimates. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that GOI would allocate
adequate funds to maintain all project plantings until maturity; these
expenditures would be eligible for Bank Group financing under appropriate
follow-up projects.  In addition to the above costs, the unreimbursed portion
of farmer labor contributions would total $10.2 million /1 (Rp 6.4 billion)
during the project period.
Financing
3.22       The proposed Bank loan of $46.0 million is equivalent to 50% of
project costs, excluding the following: vehicles (inclusive of tax) covered
by reserved procurement - $2.5 million (para. 3.28); and other taxes $0.5 mil-
lion (para. 3.20).  The loan would cover the full foreign exchange cost
($23.0 million equivalent) except the foreign exchange component of vehicles,
and $23.0 million of local costs.
/1 In March 1980 prices.



- 24 -
Table 3.4: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
%      % of
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign   Base
---- (Rp million ----  ----(US$ million)----  exchange  cost
Credit Component
Nurseries          4,583   2,098   6,681    7.3        3.4    10.7    31           17
On-farm
development    10,661   4,456  15,117   17.0         7.1    24.1    29          39
Seed gardens         566      244      810    0.9      0.4      1.3    31           2
Subtotal        15,810   6,798  22.608   25.2    10.9    36.1    30             58
Noncredit
Component
Coconut
working
centers          5,029   2,032   7,061    8.1        3.2    11.3    28          18
Head office &
provincial
offices          6,110   1,149   7,259    9.8        1.8    11.6    16           19
Technical
assistance
& studies          500   1,218   1,718    0.8        2.0      2.8    70          4
Training              460      48      508    0.7      0.1      0.8    12           1
Subtotal        12,099   4,447  16,546   19.4        7.1    26.5    27          42
Total Base
Cost          27,909  11,245  39,154   44.6    18.0    62.6    28            100
Physical
contingencies      2,766   1,108   3,874    4.4        1.8      6.2    28          10
Expected price
increases         13,250   3,265  16,515   21.2        5.2    26.4    20           42
Total
Project
Cost          43,925  15,618  59,543   70.2    25.0    95.2    26            152



- 25 -
3.23      Government Funds.  The remaining $49.2 million would he financed
by Bank Indonesia (BI) and BRI (in a ratio of 80:20) for the credit
component, and a recently established Export Crops Fund (Dana Tanaman
Ekspor-DTE) in the Ministry of Finance for the noncredit component.  The DTE
receives all the revenuLe From a recently introduced export tax on palm oil,
tea and coffee, which will later be extended to rubber and pepper. The DTE
revenue, which would be used only for planting and rehabilitation of
perennial crops, in its first year was about $40 million/year ($32 million
from palm oil, $5 million from coffee, $3 million from tea). Table 3.5
shows the proposed financing plan.
Table 3.5: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(in current prices)
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total
----- Rp million ------   --- (US$ million) ---
Credit Component
IBRD                     14,387  10,005    24,392    23.0   16.0    39.0
BI                        8,427        -      8,427    13.5    -        13.5
BRI                       2,027        -      2,027      3.2    -        3.2
Subtotal               24,841  10,005    34,846    39.7   16.0    55.7
Noncredit Component
IBRD                          -   4,375       4,375      -       7.0     7.0
GOI                      19,084   1,238    20,322    30.5    2.0    32.5
Subtotal               19,084   5,613    24,697    30.5    9.0    39.5
Total Project
IBRD                     14,387  14,380    28,767    23.0   23.0    46.0
BI                        8,427        -      8,427    13.5    -        13.5
BRI                       2,027        -      2,027      3.2    -        3.2
GOI (DTE)                19,084   1,238    20,322    30.5    2.0    32.5
Grand Total                43,925  15,618    59,543    70.2   25.0    95.2/a
/a  Plus unreimbursed farmers labor contribution of $10.2 million.



- 26 -
3.24       Budgetary System.  HO and POs would prepare annual programs and
budgets by the end of October each year, which would be approved by BAPPENAS
and the Ministry of Finance not later than the first week in January of the
f llowing year. The Ministry of Finance would then direct BI to make
avail. ie each quarter, in advance, the necessary funds, from BI/BRI
rcsources for the credit component and from the DTE for the noncredit
component.  These funds would be deposited in accounts in BRI, and would be
disbursed at the direction of the POs and HO, directly to smallholders (for
the cash payments), to suppliers/contractors, or to the POs or the CWCs.
The DTE would provide any prefinancing needs for the project.
Credit System
3.25       Funds for the seed gardens ($1.6 million in current prices) would
be onlent to the PNP/PTP concerned (para. 3.12) by BI at an interest rate of
13.5% p.a.  over a period of 12 years, including a grace period of 6 years.
These arrangements are similar to these agreed with GOI for onlending to
estates under recent NES projects.  Loan accounts of smallholders would be
maintained by the DGE during the first three years of each account and there-
after by BRI (para. 4.09). The smallholders' loan and grace periods would
vary with the type of activity (Table 3.6). All loans would have an
interest free grace period and then bear interest at 6% p.a. during the
repayment period.  This low interest rate reflects the general Government
policy on credit to estate crop smallholders, and is considered acceptable
because of the importance of encouraging participation by farmers in this
pioneering coconut development program. Smallholder repayments of principal
would go into GOI's account in the Ministry of Finance. GOI, BRI and BI
would share the risk on principal in the ratio 70:25:5, while BRI would
assume the full risk on interest due. GOI would pay BRI, out of the DTE, an
interest subsidy to cover its costs and risks (para. 3.27).
Table 3.6: SMALLHOLDER CREDIT TERMS
Loan       Grace       Repayment
Activity                  period       period       period
------- (years) ----------
Planting talls               20           8            12
Developing talls             15           6             9
Planting/replanting
with hybrids               15           6             9
Rehabilitation               10           3             7



- 27 -
3.26       These credit arrangements, which are similar (for smallholder
credit) to those agreed for the recently approved Smallholder Rubber
Development Project (SRDP),/1 would be spelled out in (i) a subsidiary Loan
Agreement between BI (on behalf of GOI) and the PNP/PTPs for the seed garden
funds (para.  3.25), and (ii) a Financing Agreement between bi and BRI for
the smallholder component. There would also be a Subfinancing Agreement
between BRI and DGE for the smallholder component. The signing of separate
agreements, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement for
the respective credit components.
3.27       Impact on BRI.  As in SRDP, BRI-s interest revenue and interest
expenditure would be based on different annual rates depending on the sources
of funds. Details of BRI's income with respect to each smallholder loan are
in Table 3.7.
Table 3.7: BRI REVENUE UNDER THE PROJECT
Stage 1           Stage 2            Stage 3
(repayment period)
Years
1 - 3              4 - 6 /a            7 - 15
Average annual rate    3.9%                  7.4%                7.4%
to BRI
Based On:
Bank portion (70%)       1.0% (from DTE)   6.0% (from DTE)   6.0% (from farmer
BI/BRI portion (30%)  10.5% (from DTE)  10.5% (from DTE)  10.5% (6% farmer;
4.5% DTE)
/a These figures apply only for the hybrids and talls development loans;
for talls planting, the second stage would be years 4-8 while the
repayment period would be years 9-20. For rehabilitation there would
be only 2 stages - stage 1 as above and a repayment period of 7 years.
The average annual cost of funds used by BRI under the project would be 1.1%
based on: no interest on Bank funds, 3% on BI funds and 6.5% on BRI's own
funds. The interest spread would therefore be 2.8% during the first three
years and 6.3% thereafter. BRI's administration expenses are estimated
at 3% on outstanding loan balances during the first three years of the
respective loans and 4% subsequently. After allowing for default rates
/1 Report No. 2721-IND of January 22, 1980.



- 28 -
of 15% and 10% on principal and interest respectively, BRI's cumulative cash
flow, based on March 1980 prices is expected to be Rp 1.2 billion ($2.0
million) by year 2,000.
Procurement /1
3.28      Contracts for supply of fertilizer (except urea), agrochemicals,
polybags, tractors and trailers ($14.6 million) would be awarded through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. A preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. Locally advertised competitive bidding, following GOl
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank, would be used for: (a) equipment
and supplies costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, subject to an
aggregate ceiling of $1.5 million; and (b) cover crop seed ($0.7 million), in
which Indonesia is competitive, because it is essential that these be
available promptly when needed to prevent weed infestation. Fertilizers
(except urea) and agrochemicals would also be eligible for local procurement
up to a ceiling of $100,000 annually subject to prudent shopping with at least
three quotations. Sprayers, tools and water pumps ($0.9 million) would be
procured through prudent shopping after soliciting at least three price
quotations. Vehicles, except tractors ($2.5 million), would be locally
produced in accordance with the Government's policy of prohibiting vehicle
imports. As this is "reserved procurement," these would not be eligible for
Bank financing (para. 3.22) or disbursement.
3.29      Urea ($3.0 million) would be procured directly from PT PUSRI or
its authorized distributors since it is the sole producer/supplier of urea
in Indonesia and since world market prices for urea are 50% higher than
PUSRI's exfactory price. Hybrid seednuts would be purchased from selected
Government estates at prices set annually pursuant to directives issued by
DGE. Present prices are lower than import prices. Tall variety seednuts
would be purchased from selected local areas also at prices set pursuant to
DGE's directives. Total seednut costs under the project would be $6.5
million.
3.30      Procurement under ICB would be carried out by HO with assistance
from its consultants. Local procurement would be done by HO or by the POs.
Bidding documents for all contracts estimated to exceed $300,000 would be
reviewed by the Bank before issuance. The remaining costs ($67 million)
are not suitable for any of the above procedures and consist mainly of
labor, salaries and other administrative and operational expenses.
Disbursement
3.31      Disbursement would be made at the following rates:  (a) for
machinery equipment and materials, (i) 100% of foreign expenditures for
/1 Costs in this section are expressed in current prices.



- 29 -
directly imported items, (ii) 95% of the ex-factory price of locally
manufacured items and (iii) 65% of expenditure on imported but locally
procured items; (b) 100% of expenditure on urea (100% of foreign expenditure
on other fertilizers and chemicals), coconut seednuts,/l technical assistance
and studie;, (c) 85% of nursery and on-farm labor and (d) 75% of expenditures
on seed garden development. Disbursements for equipment, polybags, ferti-
lizers and chemicals, technical assistance, and studies would be made against
full documentation. For coconut seednuts, labor and the seed garden costs,
disbursement would be made against statements of expenditure (Annex 10,
Appendix B), with the supporting documentation retained by the HO and avail-
able for inspection by the Bank. The total cost of these items covered by
statements of expenditure, in current prices, is estimated at $31.5 million.
No disbursements would be made against civil works, HO and PO expenses, and
CWC expenses (other than cost of tractor/trailers). The loan would include
retroactive financing of $0.4 million for nursery and onfarm expenditures
incurred after July 1, 1979. The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is in
Annex 9, Table 1, while the estimated schedule of disbursements is in Annex 9,
Table 2.  Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.
Accounts and Audit
3.32      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:  (a) separate
accounts and records would be maintained to cover all project transactions;
(b) annual project financial statements and the accounts of BRI relating to
the project would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
and (c) these audited accounts and the audit report would be submitted to the
Bank within nine months after the end of each financial year. Guidelines for
the project accounting system is in Annex 10, Appendix A.
4. PROJECT IMIPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTION
Project Management in Jakarta
4.01      The DGE has overall responsibility for project implementation.
The new Special Team for Externally-Assisted Projects in DGE (para. 2.11)
would assist the HO (para. 4.02) with budgeting, procurement, recruitment,
etc.
Head Office
4.02      A Head Office (HO) unit would be created within DGE to be
responsible initially for planning and implementing the project and for
carrying out GOI's further smallholder coconut development projects.
As a special unit within the DGE, the HO would have more operational and
financial autonomy than a regular directorate. The HO would be headed by a
manager assisted by three deputies in charge of Technical, Finance and
Administration divisions.
/1 Costs include transportation to the CWC nurseries.



- 30 -
Provincial Offices
4.03      Program management tasks which must be executed at the provincial
level include: supervision and coordination of ail CWC activities; prepara-
tion of annual budgets, reports, and monitoring activities; channeling
and controlling funds; procurement, storage and distribution of fertilizers
and other CWC inputs; purchasing, transporting and distributing hybrid seed
nuts to CWCs; and arrangements for acquiring or alienating land for new
planting. These tasks will require full time staff at provincial level,
which the DPDs cannot provide because of their responsibility for a wide
range of regulatory activities (para. 2.08). For these reasons separate
full time Provincial Offices (POs) would be set up to supervise all the CWCs
within the province (not merely the project CWCs) and to coordinate the
provincial coconut development program. This would enable efficient
administration of the project and centralized direction from the HO, which
is important for establishing policies and standards for the national
program. The project would finance 15 such offices, six in the project
provinces (para. 3.01) and nine others - in North Sumatra, Riau, Jambi,
West Sumatra, Bali, East and West Nusa Tenggara, West Kalimantan and South
East Sulawesi. The 15 provinces have at least 6 or more CWCs each. Java,
which does not have a CWC network (para. 2.06), and the remaining coconut
provinces which have few CWCs would be considered for assistance in a second
or follow-up project.
4.04      POs would be headed by managers, responsible directly to the HO.
The PO manager would be assisted by three deputies who would head the
technical, finance and administration divisions. Until establishment of the
POs (para. 4.05), the head (Inspector) of the DPD would continue with super-
visory functions. Then under the project, the Inspector, assisted by the PO
manager, would coordinate activites between the PO and other agencies at the
provincial level. The Inspector would also serve as Secretary of a
Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC) chaired by the Provincial
Development Planning Agency (BAPPEDA) Head, on behalf of the Governor, and
including representatives of other concerned agencies./l
4.05      The establishment of the HO and appointment of its manager is
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. The Bank would be
given the opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience of the
nominee for the post of manager, and his replacements, if any. The six
project POs would be established not later than December 31, 1980 while
the other nine POs would be established on a phased basis - three each by
March 31, 1982, March 31 1983, and March 31, 1984 respectively. Assurances
were obtained on these matters during negotiations. Project organization is
depicted in Chart 21555.
/1 Local Government, BRI, Agraria, Public Works, DG Foodcrops, Bapengko,
and Cooperatives. Where PCC's are already established (.e. under
NES or SRDP), the same PCC's would supervise this project.



- 31 -
Coconut Working Centers
4.06      The strengthened CWCs would report to the POs and:  (a) select
farmers based on eligibility requirements (para. 4.14); (b) grow planting
material in the nurseries; (c) distribute planting material, fertilizer,
agro-chemicals and other inputs (in the absence of any adequate commercial
or cooperative distribution network); (d) guide and train workers in land
clearing methods and spraying for pest control; (e) instruct farmer groups
on proper husbandry techniques; (f) visit individual farms to provide
advice, assess timing for inputs, and confirm whether farmers had performed
tasks efficiently to be paid for their labor; and (g) coordinate other
project services (land survey and title issuance by DG Agraria; credit from
BRI, etc.). Extension arrangements are outlined in paras 4.16 and 4.17.
4.07      Each CWC is headed by a manager with four assistant managers, one
each for nurseries and administration (including finance), and two for field
development. Each CWC now has four field workers (PLPTs) which would be
increased to six when the hybrid program begins. Each PLPT would supervise
about 50 ha in the first year of planting, or 150 ha in the second and third
years after planting, or 500 ha for trees from the fourth year after plant-
ing. The maximum rate of new planting under the supervision of a single CWC
would be 150 ha/year. The administration section would handle input distri-
bution, and also be responsible for all CWC financial activities; these
would include keeping accounts for each participating farmer, showing inputs
and services delivered, cash payments made and the outstanding loan amounts.
These accounts would be maintained in a form in which they could be handed
over to BRI after three years (para. 4.09)./1
Staffing and Salaries
4.08      With effect from April 1980, GOI salaries were increased by up to
50%. Most of the senior positions under the project would be filled by civil
servants, who would receive special honoraria. At negotiations, an assurance
was obtained that GOI would provide the compensation necessary to attract and
retain suitable staff. About 370 additional technical and administrative
staff would be needed for the project, mostly recent high school and
university graduates. Existing agricultural educational institutions, some of
which are being assisted through two Bank Group-financed agricultural training
projects (Credit 288-IND and Loan 1692-IND), are expected to provide
sufficient graduates.
/1 Accounting requirements for State Banks differ from those of other
Government agencies. The farmer accounts kept by the CWCs would
have to satisfy both BI and Ministry of Finance regulations.



- 32 -
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
4.09      BRI would serve initially as a channel and source for project
funds. Then, three years after a farmer entered the project, he would
become a direct BRI client (para. 3.25), provided he had contracted no bad
debts and had maintained his coconut holding satisfactorily. Farmers not
accepted as BRI clients would be ineligible for further assistance. GOI
would bear the full risk of loan default by these farmers, while BRI would
share the risk on clients it accepted. Existing bad debts, e.g. on BIMAS
programs, would be deducted from the first year's cash payments made to
farmers for work under the project. BRI would make all cash payments to
farmers at the CWCs' direction.
4.10      Except in the province of Maluku, where BRI does not have a vil-
lage or mobile unit network, it is fairly well represented in the project
areas. Branch offices would handle major transactions such as payments for
fertilizer purchases from PT PUSRI, while village or mobile units would
distribute cash payments to and collect loan repayments from the smallhold-
ers. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that BRI would establish
adequate village or mobile units for all project areas. In Jakarta, BRI's
Investment Credit Bureau would deal with the project, assisted by
consultants financed under the Rural Credit Project (Credit 827-IND). An
extensive analysis of BRI is in the Rural Credit Project Appraisal (Report
No. 1741-IND).
Technical Assistance
4.11      All advisors engaged under the project (para. 3.18) would work in
DGE. A coconut agronomist, already posted in DGE, would assist with the
agricultural aspects of the project. The financial advisor would
concentrate on setting up appropriate accounting, costing, internal control
and budgeting systems for the project, and a management information system.
He would also assist DGE in coordinating with BRI the establishment and
management of the long-term credit system. The training advisor would
assist in the preparation of an overall training program, and oversee
implementation. The crop protection expert would advise on the
establishment of pest/disease control services and organize technical
training of project staff. The two additional agricultural advisors would
assist DGE in mounting training programs for field staff and accelerating
field implementation both of this project and the overall smallholder
coconut development program. The advisers would also assist in preparation
of future proects. At negotiations an assurance was obtained that the
financial advisor, training specialist and crop protection specialist would
be appointed by December 31, 1980, and the two additional agriculturalists
by June 30, 1981, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Training
4.12      One-month training courses organized by the Agency for (Agricul-
tural) Education and Training (AET), in cooperation with the DGE, were held



- 33 -
in 1977 and 1978 for CWC managers and assistant managers. In addition, new
high school or university graduates joining CWCs are given short intro-
ductory courses on coconut production and extension methods followed by a
month's practical experience on a Government estate. About two-thirds of
CWC technicai staff have obtained such training. There is a need to provide
initial training for new staff, and to make training more practical and
geared to operational requirements through continuing in-service courses for
the upgrading of technical knowledge and skills. Similarly, specialized
training for project administrative and financial staff is necessary for
effective operational control of budgeting, procurement of supplies, and
monitoring of project implementation.
4.13      Under the project training of CWC technical and administrative
staff and of newly recruited HO and P0 personnel will be done. An assurance
was obtained at negotiations that a detailed training program would be
prepared by the HO, in consultation with the training advisor, and presented
to the Bank for approval by June 30, 1981. The proposal would include the
training schedule and syllabuses for the various categories of staff,
facilities to be utilized, the need for overseas studies, and itemized
costs. Classroom training would be conducted at existing institutions at
regional level as far as possible. Emphasis would be placed on refresher
courses based on operational needs, short practical group training sessions
at field sites, and individual on-the-job training. Assistance to the
in-service staff training program would be the primary function of the two
technical agricultural consultants appointed under the project.
Farmer Selection
4.14      The CWCs would select farmers for participation in the project
based on the following criteria: (a) they reside permanently within 5 km
of the land to be planted; (b) they are fit and above 18 years of age;
(c) they either own coconut land or work on coconut production or process-
ing; (d) the coconut trees on the land to be replanted are low-yielding
(below 0.6 tons/ha); (e) the soil, slope and drainage of the land is
suitable; (f) their family labor is sufficient to develop project
plantings; and (g) they agree to abide by all project rules, to maintain
cultivation standards laid down by the CWCs and to sign BRI subloan
agreements. Farmers who failed to maintain their holdings satisfactorily,
after due warnings, would be excluded from further assistance until they
brought their plantings up to standard. The CWCs would also arrange for
informal training of the farmers.
Land Tenure
4.15      Under Indonesian customary (adat) law, land that has been
permanently developed or occupied for a reasonable period is deemed to be
privately owned and can secure certificate of ownership. The issuance of
such title (hak milik) by the DG of Agraria is a complex and lengthy
procedure including a cadastral survey. The advantages of the hak milik are



- 34 -
that owners can use it as collateral for borrowing from banks and as a firm
basis for land sales, and that it prevents any future disputes about
ownership of the land. To meet BRI requirements, hak milik would be issued
within three years of their entrance into the project to all farmers main-
taining adequate cultivation standards, but would be retained by BRI as
security until subloan repayment was completed. The only exception would be
the rehabilitation loans where it is proposed that, due to the comparatively
small amount of the loan (Rp 82,000/ha), relaxed security arrangements such
as the issue of a "Letter C" (Certificate of payment of tax) and a
supporting letter from the village head would be adequate./l Funds
for carrying out the land surveys and issuing the hak milik are included
with on-farm costs (Annex 4).
Extension
4.16      Organized farmer group activities under guidance from CWC staff
would include land clearing and tree felling, coconut stem disposal,
soil cultivation, alang-alang eradication, drainage work, lining, holing,
fertilizer application, planting of coconut seedlings, and establishment of
cover crops. Individual smallholders would look after their own holdings in
subsequent weeding and field upkeep work, or the management of foodcrops if
the area is intercropped.  The improved field husbandry to be undertaken in
the rehabilitation program would be demonstrated to participating small-
holders through a group approach (training and visit) extension system,
whereby PLPTs would receive specialized instruction periodically and provide
guidance on current work activities through meetings with farmer groups at
regular intervals. Group leaders would also be brought to CWC offices to
discuss and plan seasonal implementation schedules.
4.17      The extension activities to be undertaken under this project are
restricted to the farm practices necessary for successful planting/
replanting and establishment of coconut holdings, and would be restricted to
the establishment phase (the first 5-7 years) of any new planting. Under
the National Agricultural Extension II Project (Credit 996-IND), routine
extension for coconut holdings during the long mature period would be
gradually introduced as part of the broad program of extension covering all
major smallholder activities. One important point of liaison between the
two programs would be the encouragement, by the general extension worker
(under the provincial food crops agriculture service), of farmers holding
uneconomic stands of old coconuts to participate in the replanting program.
4.18      Demonstration Plots.  A network of demonstration plots (18 plots
with areas ranging from 1 to 7 ha each) planted with Dwarf x Tall hybrid
coconuts was established in 18 provinces by the DGE in 1978 and these
/1  This arrangement is now in force under the Smallholder and Private
Estates Tea Project (Credit 400-IND).



- 35 -
will continue to be supervised by the DPDs.  The plots are established on
different soil types in different climatic zones and with varying fertilizer
rates. Observations on growth performance in the various locations would
provide some indicators for a more comprehensive range of agronomic trials,
including varietal trials to test the local hybrid materials. rhe results
from such trials together with data from leaf analyses and soil surveys
would provide the basis for formulating fertilizer application recommenda-
tions suited to local requirements in the future.
Monitoring and Reporting
4.19       Project monitoring and reporting would concentrate on (a) the
project implementation rate, (b) the quality of plantings, (c) the economic
status of participants before and after planting, (c) unit costs, (e) actual
project costs; (f) disbursements; (g) the credit system and (h) institu-
tional development. A computerized national perennial-crop data system now
being set up by DGE can meet most project reporting needs and be easily
adapted to meet the remaining ones. When project plantings reach maturity,
emphasis would shift to coconut production, marketing and processing, and
subloan repayment. HO would plan and coordinate monitoring and reporting;
data collection would be done by POs and CWCs. Semi-annual progress reports
would be sent to the Bank.
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
Coconut Yields and Production
5.01      With the inputs proposed and reasonable field management, the
average copra yield for hybrid coconuts at full development is estimated at
3.9 tons/ha./l Production would commence about 5 years after planting, and
the palms reach full maturity by the 10th or 11th year. It is estimated
that production would be maintained at peak level for about 10-15 years, and
thereafter yields would decline progressively over the next 20 years or so
until the palms reached the end of their productive life.
5.02      Local tall coconuts would come into bearing between 6-1/2 to 7-1/2
years after planting, and it is estimated that the yield at maturity by year
12 would be about 2.3 tons copra/ha. This yield level could be obtained for
about 20-25 years before a progressive decline set in over the next 20-30
years. These yields are also based on the assumption that recommended
fertilizer inputs would be applied and that good field management practices
would be maintained. For immature tall coconut holdings brought into the
/1 4 tons in the more favorable areas of North Sulawesi, Maluku, Central
Sulawesi and parts of South Sulawesi (75% of project area), and 3.6 tons
in the other areas of South Sulawesi, Lampung and Aceh (25% of project
area).



- 36 -
project, it is estimated that the peak yield would be about 2 tons copra/ha
at maturity, and that production trends would follow the pattern described
for the local talls planted under the project.
5.03       Conditions will vary considerably among the holdings participating
in the rehabilitation component, and wide yield variations can be expected.
It is estimated, however, that a yield increase of about 50% would be
attained 3-4 years after fertilizer treatment, which would be continued
together with attention to sound field management.  This could lead to
yields of up to 1.8 tons copra/ha where the minimum preproject yield is
1.2 tons/ha.
5.04      Annual incremental copra production due to the project would
exceed 100,000 tons by the tenth year after commencement of the project,
rising to a peak of over 150,000 tons in years 13-17, and thereafter slowly
declining to under 100,000 tons in year 42 and negligible amounts after
50 years. A detailed analysis of incremental annual copra (and intercrop)
production is presented in Annex 12.
Intercrop Yields and Production
5.05       Intercropped rice yields are projected at the equivalent of 1.2 tons
paddy/ha and groundnuts at 0.8 tons/ha. The field area actually planted
with intercrops would decline from about 85% to 50% over the intercropping
period. The total output from the project during the period 1980-87 would
be about 30,000 tons of paddy and 20,000 tons of groundnuts.
6. MARKETS, PRICES, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY
6.01       After a decade of slow growth (approximately 1% p.a.) in world
production of coconut oil between 1961 and 1970, the rate increased sharply
to about 6% in 1971-75 and then dropped to about 3.5% between 1975-79. Real
prices of coconut oil fluctuated widely in the early 1970s, dropped sharply
to the lowest level in 15 years in 1975 and have subsequently improved /1
despite a general fall in the overall fats and oils prices. Prior to 1976,
Indonesian coconut oil prices were generally comparable to world prices as
Indonesia was an exporter, but commencing in 1976 when domestic demand first
exceeded local production, domestic prices rose above world market prices
due to Government limitation on the imports of coconut oil. After the
devaluation of the Indonesian rupiah in November 1978, the local price was
some 31% below the world market. Although prices in world markets continued
to increase, local prices declined somewhat in real terms due to Government
action to hold down the prices of coconut oil through substitution of other
oils.  The world market prices of coconut oil (in constant 1980 prices) is
expected to stabilize around $910/MT through 1985, and then decline to
$884/MT by 1990.  Indonesian prices are however expected to rise because of
the continuing shortfall in supply (para. 6.02).
/1 In 1980 dollars, the price was $626/MT in 1975 rising to $1,086 in 1979.



- 37 -
6.02      In 1977, Indonesian domestic demand was estimated at between 1.6
and 1.8 million tons CE and this is forecast to rise by 5% p.a. over the
next decade compared with a growth in supply of between 2 and 5% annually.
Consequentlv, the shortage of coconut oil is expected to become more severe
and incremental production from the project (10,000 tons CE in 1986, rising
to 105,000 tons CE in 1990 and 151,000 tons CE in 1995) should be readily
absorbed locally. The local prices should therefore at least remain
constant in real terms.  The present average farmgate price for copra of 15%
moisture content in the producing areas (Rp 200/kg in March 1980)/i was
therefore used for financial analysis of the project (also see para. 7.04).
Marketing and Processing in the Project Areas
6.03      The present copra production system (para. 2.03) results in some
quality deterioration. Copra is collected by middlemen who purchase it at
discounted wholesale regional copra prices, which are given on the basis of
5% moisture content. While there is competition among middlemen, the
traders may be raising their profit margins by intentionally overestimating
the moisture content of the purchases.  The absence of uniform standards for
assessing copra quality and the weak marketing position of farmers have
limited farmers- incentives to produce good quality copra.
6.04      In North and Central Sulawesi and Maluku, the activities of
processors and wholesalers are regulated by BAPENGKO (para. 2.14). BAPENGKO
sets quotas on the copra which may be processed or purchased by individual
wholesalers and processors in these provinces.  In addition, each of these
provinces is required to provide a quota of copra (which averaged 50% of
production in 1976 and 1977) for processing in Java.  This system enables
outdated Javanese mills, which would otherwise be forced out of business by
the modern, better located, and technologically more efficient mills of the
Other Islands, to remain in production.  The system constrains competition
at the wholesale level and strengthens the position of the copra processors
vis-a-vis the farmers. Consequently, farmgate prices are lowered.
6.05      Besides the transfer of income from farmers to processors, there
are some absolute economic losses resulting from this feature of the
distribution system: transport costs are increased; and some spoilage of
copra (estimated at between 2 and 3% of the value of copra transported)
occurs during transhipment from the Other Islands to Java.  In addition,
because of their lower extractive efficiency, the Javanese mills leave a
residue of about 10-12% coconut oil in the cake (which is exported), and this
reduces annual production of coconut oil by approximately 25,000 tons. These
losses have, however, to be balanced against the loss of employment in Java
and the loss of income to the Javanese millers, which would result if the
quota system is abandoned.
/1 Based on the average farmgate price in October 1979 of Rp 185/kg.



- 38 -
Study on Marketing, Processing and Cost-Recovery.
6.06      A study would be financed under the project to examine the potential
for improving the marketing position of the farmers in the copra distribution
system. The study would evaluate the feasibility of organizing group drying
and marketing of copra (possibly through existing cooperatives) and the
feasibility of developing uniform standards for judging copra quality. The
study would also consider the potential for greater utilization of coconut
byproducts.  A second aspect of the study would focus on the sectoral issues
of the coconut industry and include: long-run supply and demand projections;
an evaluation of the costs and benefits of the present system of market
regulation under BAPENGKO; recommendations for improvements in the wholesale
marketing system; and the preparation of a long-range plan for the future
location of copra and coconut by-product processing facilities.  This aspect
of the study would also review the present system of taxation and credit in
the coconut industry, determine the extent of cost recovery under planting
programs, and recommend improvements in the tax and/or credit systems to
increase equity and cost recovery. During negotiations, terms of reference
for the study, including the Government's objectives, were agreed; also, an
assurance was obtained from Government that it would furnish the results of
the study to the Bank by September 30, 1981 for its review and that thereafter
it would take appropriate steps to implement the recommendations agreed
between the Government and the Bank.
Farm Income
6.07      Average preproject farm incomes /1 in the project areas vary between
$402 (Aceh) and $891 (North Sulawesi) equivalent to $80 and $178 per capita
for a family of five. Without the project, farm incomes would probably remain
at or near this level. Average shortfalls of income, compared to total
preproject incomes, for the main project participants (hybrid planters) would
range from about 5% for new planting with intercrops, to about 22% for
replanting /2 without intercrops, during the first five years. Incomes would
begin to exceed preproject incomes by the sixth year and rise rapidly
thereafter (see farm model Annex 5). Farmers participating in the
rehabilitation and talls development component of the project would suffer
only marginal income loss during the investment period.
6.08      The expected financial rates of return to the farmer in the project
vary from about 30% for new planting of hybrids and tall (both with
intercrops) to about 18% for replanting with hybrids.
/1 From mixed sources, of which coconuts make up about 50% of the income.
/2 Replanting is expected to be undertaken in only about 11% of the total
area under the project.



- 39 -
6.09       Details on incomes per ha at full development are given in
Table 6.1.
Table 6.1:  AIiNUAL FARtI INCOLIES AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
(PER HA IN MARCH 1980 PRICES)
Incremental                      Net incremental
income before         Loan         income during
loan repayment    repayment         loan period
…---------------- US dollars ----------------
Niew planting:
Ilybrids (with intercrops)       895              184                 711
Talls (with intercrops)          480              126                 354
Talls - development                202                64                138
Rehabilitation                      82                26                 56
Farmers may participate in one or more of the project activities, depending
on factors such as cropping patterns and preferences, wage rates and labor
availability. If, however, farmers were to participate in only one activity
(say 1.5 ha of hybrids; or 2 ha of talls planting or development; or 3 ha of
rehabilitation), average per capita incomes (including preproject incomes)
at full development would range from $391 for new planters of hybrids to
$264 for participants in rehabilitation.
Cost Recovery
6.10       Taxes on copra in the project areas (para. 2.05) amount to about
7-1/2% of the farmgate financial price of copra. Assuming the level of real
taxation in the subsector does not decline copra taxes will recover approx-
imately 49% of on farm costs. Loan repayments would recover a further 20%
and tlhus the total cost recovery under the project will be 69% (discounting
at 10% p.a.). Since the participants' average income levels under the
project (para. 6.09) are expected to be higher than the forecast critical
income level ($200/ capita for 1995) on the Other Islands, there may be a
case for increasing cost recovery. GOI should review the system of cost
recovery and consider the feasibility of increasing the level for future
projects. The proposed study on marketing and processing (para. 6.06) will
address this issue.



- 40 -
7. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Project Benefits and Justification
7.01    The project, which will support coconut production at all stages
(planting, development of immature trees and rehabilitation of mature
trees), would increase the incomes of some 40,000 smallholder families/
holdings (about 200,000 people) in the project areas, some 20% of whom are
below the absolute poverty level of $120 per capita (in 1980 prices).
The investment costs of smallholder development are estimated at about
$2,100 per family (constant 1980 prices).  Foreign exchange savings at peak
production would reach US$78 million (in March 1980 constant prices) p.a.
The project would also promote the development of coconut areas in CWCs
outside the project (by establishing provincial offices) and strengthen the
institutions involved in the national smallholder coconut development
program. There will also be studies under the project which will focus on
improving resource allocation, strengthening overall planning in the
subsector, and reviewing the system of taxation and cost recovery.
7.02      Total labor requirements at full development would amount to the
equivalent of about 14,800 full-time jobs. These would be absorbed by:
hired labor; farmers themselves by using up some of their spare time;
and by substitution of time spent on less productive activites.  The average
cost per job created is estimated at $5,600 (constant 1980 prices)
Rate of Return Calculation
7.03      Project benefits include estimated incremental copra production
and intercrops. The economic cost stream includes: the establishment of
nurseries to supply planting material and all on-farm costs, including
family labor; the operating expenses of the CWCs and the incremental CWC
investment associated with the project; 70% of head office and provincial
office costs;/l and the cost of technical assistance and studies under the
project. All costs include 10% physical contingencies.
/1 The remaining 30% will be incurred on activities not directly related to
project production.



- 41 -
7.04       Opportunity Costs.  Financial prices (in March 1980 constant prices)
have been used in the economic analysis except as follows: (a) For copra, the
projected financial farmgate price is Rp 200/kg based on the farmgate price
prevailing during appraisal in October 1979, but the economic price, based
on the import parity price of copra, is Rp 268/kg (Annex 13). The difference
is the result of taxes and government intervention in the edible oils market
including: subsidized sales of palm oil in the domestic market; rationing
copra allocations for processing; and restrictions on copra and coconut oil
exports; (b) for hybrid seed nuts: seed nuts will be supplied ex-seed garden
at a price of Rp 207 per nut.  The economic price of these nuts, however,
calculated on the basis of economic investment costs and operating expenses
and projected seed garden yields is Rp 310; (c) for intercropped rice the
market price is projected at Rp 100/kg, but the economic import parity price
is estimated at Rp 158; and (d) fertilizer price assumptions are in Annex 13.
7.05      Labor markets in the project areas are reasonably competitive and
labor's economic opportunity cost per man-day is set at the prevailing
average wage rate for unskilled labor in the project areas Rp 1,100 (para.
3.10c). Since the rupiah devaluation in 1978 a standard conversion factor
of 1.0 is used for Indonesia, as the official exchange rate US$1.0 = Rp 625
is estimated to reflect the value to the economy of foreign exchange.  The
estimated economic rate of return (ERR) for the overall project is 19%,
based on 94% of project costs for which benefits have been quantified.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.06       The crucial variables in the economic evaluation of the project
are overall project costs, copra value, area planted and hybrid yields and
precocity in reaching production.  It was assumed that intercropping would
take place on 50% of the newly planted and replanted areas, but the effect
of variations in intercropping on the rate of return is only slight.
Without intercropping, the overall rate of return on the project declines
from 19% to 18%, but the switching values for the crucial project variables
were virtually unaffected.
7.07      As Table 7.2 indicates, the overall project is remarkably robust
to changes in the tested project variables. Project economic costs would
have to rise by 66% before the ERR falls below 10%. The project can also
tolerate a fall of over 40 percent in the economic value of copra produced
at the farm-gate level. While the world copra market has experienced high
volatility from year to year (and world copra output is likely to rise
rapidly in response to currently projected price levels on world markets) a
long term decline in world prices of this magnitude is highly unlikely.



- 42 -
Table 7.2: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF PROJECT
Appraisal       Switching
Variables                          value/estimates    value /a         % change
Farm-gate value of
copra /b            Rp per kg          268            158.1          -41
Investment costs      Rp billion       106.7            177.1          +66
Area planted /c        '000 ha          79.0             15.0          -81
Hybrid yield Id       tons/ha            4.0              1.9          -52
Hybrid yield lagged
one year Id         tons/ha            4.0              2.1          -47
Hybrid yield lagged
two years /d        tons/ha            4.0              2.3          -42
/a  The value which sets the net present value of the overall project at
zero, at a 10% discount rate.
/b 1990 price in constant March 1980 currency values.
Ic Assuming project overhead costs are fixed.
/d At full development; yields in other years would move proportionately.
7.08      Testing project sensitivity to copra price declines is equivalent
to testing for the effect of a proportionate yield decline in all the
project's subcomponents. However, as the main investment expenditure is on
the hybrid subcomponent this aspect was scrutinized more closely. With
hybrid precocity unchanged the switching value for hybrid copra production
is less than 2 tons per hectare. If hybrid precocity were delayed one or
two years the corresponding switching values would be 2.1 tons per ha and
2.3 tons per ha of copra respectively. Such declines are not considered
likely.
7.09      If CWC and other project entity costs remain fixed, the overall
area planted and developed under the project would have to decline by over
80% before the project failed economically. Since the CWCs in the project
areas have already been established, they should be capable of implementing



- 43 -
the project as planned. However, since the use of improved input packages
for tall coconuts has not been previously demonstrated in Indonesia the
response of farmers to the rehabilitation and development package will not
be known until it is made available.  Moreover, some farmers may prefer to
wait for hybrids rather than plant the currently available selected talls.
In view of these uncertainties the ERR and switching values were calculated
(assuming CWC overheads remain unchanged) for the hybrid component only.
The ERR for such a project would be 18%.  Delays in hybrid precocity of one
and two years would, however, lower the ERR to 16 and 14% respectively. As
Table 7,3 indicates, such a modified project would be sufficiently robust to
tolerate a 40% decline in predicted hybrid yield if precocity were unchanged,
and 34% and 27% declines in expected copra yields if hybrid precocity were
delayed by one and two years respectively.  Copra values or area planted
would have to decline by more than 42% or project costs would have to rise
by more than 75% before such a project failed economically.  Thus while the
tall planting, development and rehabilitation components are worthwhile
features of the project they are not crucial to its economic success.
Table 7.3:  SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF HYBRID SUBCOMPONENT OF PROJECT
Appraisal       Switching
Variables                                value         value /a       % change
Farm-gate value of
copra /b             Rp per kg         268             152.8          -43
Investment costs /c  Rp billion          72.4            126.8          +75
Area planted /d        '000 ha           31.9             13.7           -43
Hybrid yield /e        tons/ha            4.0              2.4           -40
Hybrid yield lagged
one year /e          tons/ha           4.0               2.64         -34
Hybrid yield lagged
two years /e        tons/ha            4.0               2.92         -27
/a  Footnotes identical to those in Table 7.2 above.
Risks
7.10       The two main project risks are inexperienced management and low
subloan repayment by farmers. The project design seeks to minimize these
risks by providing: (a) a management structure with more flexibility



- 44 -
and authority than under the regular civil service; (b) competitive salaries;
(c) staff training; and (d) consultancy.  With the above  arrangements the
proposed project is expected to achieve its objectives. Poor repayment
performance, while not affecting project economic benefits, would defeat the
financial and educational objectives of using credit for the program. The use
of group marketing organizations as repayment channels would be investigated.
Overall, the project risks are acceptable in view of the benefits which would
accrue to a large number of farmers and to the economy as a whole.
Environmental Effects
7.11      Under the project, the new planting of coconuts on scrub/alang-
alang land would utilize neglected areas which have deteriorated through
successive cycles of shifting cultivation.  In the case of replanting,
unproductive old coconut holdings would be replaced with improved high
yielding planting material. Planting of a leguminous cover crop in both new
planting and replanted areas would build up soil fertility and help control
the spread of noxious weeds. Temporary intercropping of young coconut
holdings would be confined to flat and gently undulating lands to minimise
soil erosion. On sloping lands, platform terracing would be practiced when
coconuts are planted, to control erosion. The rehabilitation of existing
holdings would lead to better field management conditions, including
improved drainage conditions where necessary. The application of
fertilizers in the rehabilitation program, and also to foodcrops and coconut
plantings, would avoid depletion of soil nutrients. The use of chemicals in
association with good husbandry practices would be required to control
specific serious pests, but the small quantities applied would have no
significant adverse environmental effects. In fact, proper use of chemicals
to minimise pest damage in severely affected coconut localities would
greatly enhance the environment and the livelihood of the communities
concerned.
8. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances were be obtained during negotiation that:
(a) each farmer would obtain assistance for no more than: two hectares
for planting/replanting and for development of immature trees; or
five hectares for rehabilitating mature holdings. An equitable
combination would be permitted if there is less than maximum
activity under either category (para. 3.02);
(b) GOI would allocate adequate funds to maintain all project
plantings until maturity (para 3.21);



- 45 -
(c) separate accounts would be maintained to record all project
transactions; annual project financial statements and the annual
accounts of BRI related to the project would be audited by
inJependent auditors acceptable to the Bank; audited accounts and
the audit report would be submitted to the Bank within nine
months after the end of each financial year (para. 3.32);
(d) the Bank would be given the opportunity to comment on the
qualification and experience of the nominee for the post of HO
manager (or his replacements, if any, during the project period);
the six project POs would be established not later than December 31,
1980, while the other 9 POs would be set up on a phased basis -
three each by March 31, 1982, March 31, 1983 and March 31, 1984
respectively (para. 4.05);
(e) GOI would provide the compensation necessary to attract and
retain suitable staff (para. 4.08);
(f) BRI would establish adequate village or mobile units in all
project areas (para. 4.10);
(g) consultants (one each) on finance, training and crop protection
would be appointed by December 31, 1980, and the two consultants
on coconut production would be appointed by June 30, 1981,
on terms and conditions acceptable to Bank (para. 4.11);
(h) HO would send to the Bank for approval, by June 30, 1981, the
detailed project training program (para. 4.13);
(i) GOI would arrange for a study to cover: copra processing and
marketing, utilization of byproducts, and sectoral issues of the
coconut industry including taxation and cost recovery in the coconut
industry. It was agreed that GOI would furnish the report of the
Bank for review by September 30, 1981 and that thereafter it would
take appropriate steps to implement the recommendations agreed
between GOI and the Bank (para. 6.06). Feasibility studies of areas
proposed for a follow-up project would be completed by September 30,
while studies on existing coconut holdings would be completed by
June 30, 1982 (para. 3.19).
8.02      Establishment of the HO and appointment of its manager is a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 4.05).



- 46 -
8.03      Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between BI, acting for GOI,
and (a) PNP/PTP for the seed garden funds; and (b) a Financing Agreement
between BI and BRI for the smallholder credit component; and a subfinancing
agreement between BRI and DGE, acceptable to th Bank, would be a condition of
disbursement of the respective credit components (para. 3.26).
8.04      With the above assurances, documentation, and conditions, the
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$46 million. The Borrower
would be the Republic of Indonesia.



ANNEX 1
- 47 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SCDP)
List of Coconut Working Centers at October 1979
Number set up                          Participation
Province /a                  1975/76        1976/77        Total           in SCDP
D.I. Aceh                        6              9             15                6
North Sumatra *                  4               7            11                -
West Sumatra  *                  4              6             10                -
Riau           *                 9              18           27                 -
Jambi          *                 5              8            13                -
South Sumatra                    2              3             5                -
Bengkulu                         1              -              1                -
Lampung                          2               6             8                8
West Kalimantan *                5               7            12                -
Central Kalimantan               -              3             3                -
South Kalimantan                 2              -             2                -
East Kalimantan                  2              1             3                 -
North Sulawesi                  20             19            39               24
Central Sulawesi                 6             16            22                12
South Sulawesi                   7             10            17                12
Southeast Sulawesi *             3              3             6                -
Bali *                           5             10            15                 -
West Nusa Tenggara *             3              6             9                 -
East Nusa Tenggara *             3              5             8                -
Maluku                           -             21            21                 8
Irian Jaya                       -              3             3                -
Total                      89            161           250               70
Summary                No.
Sumatra                  90
Kalimantan               20
Sulawesi                 84
Bali                     15
Nusa Tenggara            17
Maluku                   21
Irian Jaya                3
Total             250
/a  In addition to the 6 provinces in which selected CWCs would participate in
the project, those provinces marked with an asterisk would also be strength-
ened under the project (para. 4.03 of main report).



ANNEX 2
- 48 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rainfall Data for Locations in the Project Area
Monthly rainfall average (mm)
Province  Location                 Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  Total
Aceh       Banda Aceh              164  120   78  102  125   99   83  129  165  167  164  205  1,601
(Northwest)
Bereun                  145  182  210  270  221  102  152  114  199  269  339  297  2,500
(North coast)
Meulaboh                208  216  248  427  255  220  276  212  334  302  316  238  3,252
(Southwest coast)
Lampung   Bergen                   230  265  256  164  148   79   49   52   59   69  136  211  1,718
(South)
Gunung Sugih           374  302  289  278  143  148  127   84   98  158  258  358  2,617
(Central)
North      Manado                  435  351  290  229  184  154  154  130  103  133  240  375  2,778
Sulawesi     (Northwest)
Tambasian               378  215  338  177  107  203  139  226  134  225  328  376  2,846
(North coast)
Tibawa                  122  111  125  186  151  137  115   79   41   70  139  164  1,440
(South coast)
Central   Ogotua                   249  156  176  168  163  174  122  122   93  120  158  226  1,927
Sulawesi     (North)
Palu                     58   44   36   50   57   65   62   49   51   40   42   47    601
(Central)
Ampana                  190  123  175  141  216  191  227  158   66   87   74  116  1,764
(Northeast coast)
South      Watang Sawitto          199  176  200  210  304  190  117  103   90  149  187  232  2,157
Sulawesi     (West coast)
Pammana                  58   46   48  170  131  144  145   99  112   91   68   56  1,168
(Central)
Ujung Bulu              106   89  100  167  309  317  137   52   25   36   37   65  1,440
(South coast)
Kajang                  163  135  184  311  486  520  187   64   28   52  101  121  2,352
(Southwest coast)
Maluku    Tobelo                   166  163  166  331  216  248  159  187  143  137  174  110  2,200
(Northeast)
Oba                     163  228  143  305  233  173  181  182  203  156  221  185  2,373
(Central)
Source: Directorate General of Estates, Jakarta.



ANNEX I
- 49 -
INDONESIA
SMALLROLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phasing
North      South               Central
Year                  Sulawesi  Sulawesi  Lampung  Sulawesi  Aceh   Maluku   Total
-------------------- Number of CWCs /a --------------------
1                         8         4          4         -         -      -        16
2                         8         4          4         -         -      -         16
3                         8         4          -         4         4       2       22
4                         -         -          -         4         2       4       10
5                         -         -          -         4         -      2         6
:otal                   24        i2          8        12         6      8        70
------------------------ Hectares ------ …-----------------
1  Talls P lb           800       400        200       600       300    400    2,700
Talls D /c        1,200        600        400       600      300    400    3,500
Hybrid  /d           800       400        400         -         -      -    1,600
Rehab.  /e           800       400        400      400         -       -    2,000
2  Talls P              400       200          -       600       300    400    1,90GI
Hybrid            2,000    1,OOC       1,0CO          -         -      -    4,000
Rehab.            2,000    1,000       1,000    1,000        200    400    5,600
3  Talls P                -         -          -       400       100    300       800
Hybrid            3,200    1,600       1,200       400       400    200    7,000
Rehab.             3,200    1,600       1,200    1,600       700  1,000    9,300
4  Talls P                -         -          -       200         -    100       300
Hybrid            3,600    1,800       1,200    1,000        800    700    9,100
Rehab.            3,600    1,800       1,200    1,800        900  1,200   10,500
5  Hybrid             3,600    1,800       1,200    1,600        900  1,100   10,200
Rehab.             3,600    1,800      1,200    1,800        900  1,200   10,500
To tal
Talls P            1,200       600        200    1,800       700  1,200    5,700
Talls D            1,200       600        400      600       300    400    3,500
Hybrid           13,200    6,600       5,000    3,000    2,100  2,000   31,900
Rehab.           13,200    6,600       5,000    6,600    2,700  3,800   37,900
/a  This phasing is for the hybrids program; rehabilitation (which commences
before the "hybrids" in some CWCs), and planting of talls (which will be
done until introduction of hybrids), will be done under the existing frame-
work.
/b Planting of talls - 50 ha per CWC per year until introduction of hybrids.
/c Development of immature tall trees (1-2 years old); 50 ha per CWC.
/d& 100 ha per CWC in first year of participation; 150 ha per year thereafter.
/e



A!INEX
Tab I e I
- 50 -
INDONESIA
SHALLJOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
flantint Onse He Rbrid Coconuts (With Intercroos) /a
Tields. S le   nd Costs
Unit cost                                                        Year (July-June years)
-- (Rp) -       Total             1              2              3              4           5    6      7    8    9       10-40
Productions (tons copra)/b                                                                                                                 1.2  2.4  3.0  3.8  4.0-3.l
~~~ ~~----   ~RpOO -0 ---_-____________________
Copra sales J .                                                                                                                            240  480  600  760  800-600
Investment Costs
Polybag plants L                         1,225 es      196             175             21
Fertilizer
Coconuts                               97-118/kg    127               12             18            27              35            35
Cover crop                                 97/kg      11  (58)        11   (19)    (19)           (15)             (5)
Seed - Cover crop Jo                     1,200/kg       22  (36)        22    (24)    (Z0)/h        (14)1h          (12)
Labor
Coconuts                                 600/sd      180            108              18            18              18            18
Cover crops                              600/ad       36  (54)        24    (36)     12  (30)/h (24)/h            (18)
Spraying                                                 12              3              3              2              2             2
Chemicals - pest control /f                   -         25  (37)         5     (9)      5   (9)        5     (9)      5             5
Small tools a                                 -           5              5
Land title                                              11                                            11
Total Investments                                   625 (716)      365  (391)       77  (88)      63    (82)    60  (95)       60
(Including family labor)
Annual. Costs
Fertilizer                               Avg 78/kg                                                                                        64  44   44   44            44
Labor
Maintenance 4 fertilizer               1, 100/d                                                                                         33   33   33   33           33
Harvest                                1,500/md                                                                                         12   24   30   38       40--V
Copra saking                           1,000/md                                                                                         12   24   30   38    40- ,
Transport of nuts /i                     Rp 3/nut                                                                                         16   32   41   51        54-41
Chemicals  f                                                                                                                               5    5    5       5
Misc. inc. copra'kiln
maintenance                                                                                                                              8    8    8    8
Total An ual Costs                                                                                                                   130  170  191  209  224-_9.
CTncluding family labor)
Not Flow - before finance charges                                 -365            -7            -63             -60           -60    110  310  409  551  576-40S
Effect of Intercropping with Food Crops (including
costs not financed under the project - note /h)
Sales -                                                                170            140           100
Seed, fertilizers and pesticides                                        14             43            29              17
Labor                                                                   12             18            24              18
Total Costs                                                         26              61            53             35
NetoU fact                                                        +144            +79           +47             -35
Net  lQow  (Including                                            (-221)            (+2)         (-20)          (-95)          -60   110  310  409  551  576-409
food crop effect)
effect of intercropping is shown in parentheses.
j     Copro of 15S moisture content (mc):  4 cons is equivalent to 3.58 tons copra of 5% mc.  This yield vou d be obtained  in 757 of project areas
while in 25% of the areas, the yield would be 3.6 tons/ha e 15% mc (or 3.2 tons/ha e 5% mc).  Net income per ha in the latter areas would be
Rtp 534,000/ha.
Li  lp 200/kg.
ii  143 in  ear 1, 17 supplies  in Yesr 2.
La 18 kg.
]    Itiaaion estimate.
La Includes slashers, hoes and share of sprayer.
Would not be financed under the project (see para. 3.10d of main report); total excludes amount not financed.
fIp 3/nut; 4.500 nuts/ton copra equals Rp 13.500/ton copra.
Assue 507 rice. 50I groundnuts.  Rice 1.2 tons/ha e Rp 100/kg; groundnuts 0.8 tons/ha I Rp 300/kg.



ANNEX 4
- Sl -                                                                 Table 2
INDONESIA
SMALLROLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Planting One Ra Tall Coconuts
Production, Sales and Costs /a
Year
- 1    -    2           3            4            5          6               8      9    10   11   12-60
Production (tons)lb                                                                                               0.5  1.0   1.6  1.8  2.0  2.35-1.0
-____------… -- _      --------------- - Rp'000 -----------_                 ----------------------------------
Copra sales                                                                                                       100  200   320  360  400  450-200
Investment Costs           Total
piants /cj                 i:4         36            4
Fartilisers
Coconuts                78            8           8           12          14            18        18
Cover crop               11  (85)   11  (19)          (19)        (15)         (15)        (12)        (5)
Seed - cover crop /d    22  (36)   22  (24)             (24)/g      (20)/.L      (17)LA      (14)       (12)
Labor
Coconuts /e            192          102          18           ;8          18            18        18
Cover crop /e           36  (54)   24  (36)   12  (42)A           (30).L       (30),L      (24)      (18)
Spraying                   14           3            3           2            2            2    -    2
Chemicals /f               30  (55)    5   (9)    5   (9)    5   (9)    5   (9)            5  (9)   5
Small tools /f              5           5
Land title                 11                                   11
Total Investment
Costs               439 (603)  216 (242)   50  (61)   48  (67)   39  (58)    43 (97)  43 (78)
Annual Costs
Fertilizers                                                                                                      23   27    27   27   27    27
Labor
Maintenance 6
fercilizers /e                                                                                              33   33    33   33   33    33
Harvest /h                                                                                                     5   10    16   18   20    24
Copra 1i                                                                                                       5   10    16   18   20    23-10
Transport of nuts /L                                                                                              7   14    22   24   27    3n-14
Chemicals Lf                                                                                                      5    5
Misc.-kiln maintenance /j                                                                                         8    8      8    8    8       8
Total Annual Costs                                                                                           86  107   127  133  140   150-126
Net Flow (before
finance charges)               -216         -50          -37           39          -43       -43          +14   93   103  227  260   300-74
Effect of IntercropPing
With Foodcrops 1k
Sales                                 170         170          140         120           100         -
Seeds, fertilizers and
pesticides                           14          47           39          36            30        17
Labor                                  12           30          30          30            24        18
Total Costs                     26           77          69           66           54        35
Net Effect                             +144         +93          +71         +54           +46       -35
Net Flow (including fooderop
effect)                              (-72)       (+43)        (+23)       (+15)          (+3)    (-78)
/a  Effect of intercropping in first five years is shown in parentheses.
/b  Copra of 15S moisture: 2.35 tons per ha copra of 15% moisture content is equivalent to 2.10 tons per ha
of copra of 5S moisture content.
/c  e Rp 300/plant, including transport - 120 plants first year, 15 supplies second year.
7d  18 kg e Rp 1,200/kg.
/e  e Rp 600/man-day during investment period, Rp 1,100/man-day for annual costs similar to hybrids (sea Table 1).
/f Mission estimates.
Would not be financed under the project (see para. 3.10  of main report); totals exclude amount not financed.
/h  Rising to Rp 50/tree, four times/year.
/i  Rp 13,500/ton copra.
a   9 man-days/ton copra.
/k  Including items not financed under the project - see note /it



ANNEX 4.
Table 3
-52 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rehabilitation One Ha Tall Coconuts Sales. Investment Costs and Benefits
Before
rehab.     Year 1      Year 2      Year 3    Year 4-10   Year 11-15
Yield - nuts/palm                40          40         40           50          60         53
Yield - copra/ha                1.2         1.2        1.2          1.5         1.8         1.6
- - ------…                   -    Rp'000  - ----------------------
Sales                           240         240        240          300         360        320
Investment Costs
Fertilizer (2 years'
requirement)         54       -          27        27            -           -           -
Labor - initial
improvements /a      18       -          18         -            -           -           -
Pesticides /b           10      -           5          5
Total Investment   82        -          50        32            -           -           -
Annual Costs
Fertilizer                      -           -          -          27          27          27
Labor
Field maintenance &
fertilizer /c               9          9          9           33          33          33
Harvest /d                   24          24        24           24          24          24
Copra making /e              12          12         12          15          18          16
Transport of nuts If           16          16         16           20         24          22
Pesticides /b                   -           -          -            5          5           5
Miscellaneous - Copra
kiln maintenance /g           8           8         8            8           8           8
Total Annual Costs          69         69         69          132         139         135
Margin                          171         121        139          168         201        185
incremental Benefits         -         _           -           60         120          80
Incremental Annual Costs
Fertilizer                      -           -          -          27          27          27
Labor
Field maintenance &
fertilizer /c              -           -         24           24          24          24
Harvest /d                    -          -           -           -           -           -
Copra making /e               -           -          -           5           8           6
Transport of nuts /f            -           -           -           6         10           8
Pesticides /b                   -           -           -          -           5           5
Total Incremental
Annual Costs             _            -          24          62          69          65
Net Incremental
Income                              (50)        (32)         (3)         51          15
/a  30 man-days reimbursed @ Rp 600 per man-day.
/b  For insect control.
/c  Rising from 8-30 man-days/year.
/d  Rp 50/tree.
/e  9 man-days/ton copra.
/f  Rp 13,500/ton copra.
/g  Local materials.



ANNEX 5
- 53-
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model Summary - Replanting with Hybrids, 3 Years Intercropoina
(North Sulawesi)
Without
prolect                                           With prolect
Year:        1       15     1       2       3      4       5       6      7       8       9      10   11-15 16-20
Harvested Area (ha)
Coconuts
Old stand /a                    1.5    1.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5
Mature                          1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4
Replanted                         -    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1-5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5
Other crops lb                    0.3    0.3   1.15    1.0    0.8    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3
Production (kg)
Coconuts
Old stand                      900    600    600    600    600    600    600    600    600    600    600    600    600    400
Mature                       1,400  1,200  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,200  1,200
Replanted                         -      -       -      -       -       -       -  1,800  3,600  4,500  5,700  6,000  6,000  6,000
Other crops
Rice                              -      -    504    420    300         -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -
Groundnuts                     266    266    661    595    290    266    266    266    266    266    266    266    266    266
- _---- --- - ------ - -- (Rp'000) ---- - --- - ---------------------------------
Gross Value of Production
Coconuts
Old stand                      180    120    120    120    '20    120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120              80
Mature                         280    240    280    280    280    280    280    280    280    280    280    280    240    240
Replanted                        -       -       -      -       -       -      -    240    480    600    760    800    800    800
Other crops                        80     80    250    220    180        80      80     80      80      80     80      80      80     80
Net Value of Production
Coconuts
Old stand                       86      60      28     28      28      28     28      28      28     28      28      28     20      20
Mature                          176    150    176    176    176    176    176    176    176    176    176    176    150    150
Replanted                         -      -       -      -       -       -      -    110    310    409    551    576    576    576
Other crops                        50     80    220    170    136        50      50     50      50      50     50      50      75     75
Subtotal farm income          312    290    424    374    340    254    254    304    564    663    805    830    821    821
Off-farm income /c                  245    245       -    127    142    156    201    245    245    245    245    245    245    245
Wages - hired labor /d                -       -   (109)      -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -
Project cash receipts le              -       -    177      22      22     44      22       -      -       -       -      -       -       -
Subloan repayments                    -      -       -       -      -       -       -       -   (115)  (115)  (115)  (115)  (115)         -
Total Income                  557    535    492    523    504    454    477    609    694    793    935    960    951  1,066
Incremental net income                -      -    (65)   (34)   (53)  (103)   (80)    52    137    236    378    403    394    531
/a  One ha replanted under the project.
/b  Additional groundnuts and rice planted 50:50 as intercrops in Years 1-3 as follows:  0.85 ha in Year 1; 0.7 ha in Year 2;
and 0.5 ha in Year 3.
/c  Man-days Q Rp 1,475/day.
/d  Cash payments for hired labor @ Rp 1,475/man-day.
/e  For labor during development period 0 50% of going wage.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
- 54 -
INDONESLA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Working Center (CWC) - Staffing and Salaries
(Rp'000)
Pre-                              Total salaries/CWC
project                     Annual          Non-        Year
staff      Project       salaries/      hybrids       before
(no.)      staff Ia       person           /b         hybrids
Manager                   1             1          1,000          1,000        1,000
Asst. managers           4              4            750          3,000        3,000
Extension offi-
cers (PPLs)            4             6             625          2,500        3,750
Clerks                   -             3             520          1,040        1,560
Drivers Ic               -              2             840           360          600
Nursery fore-
man /d                 -             1             540              -
Laborer                  -              1             260           260          260
Total               9            17           4,535          8,160       10,170
/a Assumed that increases in staff numbers would be effective in year prior to
commencement of hybrid program. Present cadre is considered adequate for
talls planting.
/b Up to year prior to commencement of hybrids. Salaries charged to nursery
account (see footnotes Ic and Id) are excluded.
/c Full-time salary (Rp 360,000 p.a.) for driver of 4-wheel drive pickup and
50% of annual salary of Rp 480,000 (Rp 240,000) of tractor driver charged
to CWC account. Balance 50% of tractor driver's salary is charged to nur-
sery account.
/d Nursery foreman's salary charged fully to nursery account.



ANNEX 6
Table 2
- 55 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Provincial Office - Staffing and Salaries
Annual                 Total
No.     salaries/person       annual salaries
…-----_____-- (Rp'OOO) -      …----
Provincial Head                       1            2,400                  2,400
Department Managers
Administration and personnel        1            1,750                  1,750
Finance                             1            1,750                  1,750
Technical training                  1            1,750                  1,750
Assistants
Administration and personnel        2            1,000                  2,000
Finance                             2           1,000                   2,000
Technical training                  6            1,000                  6,000
Clerks                             12              520                  6,240
Secretaries                         5             520                   2,600
Drivers                             5              360                  1,800
Laborers                            4              260                  1,040
Total                            40                                  29,330
say  29.400
Phasing: year 1 - 80%
year 2 onwards - 100%



ANNEX 6
- 56 -                              Table 3
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Head Office Expenses - Staffing and Salaries
No.      Annual salary       Total salary
______- (Rp' 000)  …------
Manager                                1             3,700              3,700
Department Managers
Finance                              1            3,200              3,200
Administration and personnel         1             3,200              3,200
Technical and training               1             3,200              3,200
Internal Auditor                       1             3,200              3,200
Senior Staff
Finance                              4             1,750              7,000
Administration                       4             1,750              7,000
Technical and training               4             1,750              7,000
Internal audit                       3             1,750              5,250
Planning                             2             1,750              3,500
Staff Assistants                      12               700              8,400
Secretaries                            5               500              2,500
Clerks                                23               500             11,500
Drivers                                8               350              2,800
Laborers                               6               200              1,200
Total                             76                              72.650
Phasing
1st year    60%
2nd year    80%
3rd year
(onwards) 100%



C32801/J63986/D2316/22-23 WS
INDONESIA
SHALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Main Investmenit Requirements (Vehicles, Equipment an Civil Works)
Unit                                                                        Total
cost                                                                       1980/81-   Total cost /a
Rp'000   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1984/85    Rp million
I.  VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                    ----------------------------- Number --------------------------
Coconut Working Centers
Water pumps                      404       16        32         38         48         48          38        220             89
Tractor/trailer /b           10,200         -         32        22          10          6          -         70            714
4-wheel drive pick up         6,400        -          70         -          -          -          -          70            448
Motorcycles (100 cc)             530        -        156        64        210          76         36        542            287
Generators                     1,020        -         35         35          -          -          -         70             71
Provincial Offices
Sedans                        7,000        -           6         3           3          3         -          15            105
4-wheel drive pick up         5,100        -          18         9          9           6         -          42            214
Motorcycles (100 cc)             530        -         30         15         15         15          -         75             37
Head Office
Sedans                        7,000        -           8         -          -           -          -          8             56
2,021
II.  CIVIL WORKS                               --------------------------- Sq meters -----------------------------
Coconut Working Centers
Office extension                  73        -     3,500           -          -          -          -      3.500            256
Houses                            73        -     6,300      9,450           -          -          -    15,750           1,150
Warehouses                        62        -     3,500           -          -          -          -      3,500            217
Provincial Offices
Office buildings                  95        -          -        530        530        530          -      1,590             151
Warehouses /c                     82        -     1,500         750     2,250       1,250      1,000      6,750            554
2.328
la  In March 1980 prices.                                                                                                                                       aN
/b This refers to the total cost for tractor/trailers which is allocated equally between nursery development
expenses and CWC investment expenses.
/c 750 sq m in Year 6 not shown on this table.



INDONES IA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fertilizer Requirements (1979/80-1980/84) /a
Total
Unit price      1979/80      1980/81          1981/82        1982/83          1983/84          1984/85         1979/80-1984/85
Rp'O0O/Ton    T/b  Rp M/c  T    Rp M         T    Rp M       T    Rp M      T      Rp M       T      Rp M         T      Rp M
Urea               78         20    1.6    761   59.4   1,755  136.9   3,072  239.6  4,331   337.8   5,334    416.0   15,273  1,191.3
co
Rock phosphate    54                      1,083   58.5   2,325  125.5   4,201  226.8  6,215   330.7   8,104    437.6   21,838  1,179.1
Triple suiper
phosphate        77          9    0.7    258   19.9       546   42.0       876   67.5  1,169    90.0   1,336        102.9    4,194    323.0
Muriate of
potash           86         27    2.3    701   60.3   1,894  162.9   3,666  315.3  5,409   465.2   6,930    595.9   18,627  1,601.9
Kieserite         102          9    0.9    254   25.9        567   57.8   1,121  114.3  1,626   165.8   2,051         209.2    5,628    573.9
Total                    65    5.5  3.057  224.0   7,087  525.1  12.936  963.5 18.660 1,389.5  23.755  1.761.6   65.560  4.869.2
/a  In March 1980 financial prices.
/b  Tons.                                                                                                                                                    z
/c  Rp million.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
- 59 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summarized Total Project Costs (1979/80-1984/85)
(Rp million)
1979/80
(Retro-  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1979/80-  % F.E.
sactive)                                                     1984/85
Nurseries                     (Table 2)    441         850    1,383       1,699     1,889       419    6,681        31
On-farm investmient           (Table 3)        -    1,217      1,914    3,045    4,037    4,905   15,117            29
Seed gardens                  (Table 3)        -       486        136        88       100         -       810       31
Coconut working centers       (Table 4)        -    2,077    1,812        1,230       985       957    7,061        28
Provincial and head office (Table 5)           -       935    1,182      1,619    1,822    1,701    7,259           16
Technical assistance          (Table 6)        -        90       240        330       180         -       840       80
Studies                       (Table 6)        -       337       541          -         -         -       878       62
Training                      (Table 7)        -        60        149       108       119        72       508       12
base Costs
Local                                      274    4,028    5,077    5,877    6,662    5,991   27,909
Foreign                                    167    2,024    2,280    2,242    2,470          2,063   11,245
rotal                                441    6,052      7,357    8,119    9,132    8,054   39,154            28
Physical Contingencies
Local                                                404       507       589        667       599    2,766
Foreign                                              203       228       224        247       205    1,108
Total                                          607        735       813       914       804    3,874        28
Price Contingencies
Local                                                501   1,485       2,621    4,017    4,626   13,250
Foreign                                              166      4-33        679       971    1,016      3,265
Total                                           667   1,918       3,300    4,988    5,642   16,515          20
Total Cost
Local                                      274    4,933   7,069        9,087   11,346   11,216   43,925
Foreign                                    167    2,393   2,941        3,145    3,688    3,284   15,618
GRAND TOTAL                          441    7,326  10,010    12,232   15,034   14,500   59,543              26



- 60 -                                             ANNEX 8
Table 2
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nursery Development Costs
(March 1980 costs - Rp million)
I                                          Total
1979/80/a  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1979/80-84/85
Fencing, stores & huts                 9          11        14         8         4         -            46
Water pumps & water hoses             11          21        26        28        24         16          126
Tractors & trailers                   82          82       113        51        31          -          359
Seed nuts                            197         390       630       802       893         -        2,412
Polybags                              29          72       126       164       184          -          575
Fertilizers & chemicals                9          27        43        61        66        38           244
Tractor & pump running costs          20          58       121       175       219       122           715
Small tools & repairs                  3           5         8        10        11         4            41
Administration /b                     81         184       302       400       457       239         1,663
Subtotal                       441         850    1.383      1.699    1.889        419         6,681
Physical contingencies (10%)           -          85       139       170       189        42           624
Price contingencies                    -          94       357       681     1,022       281        2,435
rotal                          441       1,029    1,880    2,550    3.100           742        9,740
/a  Retroactiv financing.
lb Includes salaries, nursery labor and rent.



ANNEX 8
Table 2a
-61 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONJT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CWC Hybrid Coconut Nursery Model and Physical Development
Producing 16.000-24,000 Polybat Plants per Annum
Investment and Operating Costs (Rp'OOO)
Yr 2 to
Unit                                                              penulti-   Final
quantity        Unit cost             Total        Yr 0    Yr 1  mate year  year /a
Capital Investment
Fencing                           600 m               0.5                300          200     100         -         -
Watchman's hut                      1                  80                 80           80        -        -          -
Store                               1                 300                300          300       -         -         -
Water pumps /b                     1-4                408            816 - 1,632      408     408         -          -
Water piping/hose                                                        500          250     250         -          -
Tractor                            0.5              8,000              4,000        4,000       -         -         -
Trailer                            0.5              2,250              1,125        1,125       -         -         -
Tools, including sprayer                              150                150          150       -         -         -
Total Capital Investment                                       7,271 - 8,087   6.513       758       _          _
Operating Costs
Seed nuts                     25-37,500/yr           0.35                           8,750  13,125   13,125           -
Polybags                       18-27,000/yr           0,1                           1,800   2,700    2,700           -
Fertilizers                    340 g/plant          0.085                             200     576       714        414
Chemicals                                                                             150     325       375        150
Tractor running costs                        3,000/tractor yr                       1,000   2,000    3,000      1,500
Pump running costs                           325/pump yr                              217     434       488       243
Labor
Nursery                                    1.1/man-day                            2,387   4,900    5,560      2,585
Watchman                                   30/man-month                             210     360       360       240
Tractor operator                           40/man-month                             180     330       360       240
Foreman                                    45/man-month                             540     540       540       360
Repairs and replacements                                                               40     120       150         60
Land rent                      1-1.5 ha/yr             50                              50      75        75         75
Total Operating Costs                                                           15.524  25.485   27,447      5.867
Total Costs                                                                    22.037  26.243   27.447       5.867
Physical Development
FY   79/80    80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84    84/85
Number of Nurseries Starting
Hybrids                                        16       16        22       10         6        -
Talls                                          54        -         -        -         -        -
Number of Nurseries Finising
Hybrids                                             -              -        -         -       70
Talls                                          -        16        22       10         6        -
Number of Nurseries Operational
Hybrids                                        -        16        32       54        64       70
Talls                                          -        54        38       16         6        -
/a  For nurseries reaching full production of 24,000 seedlings; nurseries starting in Year 4 would only attain
production level of 16,000 seedlings.
/b I pump purchased in Year 0 (16,000 polybags), 1 pump purchased upon expansion to 24,000 polybags in Year 2,
both replaced on average after 3 years' production.
Note: Average cost per polybag plant ex-nursery - Rp 1,225.



ANNEX 8
- 62 -                               Table 2b
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ia
(0.25 ha) Nursery Producing 6,750 Tall Plants - Annual Costs (July/June Years)
Unit Qty.   Unit Cost    Yr 1   Year 2 to pen-   Final
ultimate year    year
---------- Rp'000 ----------
Seed nuts                   10,500/yr   Rp 100         1,050        1,050           -
Fertilizers & chemicals   -                               80          145          65
Nursery labor               Man-day      Rp 1,100        402          589         253
Supervision /b              Man-month   Rp 45,000         75           60          30
Land rent                   ha           Rp 50,000        13           13          13
Total                                              1,620        1,857         361
/a Sufficient for 50 ha per year of field planting.
/b Part-time.
Note: Cost per seedling ex-nursery @ Rp 300.



ANNEX 8
Table 3
- 63 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
On-Farm Development and Seed Garden Costs
(March 1980 costs - Rp million)
Total
1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1980/81-84/85
On-Farm Developnent Costs
Cover crop seed               89       65        86       113       136         489
Other seed                    52       71        94       113       122         452
Urea                          53      131       236       340       429       1,190
Other fertilizers
& pesticides              225       483       891    1,301    1,678         4,577
Small tools                   39       30        39        47        51         205
Spraying                     20        38        57        79       102         296
Labor                       739    1,096    1,556    1,979    2,301           7,671
Land title                     -         -       86        65        86         237
Subtotal Base Costs   1,217    1,914    3,045    4,037    4,905            15,117
Physical contin-
gencies (10%)             122       191       305       404       490       1,512
Price contingencies         142       511    1,531    2,173    3,352          7,409
Total                1,481    2,616    4,581    6,614    8,747         24,038
Seed Garden Costs
Field planting              308       113        88       100         -         609
Buildings                    130         -         -        -         -         130
Vehicles                      48         -         -         -        -          48
Roads                          -       23         -         -         -          23
Subtotal Base Costs        486       136        88       100         -         810
Physical contin-
gencies (10%)              49        13         9        10         -          81
Price contingencies           54       35        36        50         -         175
Total                  589       184       133       160         -       1,066



ANNEX 8
Table 3a
- 64 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Details of Hybrid Seed Garden Establishment Costs (Per Garden)
(Rp-000)
1.  Planting Materials /a            Year 1          Year 2             Total
…-…- ------- Rp'000 -           …------------
Dwarfs (per ha)                  220             25                245
Talls (per ha)                   175             21                196
2.  Field Establishment                Ag4rc.       Planting
Labor  services /b  materials  Materials tc   Total
Dwards (per ha)
Year 1                150      105             220          108           583
Year 2                150        -              25           41           216
Year 3                115        -               -           52           167
Year 4                105        -               -           66           171
Subtotal           520      105            245           267        1.137
talls (per ha)
Year 1                125      105             175          101           506
Year 2                125        -              21           34           180
Year 3                 95        -               -           44           139
Year 4                 85        -               -           55           140
Subtotal           430      105             196          234          965
3.  Seed Garden Planting
Dwarfs, 150 ha x Rp 1,137                                              170,550
Talls, 30 ha x Rp 965                                                    28,950
Subtotal                                                          199.500
2. Buildings
Staff house (1)                                                         14,400
Foremen's houses (2)                                                      8,000
Office and laboratory                                                    12,000
Store/garage                                                             9,000
Subtotal                                                           43.400
3. Vehicles
Pickup (4-wheel drive)                                                    7,000
Truck                                                                     9,000
Subtotal                                                           16.000
4. Roads
Upgrading estate roads, 6 km x Rp 1,250                                   7.500
Total                                                             266.400
Cost for 3 seed gardens                                                   799.200
/a Dwarfs 200 and Talls 160 polybag plants/ha including supplies.
lb Machinery services for land clearing and cultivation.
/c Fertilizers, chemicals, tools, cover crop seed.



ANNEX 8
-65 -                                         Table 4
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Working Centers Expenses, 1980/81-1984/85
(Rp million)
Total
1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1980/81-84/85
Investments
Buildings                         650       765       207         -         -        1,622
Vehicles                          694       146       162        71        19        1,092
Furniture & equipment             124       124         -         -         -          248
Subtotal Investments       1,468    1,035        369        71        19        2,962
Operating Costs
Staff salaries, rent
allowances, administra-
tive expenses /a               686        747       773      783       790        3,779
Building maintenance and
stationery training              57        84        95       95        95          426
Vehicle, tractor and
generator expenses              138       183       209      229       234          993
Travel and per diem               148       183       204       227       239        1,001
Subtotal Operating
Costs                    1,029    1,197    1,281    1,334    1,358            6,199
Subtotal base costs        2,497    2,232    1,650    1,405    1,377            9,161
Less: Nonincremental
expenses /a                 420       420       420       420       420        2,100
Net base costs             2,077    1,812    1,230         985       957        7,061
Physical contingencies (10%)        208       181       123        98        95          706
Price contingencies                 224       476       508       552       691        2,451
Total                      2,509    2,469    1,861    1,635    1,743           10,218
/a Includes farmer training expenses.



A.NNEX 8
- 66 -                                Table 4a
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Working Centers - Incremental Inivestment Cost
Present       Additions during prolect
No.             No.           Unit    Total
Area  fami-   No.   fami-   No.   cost    cost
sq m  lies   units  lies   units  - (Rp'OOO) --
BuildinRs /a
Office                              70
Office extension                    50                              1        73   3,650
Housing:
Manager                           50      1       1
Asst. managers                    90      2       1      2       1        73   6,570
Extension officers (PPLs)         90                     2       1        73   6,570
Bachelor's quarters (for
2 persons)                     45                              1        73   3,285
Store                               50                              1        62   3,100
Subtotal buildings                                                            23.175
Vehicles
65 hp tractor and 2-ton
trailer /b                                                       1    5,100   5,100
4-wheel drive pickup /c                                             1    6,400   6,400
Motorcycles (100 cc) /d                                             8       530   4,240
Subtotal vehicles                                                             15,740
Equipment
Generator and electric
wiring /e                                                        1    1,020    1,020
Office equipment (set) /e                                           1    2,500   2,500
Subtotal equipment                                                             3,520
Total Investment Costs/CWC                                                    42.435
/a  Buildings:  Office extension, store and 1 unit - assistant managers' houses
to be constructed in Year I of project; extension officers and bachelor's
houses to be constructed in Year 2 of project; phasing of expenditure - 70%
in first year of construction and balance in next year.
/b  To be purchased in year preceding hybrid introduction (Year I purchases
include hybrid introduction in that year); costs tractor (about 75hp) -
Rp 8.0 million, trailer - Rp 2.2 million; 50% of costs charged to nursery
a/c and balance shown on CWC account.
/c  One per CWC in Year I of the project.
/d  Eight per CWC with hybrid introduction - purchases on a phased basis.
|e  All purchases in Year 1 of the project.



ANNEX 8
-67 -                                       Table 5
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Provincial and Head Office Expenses, 1980/81-1984/85
(Rp million)
Total
1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1980/81-84/85
Investments
Buildings                      123       112       235       174        62           706
Vehicles                       191        89        75        74         -           429
Furniture & equipment           50        20        15        15         -           100
Subtotal Investments    364         221       325       263        62         1,235
Operating Expenditure
Salaries, rent and
administration /a           407       663       875    1,053    1,107           4,105
Travel and per diem            133       240       324       402       426         1,525
Vehicle operations              31        58        95       104       106           394
Subtotal Operating
Expenditure             571       961    1,294    1,559    1,639            6,024
Subtotal Base Costs       935       182    1,619    1,822    1,701            7,259
Physical contingencies            94       118       162       183       170           727
Price contingencies              103       325       689    1,044    1,263           3,424
Total Costs             1,132       622    2,470    3,049    3,134           11,410
/a Includes repairs and maintenance of buildings.



ANNEX 8
Table 5a
- 68 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Provincial Office Phasing and Investment Requirements
I. Phasing
1       2         3         4        5        Total
No. of provincial
offices                6 /a    3          3        3         -         15
II.  Investment Requirements per Office
No.        Unit Cost   Total Cost/Office
…___--- Rp '000 -         …------
Sedan                      1             5,220           5,220
Four-wheel drive           3             5,220          15,660
Motorcycles (100 cc)       5               530           2,650
Furnitures/equipment                                     5,000
Warehouse                500 sq m /b        82          41,000
Office building          530 sq m /c        95          50,350
Total                                               119,880
/a   All project provinces.
/b   250 sq m in year 1 of operation, 250 sq m in year 3.
/c   Only for three of the six project provinces: one each in years 2, 3 and
4. It is assumed that other provinces would be able to rent suitable
premises.



ANNEX 8
Table 6
- 69 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Studies
Consultant expenses                       1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84   Total
Head Office:
@ $8,000/man-month
1 Financial advisor /a                  48          96        96        48
1 Plant protection specialist /a         48         96        96        48
1 Training advisor /a                    48         96        48         -
1 Project agriculturalist /b              -          -        96        96
2 Provincial agriculturalists /b          -         96       192        96
Total ($-000)                    144        384       528       288    1,344
(Rp million)               90        240       330       180       840
Consultancy
Studies /c                                 man-months /c   1980/81   1981/82   Total
(a) Marketing and processing,
cost recovery, and by-products
Consultancy costs                           33          105         40       145
Other costs                                  -           75        266       341
(b) Existing coconut holdings
Consultancy costs                           30           65         66       131
Other costs                                  -           92         94       186
(c) Feasibility study - follow-up project
Consultancy costs                           10            -         44        44
Other costs                                  -            -         31        31
Total (Rp million)                                  337        541       878
/a Three years each from mid-1980/81.
/b (1) Already in position in Head Office and financed under Loan 1499-IND
until 1981/82; to be financed under this project for 2 years - 1982/83
and 1983/84.
(2) For the provinces, 2 years each - 1981/82 and 1982/83.
/c Consultant costs are at $7,000/man-month and has provision for a mixture of
foreign and local consultants; other costs are at $5,000/man-month plus the
following costs: $425,000 for a pilot plant for processing of coconut wood
under study (a); and additional $150,000 for aerial photography and analysis
under study (b).



ANNEX 8
- 70 -                                 Table 7
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Training
Years      1         2         3         4         5      Total
Overseas Travel
DGE Directors /a                           4,300    4,300                          8,600
Project Manager /b                         3,900                                   3,900
Chief Technical
Officer /c                               1,900                                   1,900
Provincial Office
Managers /d                              3,200    6,400    6,400    6,400   22,400
Total - US$                               13,300   10,700    6,400    6,400   36,800
- Rp-000                            8,313    6,687    4,000    4,000   23,000
Add: Local training
(Rp'OOO)                 51,750  142,130  103,920  115,380   72,290  485,460
Total Training            51,740  150,443  110,607  119,380   76,290  508,460
/a  2 trips of 4 weeks each (in years 2 & 3), based on Jakarta/Ivory Coast
return ($2,600), plus per diem of $60/day.
/b  1 trip of 3 weeks Jakarta/Ivory Coast return, plus per diem as above.
/c  1 trip of 3 weeks based on Sri Lanka return ($850), plus per diem of
$50/day.
/d  One trip of 2 weeks each per officer - based on Sri Lanka return, plus
per diem of $50/day.



ANNEX 8
Table 7a
- 71 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Training Costs and Phasing
(Rp'000)
Yr. 1   Yr. 2    Yr. 3    Yr. 4    Yr. 5   Total
CWCs
Managers
- upgrading                       -    4,800    9,600    9,600           -   24,000
Asst. managers (tech.)
- orientation                12,000    6,000          -         -        -   18,000
- upgrading                       -   18,000   18,000   18,000  12,000   66,000
Asst. managers (admin.)
- orientation                 9,600         -         -         -        -    9,600
- upgrading                       -    9,600    9,600    4,800           -   24,000
Field officers
- orientation                18,580   27,870    9,290           -        -   55,740
- upgrading                       -   20,940   20,940   20,940  20,940   83,760
Administrative staff
- orientation                11,560    5,780          -         -        -   17,340
- upgrading                       -    8,140    8,140    8,140           -   24,420
Subtotal                   51,740  101,130   75,570   61,480  32,940  322,860
Headquarters/Provincial
Offices
Senior managers
- orientation                     -    9,600    4,800    4,800           -   19,200
- upgrading                       -         -         -    9,600   9,600   19,200
Technical staff
- orientation                     -   15,700   15,700    7,850           -   39,250
- upgrading                       -         -         -   11,900  17,850   29,750
Administrative staff
- orientation                     -   15,700    7,850    7,850           -   31,400
- upgrading                       -         -         -   11,900  11,900   23,800
Subtotal                         -   41,000   28,350   53,900  39,350  162,600
Total                      51,740  142,130  103,920  115,380  72,290  485,460



ANNEX 9
72 -                               Table 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(In US$ million in current prices)
Total       Loan       Disbursement
cost      proceeds          rate
/a            (%)
A.  Credit Component
1.  Machinery and farm equipment
and polybags                             2.4        1.7             75/b
2.  -Seednuts                                   6.5        5.8           100
3.  Urea                                        3.0        2.7           100
4.  Other fertilizers and chemicals            11.6        7.9             75/c
5.  Labor (nursery and onfarm)                 23.4       17.9            85
6.  Seed garden                                 1.6        1.0            85
7.  Retroactive financing                       0.6        0.4             -/d
8.  Other credit expenditures                   6.4
Subtotal                             55.5       37.4
B. Noncredit Component
9.  Tractors and trailers                       0.7        0.5            75/b
10.  Consultant services                         1.8        1.8           100
11.  Studies                                     1.9        1.8           100
12.  CWC expenditures (except
tractor/trailer)                        15.7        -                -
13.  H0 and PO expenditures                     18.4        -
14.  Training expenditures                       1.2        -
C.  UJnalLocated                                               4.5
Total                                95.2       46.0
/a  Approximately 90% of the disbursable amount of each item is treated as
"allocated" and balance 10% is "unallocated."
/b  Equal to:  (i) 100% of foreign expenditures; 95% of local expenditures
(ex-factory); and 65% of locally procured imported items.
/c 100% of foreign expenditures; or 65% of locally procured imported items.
/d For items 1 through 5 under the credit component.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
- 73 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year (FY)                                       Cumulative disbursements
and semester                                                  (US$ million)
FY81
First                                                       0.4
Second                                                      1.7
FY82
First                                                       3.6
Second                                                      7.3
FY83
First                                                      10.7
Second                                                     15.6
FY84
First                                                      20.6
Second                                                     26.3
FY85
First                                                      31.9
Second                                                     37.5
FY86
First                                                      42.3
Second                                                     46.0



ANNEK 10
Appendix A
Page 1 of 5
- 74 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guidelines for Project Accounting
General
1.        The project involves three GOI organizational units (the Coconut
Working Centers-CWCs, the Provincial Offices-POs, the Head Office-HO),/l
and Bank Rakyat Indonesia - BRI (for the credit component). The following
general guidelines have been prepared to assist HO, but it will be necessary
to have a continuous review of the system during implementation and to
finalize detailed requirements.
Project Accounts
2.        HO, POs and CWC's are Government units, and accounting in such
units is usually done on a cash basis. The project accounting system would
follow this basis. The system should be uniform to facilitate consolida-
tion./2 CWC's would prepare their own accounts. Each PO would prepare its
own accounts and consolidate the accounts of project CWC's within its
jurisdiction, while HO will consolidate its own accounts with the provincial
data.
3.        For a start, it would be adequate if final accounts are prepared
in the form of Receipts and Payments Accounts (RPA) for the three GOI units. /3
RPA would be a summary of the transactions for the accounting periods
(para. 4). The summaries should give sufficient details regarding sources
of funds, and types of payments. Credit and noncredit transactions should be
grouped separately.
4.        RPA should be prepared quarterly and the following format is
recommended for this statement:
/1 The CWC's are the project management units and would implement the
project at the field level within each province; each province would
have an office - PO, to supervise and coordinate the CWC activities; and
HO (at headquarters, in Jakarta) would be responsible for the whole
project.
/2 The accounts classification and codes should be the same for HO, PO's and
CWC's.
/3 Accrual accounting and preparation of balance sheets could be considered
at a later stage, if necessary.



ANNEX 10
Appendix A
- 75 -                          Page 2 of 5
RECEIPTS AND PAYMENTS ACCOUNT FOR THE QUARTER ENDED --------
(in thousand rupiah)
Cumulative for   Budget    Total project
This quarter    financial year    for   transactions todate
Budget  Actual   Budget  Actual    year         (Actuals)
RECEIPTS
________________
EXPENDITURE
___________________
Subsidiary Books and Records
5.        Subsidiary books and records should be maintained by all the
project entities. The specific requirements are given in Table 1, from
which appropriate project related statements and reports could be prepared.
6.        All books and records should be checked periodically; at the
provincial and CWC levels, such checking would be done by the respective
managers, while at HO, suitable staff would be delegated for this task.
Cash in hand and stocks (inventories) should be checked frequently while
fixed assets should be verified at least annually.
Management Information and Control
7.        HO would be responsible for setting up and implementing:  (a) an
internal control system for the project; (b) a budgetary contrul system;
and (c) a management information system. Managers at each level would be
responsible for preparation of their own budgets and for the control of
their units. PO managers, would, in addition to their own office
responsibilities, also oversee the CWCs. Based on annual budgets, each unit
should prepare, in addition to the RPA, a cash forecast for the subsequent
quarter. This too would be consolidated for the project.
Credit Aspects
8.        Since DGE /1 is responsible for keeping the accounts of farmers
during the early development period (first three years), the CWC Manager, in
/1 Directorate General of Estates.



ANNEX 10
Appendix A
- 76 -                           Page 3 of 5
consultation with BRI (para. 9), will be responsible for keeping individual
farmer loan records during this period. Farmers should be given annual
statements of account /1 for confirmation and return to the CWC managers.
9.        BRI.  Although BRI would only be a channeling agent during the
early period (first three years of on-farm development), it will be
requested to make some payments during this period related to the credit
component; (e.g. payments to P.T. Pusri for purchase of urea, payments to
farmers as reimbursement for their labor on farm development, etc.). Proper
records should be maintained by BRI for these payments, and these should be
reconciled with the CWC records.
10.       BRI will be responsible for maintaining all credit accounts after
the first three years of the particular accounts. Project related accounts
should be prepared quarterly by BRI. These accounts and statements will be
drawn up in consultation with the financial adviser. They will include:
statement of loans made under the project (classified by CWC), showing
changes in the amounts of such loans (opening balance, advances, repayments,
extensions and closing balances); a separate analysis should be available
regarding arrears of interest and/or principal, classified by age.
Bank Loan Disbursement Register
11.       Since HO would be responsible for making withdrawal applications
for the proceeds of the Bank loan, it should have a proper register to
record the information. This is a very important requirement and a format
is given in Table 1, page 2.
/1   These statements should, as far as practicable, give a breakdown
of the loan balances (e.g. fertilizers (Rp ), labor (Rp ).



ANNEX 10
Appendix A
Table 1
- 77 -                           Page 4 of 5
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Records for Project Accounting
I. Coconut Working Centers
1.1 Final accounts - Receipts and Payments account.
1.2  Frequency - quarterly.
1.3  Other Records
(a) Cash book - showing full details of receipts and payments of
cash.
(b) Fixed assets register - showing details of fixed assets pur-
chased (or constructed), including dates and costs. Names
and addresses of suppliers should also be noted.
(c) Salary book - for monthly paid staff.
(d) Staff advances register - for travel and other advances.
(e) Wages registers (checkrolls) - for daily paid staff, includ-
ing nursery labor.
(f) Stock books - for items such as polybags, fertilizers, chem-
icals, etc., showing receipts, issues and balances (quan-
tities only); also for items such as vehicle and tractor
tires, diesel, oil, etc.
(g) Nursery register - for coconut seed, showing full details
regarding coconut seed received, planted in prenursery,
the number transferred to nursery, and the final numbers
issues as seedlings./l
(h) Register of issues to farmers - e.g. seedlings, fertilizers,
etc. These should be supported by detailed lists, duly
signed by the farmers acknowledging receipt of the materials.
(i) Nursery accounts - showing final cost of seedlings (based on
total labor and material inputs and other services). (See
Annex 8, Table 2).
(j) Register of payments to farmers - showing amounts reimbursed
for labor on farm development./2
(k) Vehicle log book - showing details of journeys, mileage,
etc.
/1 With remarks on rejections; e.g. off-type, substandard growth, diseased
plants, etc. Discarded seednuts/plants should be destroyed in the pre-
sence of a responsible officer and certified accordingly.
/2 Actual payments would be made by BRI, but the lists would be prepared
by the CWCs.



ANNEX 10
Appendix A
Table 1
-78 -                            Page 5 of 5
II. Provincial Offices
2.1 Final accounts - Receipts and Payments Account.
2.2 Frequency - quarterly.
2.3 Other Records
(a) Cash book (as in the CWCs).
(b) Fixed assets register (as in the CWCs).
(c) Salary book (as in the CWCs).
(d) Staff advances register (as in the CWCs).
(e) Stock book - for fertilizers, and for other items such as
tires.
(f) Vehicle log books.
(g) Contracts register.
III. Head Office
3.1 The accounts and subsidiary records would be similar to those
required for the Provincial Offices. HO would also institute an
appropriate management information system.
3.2 Bank Loan Disbursement Register (para. 11)
The following format is recommended:
Re Withdrawal Application                        Re Disbursement
Appli-
cation                 Category                  Reference
Date  number  Description  procedure /1  Amount /2   & date   Amount /3  Remarks
/1  Whether reimbursement (procedure I), or direct payment to supplier
(procedure III).
/2 In currency of claim and rupiah equivalent.
/3 In dollar and rupiah equivalents.



ANNEX 10
- 79 -                           Appendix B
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Statements of Expenditure
1.        Accounting guidelines for the project are given in Appendix A of
this Annex.
2.         Statements of expenditure should be traceable to the project
accounts and would be used for disbursement on the following items:/1
(a) family labor ($20.0 million) and nursery labor ($3.4 million); (b)
seednuts ($6.5 million) and seed garden costs ($1.6 million). The
disbursements would be made on work performed, as certified in quarterly
disbursement requests prepared by HO. Unit costs would be agreed before hand
by the Bank staff supervising the project, based on up-to-date cost data.
3.         Supporting data would be available as follows: (a)  Nursery labor
- CWC records (Appendix A, Table 1); (b) Family labor - certified
statements of payment from BRI; these could be cross-checked with CWC
payment requests (Appendix A, Table 1); (c) Seednuts - certified statement
from HO, details of seednuts purchased and the relevant transport costs; (d)
Seed garden costs - certified statements from the PNP/PTP concerned, with
supporting information.
/1 All costs are in current prices.



ANNEX 11
Appendix A
- 80-                            Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Studies
A. Copra Processing, Marketing and Coconut Byproducts
I. Government-s Objectives
The present system of copra processing and marketing is the source
of several problems facing the coconut subsector. Government is well aware
of these difficulties, but before any policy decisions can be introduced,
detailed analysis of the issues is necessary, and thus, a copra processing
and marketing study is proposed to be financed under the project. Govern-
ment's objectives with respect to processing and marketing, around which this
study is centered, are as follows:
1.1 To improve copra quality and marketing. To this end the study will
identify social, economic and organizational factors influencing
farmer responsiveness to improving the quality of their copra and
identify actions and policies necessary to improve copra quality
and marketing.
1.2 To rationalize the location of copra processing plants and coconut
and palm oil refining plants. The study will determine the social
and economic impact of eliminating the copra allocation system and
expanding processing capacity in the other Islands and also
ascertain the optimal location of coconut and palm oil refining
plants.
1.3 To increase utilization of coconut by-products. The study will
ascertain the prospects for processing coconut by-products and
make recommendations to increase utilization of by-products.
1.4 To rationalize the present taxation system in the coconut industry
and increase cost recovery. The study will review the present
credit and taxation systems in the coconut industry, recommend
improvements and suggest means of increasing cost recovery.
Detailed terms of reference for the study are presented in Sec-
tions II- V below.



ANNEX 11
Appendix A
-81 -                            Page 2 of 3
II. Village Level Processing
2.1 GLjective
To recommend measures to improve the quality of copra produced
by smallholders in Indonesia.
2.2 Outline of Study
(a) Current drying technology used by farmers in Indonesia and
quality of copra produced; (b) marketing arrangements in
major copra producing areas and extent to which these
arrangements encourage or discourage the production of good
quality copra; (c) economic losses to the economy
attributable to poor quality of copra production.
2.3  Recommendations
(a) Kiln technology most suitable for coconut smallholders; (b)
should group processing be encouraged, and if so, who would be
most suitable agency for operating such facilities (e.g.
cooperatives, CWCs, private sector organizations); (c) price
and quality control policy; (d) marketing arrangements.
III. Marketing and Processing
3.1 Objective
To examine the overall efficiency of the current system of
copra marketing and processing beyond village level and to prepare a
development strategy for the processing industry.
3.2  Outline
Provincial distribution of coconut production
(a) yields; (b) whether sold fresh or for copra production
(c) regional price trends; (d) Level of planting/replanting in
recent years; (e) projected coconut production by province;
(f) transportation - mode and availability.
3.3  Regional distribution of processing capacity
(a) level of productive capacity; (b) level of capacity utili-
zation; (c) technical efficiency; (d) source of copra.
3.4 Employment in processing industry by province.



ANNEX 11
Appendix A
- 82 -                           Page 3 of 3
3.5 Impact of present system of market regulations by Bapengko on
(a) level of competition in the industry; (b) farm-gate prices
of copra received by farmers; (c) price of coconut and other
edible oils in consuming areas; (d) location of milling and
refining industry; (e) employment in the subsector; (f) costs
of production of edible oils; (g) pattern of edible oil produc-
tion and consumption.
3.6  Recommendations
(a) marketing policy; (b) price policy; (c) regional location
policy; (d) need for additional capacity in major producing areas.
3.7 Data Sources. Bapengko, Asian and Pacific Coconut Community and
DG Cooperatives.
IV. Cost Recovery
4.1 Objectives:
(a) To determine present extent of cost recovery through taxation
and credit.
(b) To recommend improvements in taxation and credit systems in the
coconut industry to increase equity and cost recovery.
V. Coconut By-products
5.1 Objective. To recommend measures which would increase the level
of utilization of coconut by-products (from stem, husk, shell, etc.)
5.2 Outline of Study. (a) Present utilization of coconut by-products
in Indonesia; (b) potential for further utilization of coconut
by-products in Indonesia.
5.3 Recommendations. Policies required to stimulate utilization of
coconut by-products.



ANNEX Il
Appendix B
- 83 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Studies
A. Existing Coconut Holdings
1. Objectives
1.1   To improve the data base for DGE's computerized monitoring system.
1.2   To select priority areas for coconut development projects.
1.3   To determine the extent to which future projects (a) should be
geographically intensive (like the SCDP) or extensive and (b)
should focus on new planting or replanting.
2. Outline of Study
2.1   Area - the 14 provinces included in SCDP (Annex 1).
2.2   Age of plantings.
2.3   Average yield.
2.4   Extent of nonproductive trees.
2.5   Size distribution of holdings.
2.6   Average income (by source) and income distribution of coconut
farmers.
2.7   Extent of share participation (harvesting, copra drying).
2.8   Use of inputs.
2.9   Interest im rehabilitation and/or replanting.
3. Data Sources
3.1   Existing reports on sector, to determine what information gaps
need to be filled.
3.2   Aerial photography.
3.3   Sample inspections on the ground.
3.4   Farmer interviews.



ANNEX 11
Appendix C
- 84 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Studies
C. Feasibility of Areas Proposed for Follow-up Project
1. Objective: To determine which areas are suitable for expanded
coconut planting under a follow-up project (SCDP II); approximately
what areas of new planting and replanting should be included, and
areas for rehabilitation.
2.  Outline of Study.  Maps of area showing: (a)  location of towns and
villages with population figures; (b) communications - roads, tracks and
rivers, showing distances between main centers; (c) present land
utilization (e.g. estates, smallholder coconut, other tree crops, sawah,
upland arable, scrub/alang-alang, forest); (d) topography and soils -
indication of slopes and distribution of main soil types.
3. Tables of: (a) rainfall and other available climatic records; (b)
statistics on smallholder coconut by Kecamatan-area, age of plantings (%
distribution), average yield, extent of share cropping; (c) coconut
processing facilities - volume handled (monthly); (d) coconut marketing
system - prices at different stages for each grade of copra or fresh nuts
(monthly, for the past 12 months), list licensed dealers; (e) size
distribution of holdings of coconuts and other crops; (f) farm income
from: (i) coconuts; (ii) other crops; and (iii) off-farm employment
(specify types available in locality).
4. Explanations of: (a) labor situation (wages, landless families, skilled
labor); (b) availability of land for agricultural development (with
reference to maps); (c) availability of tractors (and equipment); (d)
main problems affecting production of coconuts; (e) operation of other
development schemes in area (e.g. BItIAS)
5. Data Sources. (a) aerial photography with ground control; (b) inter-
views with representative sample of farmers and traders; (c) local
officials.



-  85  -                                                              ANNEX 12
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Copra and Food Crop Production
('000 tons)
Talls           Talls
Talls        development   intensification        Copra
Hybrid      new planting    incremental      incremental       production        Total         Intercropping         Intercropping
copra          copra          copra            copra          forgone due    incremental       with hybrids           with talls
Proje.-    reduction     production      production       production      to replantinj      copra         15.950 ha /a           2,850 ha /a
Year    i,900 ha /a    5,700 ha La    3,500 ha /a       37,900 ha /a     8,470 ha /a    production      Rice    Groundnut    Rice    Groundnut
1I-                         -              -                 -            -0.3          -0.3           0.5       0.3         0.8       0.5
2            -              -               -                -            -1.0           -1.0          1.6        1.1        1.4       0.9
3            -              -               -              0.6            -2.2           -1.6          3.4        2.3        1.5       1.0
4            -              -               -              2.9            -3.6           -0.7          5.1        3.4        1.4       0.9
5            -              -               -              7.4            -5.1            2.3          6.5       4.4         1.2       0.8
6          1.8              -               -             13.3            -5.1           10.0          4.0        2.8        0.6       0.4
7          8.2            1.4            0.9              19.6            -5.1           25.0          1.7       1.2         0.2       0.1
8         22.1            3.7             1.8             21.7            -5.1           44.2            -          -        0.1         -
9         44.7            6.6             2.8             22.7            -5.1           71.1            -          -          -         -
10         74.8            8.9            3.2              22.7            -5.1          104.5            -         -           -         -
11         98.1           10.4            3.5              22.3            -5.1          129.2            -         -           -         -
12        112.3           11.8            3.9              21.2            -5.1          144.1            -         -           -         -
13        122A1           12.5            3.9              19.4            -5.1          152.8            -         -           -         -
14        124.1           12.8            3.9              17.2            -5.1          152.9            -         -           -         -
15        124.1           12.8            3.9              15.2            -5.1          150.9            -         -           -         -
16        124.1           12.8            3.9              14.4            -5.1          150.1            -         -           -         -
17        124.1           12.8             3.9             12.1            -5.1          147.8            -         -           -         -
18        124.1           12.8            3.9               8.4            -5.1          144.1            -         -           -         -
19        124.1           12.8            3.9               4.2            -5.1          139.9            -         -           -         -
20        124.1           12.8             3.9                -            -5.1          135.3            -         -           -         -
21        123.7           12.8             3.9                -            -4.8          135.6            -         -           -         -
22        122.5           12.8             3.9                -            -4.1          135.1            -         -           -         -
23        120.4           12.8             3.9                -            -2.9          134.1            -         -           -         -
24        117.7           12.8             3.9                -            -1.5          132.8            -          -          -         -
25        114.6           12.8             3.9                -               -          131.2            -         -           -         -
26        114.4           12.8             3.9                -               -          131.1            -         -    -                -
27        114.0           12.8             3.9                -               -          130.7            -         -
28        113.3           12.8             3.9                -               -          130.0            -          -          -         -
29        102.3           12.8             3.9                -               -          129.0            -         -           -         -
30        111.3           12.8             3.9                -               -          128.0            -         -           -         -
31        110.8           12.8             3.9                -               -          127.5            -         -           -         -
32        109.8           12.8            3.9                 -               -          126.5            -         -           -         -
33        107.9           12.8             3.9                -               -          124.6            -         -           -         -
34        105.5           12.8             3.9                -               -          122.2            -         -           -         _
35        102.6           12.8             3.5                -               -          118.9            -         -           -         -
36        102.2           12.2             3.5                -               -          117.9            -         -           _         _
33        101.1           11.7             3.5                -               -          116.2            -         -           -         -
38         98.9           11.5             3.5                -               -          113.9            -         -           -         -
39         96.2           11.4             3.5                -               -          111.1            -         -           -         -
40         93.2           11.4             2.8                -               -          107.4            -         -
41         88.5           11.1             2.8                -               -          102.4            -         -           -         -
42         76.8           10.9             2.8                -               -           90.7            -         -           -         -
43         56.4           10.9             2.8                -               -           70.1            -         -           -         -
44         29.8           10.8             2.8                -               -           43.5            -         -           -         -
45            -           10.8             2.5                -               -           13.3            -         -           -         -
46            -           10.3             2.5                -               -           12.8            -         -           -         -
47            -            9.9             2.5                -               -           12.4            -         -           -         -
48            -            9.8             2.5                -               -           12.3            -         -           -         -
49            -            9.7             2.5                -               -           12.2            -         -           -         -
50            -              -             2.5                -               -            2.5            -         -           -         -
/a At full production.



- 86 -                                                  ANNEX 13
Table
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Price Calculations
(March 1980 prices) /a
Fertilizers
Copra        Urea         TSP         KC1       Kieserite   Rock phosphate
…------------------------- US$ per ton -----------------------------
World Bank forecast 1990 price in
1978 $                                   498          180         165          83                          39
1990 price in March 1980 $                 596         .215         197          99                          47
Basis of World Bank price                c.i.f.       Bagged       f.o.b.    f.o.b.                        F.AS
N. Europe   N. Europe   US Gulf   Vancot xer                    Casa Blanca
Basis for calculation                   Imp. P.      Exp. P       Imp. P.   Imp. P                      Imp. P
Ocean freight adjustment                   -26/b        +15/c        50/d        45/e                         14
F.o.b. main Indonesian port/
ex-factory                               570          230         247         144          149/e           61
…----------------Rp'000 -----------------
Currency conversion (US$1 - Rp 625)        356          144         154          90           93              38
Unloading/port costs /f                      5          N/A *         5           5            5               5
Value at store in main port                361          144         159          95           98             43
Local distribution costs /                 N/A           26          26          26           26              26
Trader's/interisland shipper's
costs /b                                  36          N/A         N/A         N/A          N/A            N/A
Copra collector's costs /i                  12          N/A         N/A         N/A          N/A            N/A
Adjustment for losses Li                    15          N/A         N/A         N/A          N/A            N/A
Cost of drying to 5% moisture /k            30          N/A         N/A         N/A          N/A            N/A
Farm-gate/CWC price (1990) /1              268          170         185         121          124             69
Farm-gate Economic Price
1980                                     257          140-        141         101          124             62
1981                                     264          140         149         105          124             62
1982                                     253          142         152         106          124             64
1985                                     291          170         195         111          124             69
1990                                     268          170         185         121          124             69
/a  March 1980 considered as average of 1979, 1980 plus 25% of 1980 inflation rate; i.e. international infla-
tion index is 119.63 with 1978 - 100.
/b  Ocean freight adjustment is difference between freight cost Manila-Amsterdam and Manila-Indonesia; i.e.
US$46 less US$20.
/c  Urea ex-Indonesia worth about USS15 more than f.o.b. Europe due to freight advantage for major markets.
/d  Includes bagging:  TSP Florida-Indonesia freight $30 plus bagging S20; KC1 Vancouver-Indonesia freight
$25 plus bagging $20.
/e  No World Bank forecast.  Taken as May 1979 price $137.6 plus 10 months' international inflation - 8% to
give $149.
/f  Applies to imported goods.
7   For fertilizers:  March 1979 price Rp 21,000 plus 12 months' inflation - 22.5% - to give Rp 26,000.
/h  Estimated March 1979 costs Rp 29,000 plus 22.5% inflation = Rp 36,000.  Excludes taxes.
/i  Estimated transport costs of Rp 6,000 plus Rp 4,000/ton to cover overheads (March 1q79) plus 12 months'
inflation at 22.5%.
/ Estimated at 5% actual material loss due to insects and spoilage.
7k  Copra sold ex-farm on the basis of 15% moisture content, compared with 5% for internationally traded
copra.
/1  Price for copra with 15% moisture content.
* N/A - Not applicable.



- 87 -
ANNEX 14
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies Relating to Agricultural Sector
Al World Bank, Commodity Price Forecasts - "January 1980".
B.   Studies Relating to the Project
Bl FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Preparation Report
"Indonesia - Hybrid Coconut Introduction Support Project"
(2 volumes)
C.   Selected Working Papers and Maps
C1    Implementation Volume - Nurseries and Field Development
C2    Availability of Hybrid Coconut Seednuts
C3    Developing 1 ha Recently Planted Talls - Yields, Sales and Costs
C4    Summarized Total Project Costs
C5    Supporting Working Papers for Project Costs
C6    Guidelines for Independent Auditors
C7    Draft Monitoring and Reporting Proposals
C8    Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants
C9.1 Map 14960 - Project Location - Sulawesi, Maluku
c9.2 Map 14887 - Project Location - Sumatra



- 88 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
*                DIRECTOR GENERAL OF ESTATES
Special Team
for Externally
Assisted Projects
' ....................Head Office
Manager
echnica                                         Amn.                 Finance
Division                                       Division             Division
Head                                           Head                 Head
Planning
Coconut Planting                               Personnel             Budgets
Rehabilitation                                 General Affairs      Cash
Training and                                   Procurement          Accounting
Extension                                                            Credit
Monitoring
Provincial Estate Crop  .                              Provincial Office
Service IDPD)                                           Manaqer
Tehnical                           Adi n               F in a nce
Division                           Division Dnvision
Head                               Head                 Head
Nurseries                           Personne               Plannirig
Coconut Planting                    General Affairs        Budgets
Rehabilitation                      Procurement            Cash
Training & Extension                Stores                 Accounting
Monitoring & Eva'uation             Distribut on of        Credo t
inputs
CWC
World Bank   21555
a/ Dinas Perkebunan Uaerah
b/ See separate Organization Chart.



- 89 -
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart - Coconut Working Center
ASSISTANT         ASSISTANT                    ASSISTANT
MANAGERS           MANAGER                     MANAGER
(Technical)       (Nurseries)                (Administration)
FIELD                     .VADMINISTRATION
EXTENSION                                      ASSISTANTS
(6)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
..........   .........
|CONTACT l
|FARMvER l
FARMER
GROU P
World Bank - 21 556






IBRD 14886
!NCI                                                                                                                   PHIUPPI'NES                                       INDQNESIA
A-6
I-   MALHOLDk  CiOCONUT DEVFLOP#VT                                            i c
Sod,    Cbi,,   S, :                                                                                                                                                                            ;,
X
PRQJtCT LO.CATION
MALAYIIA
NW
C-P- W-,ki,,q C.mm
m
11                                                   n           Hyb,,d Ued God*
2,0
12
J;T                                                                  P,
'NSIW4TR4                                                               C- MALAYSA                                                    Fl TM  MIA
j  - 411MANFA,N                                                            WAIANHEkA
SINGAPOR
C,
'A  I  I M  A,'IN T,   N
N
-7  MALUgU
A
1:11A
8ENG)kUzL(1,)                                                                                                                                     k4            _1                        , ,  A'    4,J
RURIM-                                                                                                               14,U
I T
MP                                                                                                                         !Lo.,
4 I                                                                     z
Pt
Cl- ",77, ow-
JAKARTA   f A                                             FZ
AF5T JAVA
CENT,9AL
o n                                                            E41T
5w    w   'M       ,ET691



