Document of                  TIE C P
The World Bank                     ILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2864-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 17, 1980
This documest bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performnce of
| thelr offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bfnk  tration.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00           -  Rp 625
Rp 100            -  US$0.160
Rp I million (M) - US$1,600
GLOSSARY AND ABRREVIATIONS
Alang-Alang   A coarse grass (Imperata cylindrica)
BAPENGKO       Copra Management Board
BAPPENAS       National Development Planning Agency
BI             Bank Indonesia (the Central Bank)
BIMAS          Short-term farm-input credit program
BRI            Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CE             Copra equivalent
CWC            Coconut lWorking Center
DGE            Directorate General of Estates
DPD            Dinas Perkebunan Daerah (Provincial Estate-Crop Service)
DTE            Dana Tanaman Ekspor (Export Crops Fund)
HO             Head Office
MAWA           Coconut hybrid, Malaysian Yellow Dwarf x West African Tall
NES            Nucleus Estate and Smallholders Project
PLPT           Field Extension Officer of Integrated Project
PNP/PTP        State-owned large estates
PO             Provincial Office
REPELITA III  Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979/80-1983/84)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            $46 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 9.25% p.a.
Relending terms:  Loans for smallholders ($37.4 million) would be on-lent
by Government to Bank Rakyat Indonesia at zero percent
interest and then to the smallholders at 6% p.a. Loan and
interest-free grace periods range from 10-year loan/three-
year grace period for rehabilitation of mature holdings to
20-year loan/eight-year grace period for planting tall
varieties. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the
Government.
Project
Description:    The project-s main objectives are to increase the incomes
of about 40,000 smallholder families, some 20% of whom are
in the poverty group; to increase coconut production
especially on the Other Islands; to reduce imports; and to
build the institutional framework for the national coconut
development program. In particular, the project would:
(a) plant, replant, and maintain until maturity, about
37,600 ha of coconuts of which about 85% would be with high
yielding hybrid material; and develop about 3,500 ha of
immature coconuts (local tall variety); (b) rehabilitate
about 38,000 ha of mature coconuts; (c) establish three 180
ha hybrid seed gardens; (d) strengthen 70 existing Coconut
Working Centers (CWCs), and establish and staff 15 provin-
cial offices and a Head Office; (e) provide training and
technical assistance; and (f) finance studies covering, in
particular, the copra marketing and processing system, and
the preparation of future projects. The two main risks in
the proposed project are inexperienced management and a low
subloan repayment rate by farmers. The proposed project
includes measures to minimize these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanrc
of their official dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost /1                            Local        Foreign        Total
- - - - - - $ million
Credit component
Nursery development                         7.3           3.4           10.7
On-farm development                        17.0           7.1           24.1
Seed gardens                                0.9           0.4            1.3
Subtotal                                25.2          10.9           36.1
Non-credit component
Coconut working centers                     8.1           3.2           11.3
Head office & provincial offices            9.8           1.8           11.6
Technical assistance & studies              0.8           2.0            2.8
Training                                    0.7           0.1            0.8
Subtotal                                19.4           7.1           26.5
Total base costs                           44.6          18.0           62.6
Physical contingencies                      4.4           1.8            6.2
Price contingencies                        21.2           5.2           26.4
Total project costs                        70.2          25.0           95.2
Financing Plan                           Local        Foreign        Total
- - - - - - $ million    -       -
Bank                              23.0           23.0          46.0
Government                        30.5            2.0          32.5
Bank Indonesia                    13.5              -           13.5
Bank Rakyat Indonesia              3.2              -            3.2
Total                        70.2           25.0          95.2
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY         1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Annual          1.7    5.6    8.3   10.7   11.2    8.5
Cumulative      1.7    7.3   15.6   26.3   37.5   46.0
Rate of Return:  19% based on 94% of project costs for which benefits have
been quantified.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 2939-IND, dated July 7, 1980.
/1 Including taxes of about $0.6 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $46 million to help finance
a Smallholder Coconut Development Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including five years of grace, with interest at 9.25% per annum. The
proceeds of the loan would be relent to smallholders for periods ranging
from 10 to 20 years, including grace periods of from three to eight years,
with interest at 6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Prog-
ress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980) was distributed to the
Executive Directors earlier this year.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago nation of more than
13,000 islands covering a land area in excess of two million sq km. With
over 135 million people, it is the world's fifth most populous nation.  The
population density exceeds 650 persons per sq km in Java, where 65% of the
population live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of
the country. Over 82% of the population live in rural areas; and although
agriculture only accounts for slightly over 30% of GDP, about 62% of total
employment is still found in the agricultural sector. GNP per capita is
estimated at about $360.12
4.        Over the last thirteen years, Indonesia's economic, social and
institutional development has surpassed that of most other heavily populated,
poor countries. Although the new government in 1966 inherited a severely
dislocated and bankrupt economy, it rapidly brought hyperinflation under
control, established full convertibility of the currency and regained the
confidence of western creditors. During the First Development Plan period,
Pelita I (1969/70 to 1973/74), a major rehabilitation of the neglected
infrastructure was initiated, the investment rate was doubled to 18% of GDP
and an average real GDP growth rate of over 9% p.a. was achieved. During
Repelita II, (1974/75 to 1978/79) economic activity was fueled by a dramatic
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President-s Report on the Ninth Power
Project (No. P-2825-IND), circulated under cover of R80-139, dated
May 23, 1980 and approved by the Executive Directors on June 12, 1980.
12 1978 figures. World Bank Atlas, 1979.



- 2 -
increase in foreign exchange resources resulting from the world commodity
boom, the quadrupling of oil prices and expanded public and private foreign
capital inflows. Net oil exports increased from $640 million in 1973 to
$4.0 billion /1 in 1978, which enabled real Government expenditure to increase
by 20% annually and encouraged a 7% average annual GDP growth rate. Not all
sectors have shared in this growth. In particular, the performance of
nonextractive exports, with some exceptions, such as coffee and palm oil, has
been disappointing; rubber exports, for example, have stagnated since 1971,
and manufactured exports are only now giving any indication of sustained
growth. In addition, there has been little evidence, despite increased
foreign exchange resources, that the post-oil future of the economy has been
assured through a broad-based expansion of the industrial sector.
Social Developments
5.        While there is general agreement that overall growth in the economy
- an annual rate of almost 8% over ten years /2 - has been impressive, views
diverge on the degree to which the poor have shared in this increased income.
The National Household Surveys for 1970 and 1976 indicate that while overall
income disparities almost certainly widened between those two dates, there was
nevertheless a considerable improvement in the consumption of all income
groups, with real consumption expenditure of the bottom 40% of the population
probably increasing at between 3.5% and 5.5% annually. Growth in per capita
income was generally higher in Java than in the Other Islands and higher in
urban than in rural areas.
6.        Employment growth has been rapid in the 1970s (an average of 4.7%
p.a. between 1971 and 1976, compared with a total population growth of 2%).
However, it is likely that there has been a slight increase in the level of
open unemployment due to a greater rate of growth of working age population
than of total population and to increased participation rates (50% in
September 1971, 55% in October 1976). Most (54%) of the increased employment
during this period was absorbed in nonagricultural activities, resulting in a
decline in the share of agricultural employment from 66% to 62%. Within the
nonagricultural sector, employment increases largely resulted from proliferat-
ing small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors, where
productivity is generally extremely low.
7.        Government-sponsored programs deserve at least part of the credit
for many of the major advances of the last decade. In particular, the BIMAS
and INMAS rice intensification schemes and the Government public works
(INPRES) programs have demonstrated the Government's capacity to marshal
resources in pursuit of its social goals. Between 1971/72 and 1976/77 real
expenditures increased at an annual average rate of 37% on Health and Family
Planning, 45% on Education, and 31% on Housing and Water Supply, resulting in
/1 Includes Liquified Natural Gas ($225 million).
/2 Gross Domestic Income grew even faster, at about 9.5% p.a., due to
improvements in the terms of trade.



- 3 -
the rapid development of social infrastructure. For example, Indonesia's
health centers, which totalled 1,058 in 1969, were increased to 4,029 by 1977;
between 1973 and 1978, 31,000 primary schools were constructed and primary
school enrollment was expected to reach 86% in 1979, up from 78% in 1970.
Perhaps the most significant achievement of the First and Second Development
Plans has been the success of the National Family Planning Program,
established in 1970, in reducing the overall population growth rate to below
2%. Fertility rates have fallen by almost 20% on Java and Bali, where almost
30% of married women in the reproductive age group are practicing modern
methods of contraception.
8.        Despite these advances, however, the magnitude of the poverty prob-
lem, the lack of food security, and the inadequacy of basic public services
remain overwhelming. In 1976, an estimated 50 million people, over one third
of Indonesia's total population, spent less than $90 a year (at 1976 prices
and exchange rate) and a large proportion of the labor force was seriously
underemployed in both rural and urban areas. Moreover, the continued pre-
valence of numerous debilitating diseases, which often stem directly from
nutritional deficiencies and unsanitary living conditions, results in
extremely low life expectancy at birth and a very high mortality rate.
Life expectancy at birth in Indonesia is only 47 years (most recent estimate)
compared with 60 years in the Philippines and 67 years in Malaysia. For the
same countries, infant mortality rates are respectively 126, 65 and 35 per
thousand. Every year in Indonesia approximately 600,000 infants less than
one year old die. These statistics reflect both low incomes and the under-
lying inadequacy of basic public services. Over 100 million Indonesians
remain without access to safe water or sanitary excreta disposal; there are
only 6 physicians and 6 nurses per 100,000 of the population; and almost 40%
of the adult population are illiterate.
Development Strategy in the Nonoil Economy
9.        The rehabilitation of infrastructure which has made possible the
impressive growth rate over the last decade and which has underpinned past
development policy must now give way to a new strategy as the task of
rehabilitation is now essentially completed. The Government has recognized
this in preparing the Third Development Plan, Repelita III (1979/80 to
1983/84). Three primary goals have been specified: a more equitable
distribution of the benefits of growth, a high growth rate, and national
stability. A high priority must now be given to the industrial sector
since neither agriculture nor services can be expected to absorb the
large projected increases in the labor force (1.4 million p.a. up to the
year 2000) and simultaneously ensure rising real wage rates.
10.       The prospects for an outward-looking labor-intensive industrial
development have been improved by some of the policy actions taken in recent
months. The most dramatic of these was the devaluation of the rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar on November 15, 1978. Its purpose was to
reverse some of the adverse relative price changes in the economy that had
occurred earlier in the decade and thus to encourage a shift of resources
away from the nontraded goods sector towards labor-intensive import



- 4 -
substitution and export industries. In support of the aims of Repelita III
and the devaluation, the Government has also simplified the investment
licensing process and exporting procedures and introduced a system of export
certificates - tax rebates - to encourage exporters. A new corporation tax
law was pro-ilgated in March 1979 providing greater incentives to entre-
preneurs, particularly those in smaller-scale ventures and those using the
services of a public accountant. On the monetary side a start has been made
in making the commercial banking system more responsive to the needs of
small-scale enterprises.
11.       A detailed industrial development strategy has not yet been articu-
lated, although the Repelita III document acknowledges that private invest-
ment will be relied upon as the primary means of industrial job creation.
Despite the improvements outlined above, it is not yet clear that private
entrepreneurs will be able or willing to invest sufficiently in those
sectors most conducive to job creation and income growth. In particular
there are two issues that require urgent attention. First, although some
improvements have been made, many entrepreneurs still complain about cumber-
some administrative procedures and controls associated with the highly
centralized government bureaucracy. Second, the high level of effective
protection, which has increased over the last year, may encourage the
misallocation of scarce capital and managerial resources. Indonesia's
potential for manufactured exports is considerable but it is unlikely that
these exports will ever provide the stimulus to growth that has been enjoyed
by other smaller East Asian countries. In the medium term it is more likely
that Indonesia's "engine of growth" will be its own large domestic market.
However, it is important that barriers to trade be reduced in order to
provide appropriate market signals and to encourage those sectors in which
a genuine comparative advantage exists. The formal tariff structure is
probably less significant than the high administrative costs and delays
associated with importing. The important improvements made in exporting
procedures over the last year have demonstrated that rapid changes can be made
in this area. Similar advances on the import side would improve resource
allocation by reducing the proliferation of domestic industries that have
little prospect of ever attaining international competitiveness. In many
countries devaluation has been accompanied by a rationalization of the tariff
structure. Although this has not yet occurred in Indonesia, the recent
increases in oil revenues have, by substantially increasing foreign exchange
reserves, provided an additional opportunity.
Short-Run Stability and Long-Run Development
12.       Medium-term prospects for the balance of payments and the Govern-
ment budget have improved fundamentally in recent months. Three factors -
the devaluation, an improvement in the nonoil terms of trade, and the oil
price rise - have been responsible. The effect of the devaluation on the
external accounts is still not clear although there is some evidence of signi-
ficant supply-side response in some sectors. The improvement in the balance
of payments that followed immediately after November 1978 was due less to
the devaluation than to favorable developments in the world prices of



-5-
primary commodities./l As a result, Indonesia achieved an external surplus of
over $700 million in 1978/79. Most important, however, has been the increase
in the export price of crude oil to $32 a barrel in January 1980. This is
expected to generate additional oil and LNG export earnings of $3.1 billion in
1979/80. Budget revenues have also benefitted from these developments. Since
over half of the Government's revenues were denominated in foreign exchange,
an immediate effect of the devaluation was to dramatically increase budgetary
revenues in terms of rupiah. As a result of the oil price increases, budget
revenues from oil and LNG are predicted to rise from $3.7 billion in 1978/79
to $8.9 billion in 1979/80.
13.       These favorable developments, while clearly presenting a valuable
opportunity to undertake development programs and stimulate private industrial
enterprise, may also present serious problems of short-run price and monetary
stability. This potential conflict could be seen, for example, in the mea-
sures taken by the Government to ameliorate the inflationary effects of the
devaluation, which, while successful in keeping prices under control, some-
times tended to counteract the desired effects of the devaluation. Notable
here was the tight control exerted over private sector credit creation which
may have limited investment in those export sectors that the devaluation was
designed to encourage. In addition, the increased foreign exchange revenue
presents potentially difficult problems of monetary management. The manner in
which Indonesia increases its capacity to absorb imports effectively will be a
primary determinant of Indonesia's future growth prospects.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
14.       In the immediate future, the availability of foreign exchange will
not be a constraint on development due to both the increase in export revenues
and the consequent improvement in creditworthiness. (In 1979 Indonesia's
debt-service ratio has fallen from 18% to 16%)./2 In the medium and long
run, however, the situation is less clear, due to uncertainty about how
quickly Indonesia will be able to absorb its sudden increase in wealth, and
because projections of future export revenues remain highly speculative. It
is therefore important that increased efforts be made to mobilize domestic
financial resources. The Government's concern with this issue is demonstrated
by its stated intention of eliminating budget subsidies on consumer goods. To
this end, domestic prices of all oil products were increased by an average of
about 40% in April and May 1979, although the budget savings have since been
nullified by increases in international prices. There is considerable scope
for improving the nonoil tax base, which accounts for less than 45% of total
revenues. For example, taxes on personal and business incomes amount to only
3% of GNP, and taxes on consumption, 2.5% of GNP. Expanding the tax base,
eliminating loopholes, and improving administration, are the obvious means of
/1 The nonoil terms of trade improved by 42% between October 1978 and
July 1979.
/2 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



securing a larger and more equitable tax burden. The mobilization of private
sector financial resources is hindered at present by the absence of attractive
long-term financial instruments, but the Government's encouragement of the
fledgling Jakarta Stock Exchange will hopefully result in an important source
of domestic funds in the medium term.
15.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) remains the prin-
cipal source of external capital, including Official Development Assistance
(ODA), to the country. The Bank's 1979 basic economic report on Indonesia
recommended that total ODA reach at least $1.93 billion in 1979, of which at
least 70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms.  This recom-
mendation was achieved. The Bank's recent economic memorandum on Indonesia
(dated February 20, 1980) recommended a level of assistance of $2.1 billion
for 1980, which would represent no increase in real terms over the recommended
and actual amount of ODA for 1979. At the meeting of the IGGI in May 1980,
the indication of probable commitments in 1980 made by bilateral and
multilateral IGGI members amounted to almost this level.
16.       In the past selective local cost financing of projects has been
recommended since it was estimated that financing only the foreign exchange
cost of projects would mnt suffice to meet Indonesia's long-term capital
requirements. While temporarily Indonesia's foreign exchange position has
improved, projects for which loans are made now will disburse over a number
of years when Indonesia's external resource position is expected to be less
favorable. Selective local cost financing, particularly for projects with
a low foreign exchange component, would therefore still be justified.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
17.       As of April 30, 1980, Indonesia had received 47 IDA credits
totalling $901.8 million, and 47 Bank loans amounting to $2,733.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $62.2 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1978 was
about 8.3%, and the share of debt service about 3.0%.  By the end of 1979,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 9.5% and 4.8%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of April 30, 1980, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
18.       During Pelita I, and in line with the objectives of this First
Plan, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was directed toward the rehabi -
litation of deteriorated infrastructure and production facilities, meeting the
critical shortage of skilled manpower, and technical assistance needed for
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Ninth Power
Project (No. P-2825-IND), circulated under cover of R80-139, dated May 23,
1980 and approved by the Executive Directors on June 12, 1980.



preinvestment studies and project execution. As the focus of the Govern-
ment's policy shifted during Repelita II towards expansion of productive capa-
city in the agriculture, transportation and power sectors, as well as improve-
ment in the quality and delivery of basic public services, the thrust of our
lending changed to focus on these objectives. Given the critical importance
of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food security and
exports, over one third of Bank Group-supported projects have been in this
sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to other sectors of
the economy, including fertilizer production and distribution, transportation,
education, urban development, water supply, rural development, nutrition,
industrial development financing (including small industry development),
power, telecommunications, population and technical assistance.
19.       Indonesia is currently in the process of implementing its Third
Five-Year Plan, Repelita III. As noted in Part I above, this document, while
stressing the need for continued high growth and stability, departs from
previous Plans by placing special emphasis on income distribution and poverty
alleviation. This focus, which is fully in line with the conclusions of the
Basic Economic Report, in turn requires greater attention to employment
generation and improvements in basic public services. While the Government's
agricultural programs are expected to generate significant employment oppor-
tunities, the long-term solution to Indonesia's employment problem is prima-
rily dependent on the articulation and implementation of a coherent labor-
intensive industrialization strategy. To support this effort the Bank plans
to significantly expand its hitherto modest involvement in this sector. A
comprehensive program of economic work in the industrial sector is being
initiated to provide the necessary understandings and backup for this expanded
operation.
20.       Given the importance of rice production, irrigation will continue to
absorb a substantial portion of Bank Group agricultural lending; however, the
Bank also plans to take further initiatives to promote secondary food crops.
For example, the recently approved Second Agriculture Extension and Second
Agriculture Research, and the proposed Second Seeds projects, will give
greater emphasis to these crops. Continued support for the provision of basic
services (population, education, health, nutrition, urban development and
water supply) as well as the traditional sectors (power and transport) is also
anticipated.
21.       Both the Bank and the Government have become increasingly concerned
about the level of disbursements, which has shown a declining trend in the
past three years. While some of this decline is accounted for by a shift in
several sectors towards "newer" type poverty-oriented projects, many of the
problems appear to be related to the Government's cumbersome budgetary,
procurement and payment procedures, including issuance of tender documents and
opening of letters of credit. These problems are further compounded by the
severe shortages of both managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps



have been taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues.
Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems
and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures.
The Government and the Bank have also instituted formal, annual joint review
procedures r- identify general and project specific problems and work out
corrective measures. The first comprehensive review was held in June 1979 and
the next will be held in September 1980. In addition, a procurement seminar
(planned to be the first of a series) was held in Jakarta in September 1979.
As a consequence of these joint initiatives, over the past few months the
Government announced several measures to streamline the more complex budgetary
and financial procedures affecting project implementation. Finally, to reduce
initial project implementation difficulties, many operataons are now being
presented for Board approval at a later stage in the project cycle. It is
still too early to assess the effect of these steps on project implementation,
but improvements are expected.
22.        From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
With the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and
oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's lending since this
time has been through IBRD loans, although a modest amount of IDA lending has
been justified primarily on poverty grounds since per capita GNP ($360 in
1978) is well below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved
balance of payments position, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.



- 9 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR /1
23.       Objectives.  The Government's major objectives for the agricultural
and rural sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise the
incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with
rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of anallholder
tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land,
water and other natural resources.
24.       Role and Performance.  Nearly 16 million smallholder families
produce subsistence and cash crops on about 16 million ha, while 1,800
estates occupying 2.2 million ha produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil
and tobacco. Despite a 4% average annual growth rate of production, the
agricultural sector's share of GDP has declined from 40% to 31% since 1968,
while its share in total exports dropped from 45% to 37% due mainly to the
markedly increased value of oil exports. Nevertheless, agriculture still
provides 80% of nonoil exports, employs 60-66% of the total labor force
(depending on the season), is the major source of income for about two-thirds
of rural households and one-tenth of urban households, and accounted for 46%
of incremental employment during 1971-76. Outside Java, employment prospects
in agriculture appear quite promising, given the sustained increases in the
smallholder area, including that developed by publicly sponsored and
spontaneous transmigration. On Java continued irrigation rehabilitation is
expected to generate significant employment.
25.       Food Crops.  Given its limited manpower and financial resources,
the Government has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the
preferred staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production
increased rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irrigation
rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fertilizer and
high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the BDMAS credit program.
The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% over 1974-77, in the wake of severe
declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on private sector fertili-
zer trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall, and unprecedented attacks
by pests and diseases. In 1978, rice production increased by 10%, with
better weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and nation-
wide Government distribution of pest resistant varieties.  However, prelimi-
nary estimates for 1979 suggest only a 2% increase over 1978 due to poor dry
/1 Paras 23-29 substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the
National Agricultural Research Project (No. P-2776-IND), circulated under
cover of R80-85 (IDA/R80-60), dated April 17, 1980 and approved by the
Executive Directors on May 6, 1980.



- 10 -
season rainfall. Over the past decade, output of secondary food crops (maize,
cassava, soybeans, peanuts, and sweet potatoes) grew at only a combined annual
rate of 1.6%. These gains in food output did not keep pace with the 3.5%-4.0%
p.a. increase in demand, stimulated by rising incomes. Over the past decade,
Indonesia became the world's largest rice importer, with a rxzord import of
2.3 million tons in 1977, and about 1.3 million tons in 1978, while wheat
imports reached 1.4 million tons in 1978. The Bank report, "Indonesia: Supply
Prospects for Major Food Crops," (No. 2374-IND,dated March 3, 1979) concluded
that even with expanded irrigation, and improved technology, extension, credit
and marketing, food production growth would not exceed 3.5% p.a., leaving a
basic food deficit up to at least 1990, with a rice deficit alone of 2-3
million tons annually.
26.       Perennial Crops.  Perennial crops occupy about a third of total
cropped land (coconuts and rubber account for 80% of this), and generate about
43% of total nonoil export revenue. Smallholders cultivate 80% of the rubber
area and virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper, whereas tea and
oil palm are grown primarily on estates. Past efforts to revitalize the
smallholder tree crop sector were very limited. One new approach, supported
by four Bank-financed Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (NES) Projects (Loans
1499-, 1604-, 1751- and 1835-IND), is for Government-owned estates to plant
and maintain tree crops on previously undeveloped land for three years, using
farmers selected to be settlers as employees, and thereafter to provide the
settlers with inputs, extension services and processing facilities. While the
NES approach has been mainly for new settlers, the Government has also
initiated national programs to assist existing smallholders to replant rubber
or coconuts themselves, with fairly intensive support from Project Management
Units (PMUs). This is the approach of the recently approved Smallholder
Rubber Development Project (Credit 984-IND) and the proposed project. Efforts
to design a lower-cost system of tree crop planting with minimal demands on
management are also starting. Given the vast area of overaged and low
yielding smallholder rubber and coconuts, the good market prospects and
employment potential for these crops, and the Other Islands' land availability
and natural comparative advantage in them, the rapid expansion of smallholder
tree crops, using all suitable approaches, is of high priority.
27.       Area Development.  Rural development programs designed to meet
basic needs and to generate employment and production have been developed
for certain critically poor areas of Java. Cultivable land in Java is
almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds, cultivation already
exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to increasing erosion,
downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and irrigation canals.
The Government is preparing watershed development and integrated development
projects to address this problem.
28.       Transmigration.  The primary program for new area development in
the Other Islands, as well as for creating employment and settlement nuclei
for Javanese migrants, is transmigration. Confronted by management problems,
the Government reorganized the program in preparation for Repelita III, by



- 11 -
transferring implementation responsibility from the Directorate General
of Transmigration to the appropriate technical agencies. This measure needs
to be complemented by continued attention to a variety of technical and policy
issues, some of which the Second Transmigration Project (Loan 1707-IND and
Credit 919-IND) is expected to address.
29.       Bank Group Lending Strategy.  Since the first of 15 irrigation
projects was approved in 1968, the Bank Group has rapidly expanded its
agricultural lending. Within the context of the Goverment's agricultural
objectives and priorities, as outlined in Repelita III, future Bank Group
agricultural lending is expected to focus on: (a) a diversified irrigation,
flood protection, drainage and swamp reclamation program to intensify rice
cropping on Java and to improve water management in the Other Islands;
(b) smallholder tree crop planting programs; and (c) area development and
transmigration. These projects will continue to be complemented by exten-
sive sector work. Analyses of employment and income distribution, irriga-
tion, agricultural support services and food crop production have been
completed. A study of the edible oils market in Indonesia, and reviews of
the rubber subsector, the transmigration program, secondary food crops, land
tenure and supply and demand for technical and managerial manpower for
agriculture, are under way.
The Coconut Subsector
30.       Indonesia's coconut subsector is dominated by some 1.2 million
smallholders,/l who accounted in 1977 for approximately 99% of production
(1.5 million tons, copra equivalent). Traditionally, one of the major world
suppliers, Indonesia accounted until the late 1960s for about 16% of world
copra and coconut oil exports. The exportable surplus, however, has been
steadily eroded by the rapid growth in domestic consumption which has outpaced
growth in production. Since 1977, Indonesia has had to import coconut oil
and/or substitute other oils to meet the rising domestic demand, and this
shortfall is expected to increase rapidly. The shortfall, combined with
stagnant coconut yields, the development of greatly improved planting material
and the availability of fertilizer have made the large-scale upgrading of this
sector highly desirable.
31.       The present system of copra processing and marketing has also
hindered development of the subsector. Copra processing at the farm level is
generally poor, resulting in production of copra with high moisture content.
The absence of uniform standards for assessing copra quality, combined with
the weak marketing position of smallholders, provides little incentive to
improve copra quality. Additional difficulties have arisen with the location
of processing facilities. While the main coconut growing areas are located in
Sulawesi and Maluku, the oil-processing industry has traditionally been
centered in Java. When, in the early seventies a number of new, technically
superior mills were constructed in the Other Islands, resulting in substantial
/1 An average coconut smnallholding in Indonesia is 2 ha.



- 12 -
excess domestic processing capacity, the Government-s copra marketing board
(BAPENGKO) instituted a copra allocation system. By restraining competition
this system has contributed to depressed farm-gate prices and strengthened the
position of the millers. The full impact of these constraints and how they
could be addressed will be the subject of the marketing and processing study
included under the project (para. 56 below).
32.       Government Development Strategy.  Until recently, Government's
assistance to the coconut subsector has been limited. During Pelita I,
Government supported coconut development through free seedling distribution by
the Provincial Estate Crop Services (Dinas Perkebunan Daerah - DPDs). During
Repelita II, 250 Project Management Units or Coconut Working Centers (CWCs)
were established in 21 provinces outside of Java. Java was excluded largely
because of its limited potential for new planting and replanting. Each CWC
covers about 3,000 ha of coconut within a subdistrict and is expected to
assist in rehabilitating, or planting/replanting about 10% of the coconut area
annually. During Pelita I and Repelita II, 575,000 ha (or almost 25% of the
total smallholder coconut area) were planted under such schemes. The
plantings, however, have suffered from seriously inadequate support services.
33.       During Repelita III, Government plans to assist the planting and re-
planting of some 310,000 ha of smallholder coconuts and to rehabilitate 75,000
ha. The experience of the past decade (para. 32), coupled with the move
towards the more sophisticated high input/output package, has led Government
to devise comprehensive institutional support arrangements for the coconut
subsector. The Government has determined that a vertically integrated
national organization providing inputs, including planting material, extension
and other support services is the most appropriate institutional structure.
This is also the practice in other major tree-crop producing countries. Under
the new arrangements, the Government's program will be administered from the
center by a Head Office organization located in the Directorate General of
Estates, by fulltime staff at the provincial level, and implemented in the
field by CWCs. Although the CWC-s are already established and have a core
extension staff, the Government is, in light of limited funds and technical
and managerial manpower constraints, pursuing a phased strengthening beginning
in the areas having the highest potential. This phasing is also consistent
with the projected availability of hybrid planting material from the recently
established hybrid seed gardens. The organizational arrangements that
Government has established for its coconut program and which the proposed
project would support, are consistent with long-run program objectives.
Details of the proposed organizational arrangements are in paras. 38-41.
Bank Group Lending for Coconuts
34.       Bank Group assistance to the coconut industry so far has been
limited to: (a) technical assistance under the Fourth Agricultural Estates
Project (Credit 319-IND) for development of a hybrid seed garden; and (b)
planting of some 4,000 ha of abandoned rubber land with high yielding hybrid
coconuts under the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND)
Credit 319-IND is ahead of schedule and development of the seed garden
completed.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
35.       The project was identified and prepared by the Government with FAQ/
IBRD Cooperative Progam (CP) assistance. The project was appraised in
September 1979 and a Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2939-IND) is being distri-
buted separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington from June 19 to 23, 1980 with the
Indonesian delegation led by General Pang Suparto, Director General of
Estates, Ministry of Agriculture.
Project Objectives.
36.       The proposed project has been designed to help the Government of
Indonesia achieve its coconut development program targets for Repelita III.
It will raise the incomes of 40,000 smallholder families, some 20% of whom
are in the absolute poverty group; increase production of coconuts to meet
rising domestic demand and reduce imports; and help build the institutional
framework for the national smallholder coconut program.
Project Components
37.       The proposed project would be implemented over approximately five
years (July 1980 - December 1985) in the six provinces of North, Central and
South Sulawesi, Lampung, Aceh and Maluku, as part of the Government's
national coconut development program. The main components would be:
(a) Coconut Development. The project would plant, replant, and maintain
until maturity about 37,600 ha (31,900 ha with hybrid material and
5,700 with tall material) of smallholder coconut, including
intercrops; maintain until maturity a further 3,500 ha planted
since 1978; and rehabilitate about 38,000 ha of existing coconuts.
Under the project, three 180 ha hybrid seed gardens will be estab-
lished to provide planting material for future projects. To
spread the benefits widely and ensure that each family can proper-
ly develop its holding, a smallholder family may receive assist-
ance (i) for planting, replanting and developing immature trees
for not more than 2.0 ha or (ii) for rehabilitation, not more than
5.0 ha, or (iii) if the maximum under either (i) or (ii) is not
utilized, a combination in the ratio of 1:2.5 for planting to
rehabilitation, subject to the minimum of 0.5 ha for activities in
(i), (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
(b)  Institutional Development.  Consistent with Government's policy of
phasing development of the CWC's, the project will strengthen 70
existing CWC's in the project areas that are regarded as having the
greatest potential; establish and staff a headquarters unit and the
15 provincial units called for by Government's program (para. 33).
The project will provide training for technical and administrative
staff and, in addition, 168 man-months of technical assistance.



- 14 -
(c) Studies. Three studies will be carried out under the project.
These include (i) a study of the copra marketing and processing
system, including development of coconut byproduct industries and
a review of credit, taxation and cost recovery in the coconut
subsector; (ii) an enumeration of existing coconut holdings; and
(iii) a feasibility study of areas proposed for a follow-up project.
Organization and Management
38.       The project would be implemented under and help strengthen Govern-
ment s proposed institutional structure, described in para. 33.  The DGE
regulates all private estates and smallholdings involving tree crops and
industrial crops, but its institutional capabilities have not been adequate
for the large-scale smallholder development program in Repelita III. A Head
Office (HO) would, therefore, be created within DGE to be responsible for the
planning and implementation of the proposed project and all future small-
holder coconut projects. The HO would be headed by a Manager, who will be
assisted by three deputies who will head the Technical, Finance and
Administration divisions. The HO would be aided by the DGE's Special Team
for Externally Assisted Projects, which would inter alia, assist in
procurement, hiring of consultants and project monitoring.
39.       Since the CWCs are widely dispersed within provinces, provincial
supervision and coordination are essential. The DPDs, because of their wide
responsibilities, are unable to effectively manage the CWCs and Government has
therefore proposed the establishment of 15 separate, full-time provincial
offices (POs) to support the national coconut program. These would be set up
under the project in 15 provinces (six in the project provinces and the others
in N. Sumatra, Riau, Jambi, W. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan, Bali, S.E. Sulawesi,
and E. and W. Nusa Tenggara). The POs would be headed by managers,
responsible directly to the HO. Until establishment of the POs (para. 41),
the head (Inspector) of the DPD would continue with supervisory functions.
Then, under the project, the Inspector would coordinate activities between
the PO and other agencies /1 at the provincial level. The Inspector would
also serve as Secretary of a Provincial Coordinating Committee.
Responsibilities of the POs include: supervision and coordination of the
activities of all the CWCs (not merely the project CWCs); preparation of
annual budgets and reports; channelling and controlling funds; procurement,
storage and distribution of all CWC inputs, including seed nuts; and
arranging for acquiring or alienating land for new planting.
40.       The project will be implemented in the field by the CWCs.  They
would select, together with village officials, farmers for participation in
the project based on the following criteria: (a) they reside permanently
within 5 km of the land to be planted; (b) they are fit and above 18 years
of age; (c) they either own coconut land or work on coconut production or
processing; (d) the coconut trees on the land to be replanted are low-yielding
/1 Local Government, BRI, Agraria, Public Works, DG Foodcrops, BAPENGKO, and
Cooperatives.



- 15 -
(below 0.6 tons/ha); (e) the soil, slope and drainage of the land is
suitable; (f) their family labor is sufficient to develop project plantings;
and (g) they agree to abide by all project rules, to maintain cultivation
standards laid down by the CWCs and to sign Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
subloan agreements. The CWCs will also grow necessary planting materials in
the nurseries and distribute seedlings, fertilizer, agrochemicals and other
inputs. The CWCs will provide the necessary extension and training to the
farmers, who will plant and maintain their own coconut holdings. This is
unlike the Nucleus Estate and Smallholders projects, where the trees are
planted and maintained by the nucleus estate during the first three years.
The CWCs would report to the POs.
41.       Establishment of the HO and appointment of its manager are condi-
tions of effectiveness of the proposed loan. The Bank would be given the
opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience of the nominee for
the post of manager, and his subsequent replacements, if any. The six project
POs would be established not later than December 31, 1980 while the other
nine POs would be established on a phased basis - three each by March 31,
1982, March 31, 1983 and March 31, 1984 (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement). An assurance was obtained at negotiations that Government would
provide the compensation necessary to attract and retain suitable staff
(Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
42.       Technical Assistance.  A coconut agronomist financed under the NES I
project (Loan 1499-IND) has already been appointed as an adviser to the
Directorate General of Estates (DGE); he will be assigned to the project and
his term extended. In addition, five advisors would be recruited interna-
tionally to provide assistance in training, finance, coconut production and
crop protection. The project would provide 168 man-months of technical
assistance at an estimated cost of $1.8 million in current prices. The
average man-month cost (based on March 1980 costs) including salary, costs,
fees, international travel, housing and subsistence is about $7,300. The
total estimated cost also includes local travel and other expenses.
43.       Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI).  Loan accounts of smallholders would
be maintained by the DGE during the first three years of each account. Dur-
ing this time, BRI would serve as a channel and source for project funds.
Then, three years after a farmer entered the project, he would become a
direct BRI client, provided he had contracted no bad debts and had maintained
his coconut planting satisfactorily. Farmers not accepted as BRI clients
would be ineligible for further assistance. Government would bear the full
risk of loan default by these farmers, while BRI would share the risk on
clients it accepted. Except in the province of Maluku, where BRI does not
have a village or mobile network, it is fairly well represented in other
project areas. BRI would establish adequate village or mobile units for all
project areas.
44.       Monitoring and Reporting.  Project monitoring and reporting by HO
would concentrate on the following: (a) project implementation rate; (b)



- 16 -
quality of plantings; (c) economic status of participants before and after
planting; (d) unit costs; (e) actual project costs and disbursements; (f)
credit system; and (g) institutional development. When project plantings
reach maturity, emphasis would shift to coconut/copra yields, marketing and
processing, and subloan repayment.
Project Cost and Financing
45.       Total project cost is estimated at $95.2 million, of which $25.0
million (26%) is foreign exchange. The tax element in the project is insig-
nificant. Physical contingencies of 10% have been added for all items.
Expected price contingencies amount to 38% of total base costs plus physical
contingencies, assuming an annual inflation rate of 15% in 1980 and 1981, and
10% thereafter for local components; and 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982
and 7% thereafter for foreign components. On budgetary and equity grounds,
payment equal to 50% of the going wage in each province, subject to a minimum
of Rp 500/man-day, would be reimbursed to farmers for on-farm development and
rehabilitation. Costs incurred after June 1985 until maturity (June 1990) on
trees planted under the project and not included in total costs would total an
additional $11.0 million (at March 1980 prices); Government would provide for
their financing (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition to
the above costs, the unreimbursed portion of farmer labor contributions would
total $10.2 million (March 1980 prices) during the project period.
46.       The project would be financed by a Bank loan of $46.0 million or
about 50% of total project costs less taxes and the cost of vehicles./l
The proposed loan would cover the total foreign exchange cost ($23.0 million
equivalent) except the foreign exchange component of vehicles, and $23.0
million of local costs. The balance of $49.2 million would be financed by
three government sources: Bank Indonesia (BI), and BRI (in a ratio of 80:20)
for the credit component, and the Export Crops Fund (DTE) in the Ministry of
Finance for the noncredit component. The DTE receives all the revenue from a
recently introduced export tax on palm oil, tea and coffee, which is expected
to be extended to rubber.
47.       Funds for the seed gardens ($1.6 million in 1980 prices, para. 37
(a)), would be onlent by BI to the Government-owned estates (PNP/PTPs)
selected by DGE at an interest rate of 13.5% p.a. over a period of 12 years,
including a grace period of six years. The credit extended to smallholders
would have different terms depending on the type of activity. They range from
a 10-year loan/3-year grace period for rehabilitation to 20-year loan/8-year
grace period for planting of talls. All loans would bear interest at 6% p.a.
with an interest-free grace period. This low interest rate reflects the
/1 Because of the Government's total import ban on vehicles these items are
viewed as subject to reserved procurement and are not financed by the
Bank; their total cost in this project, including contingencies, is $2.5
million.



- 17 -
general Government policy on credit to estate-crop smallholders.
These credit arrangements would be spelled out in (i) a Financing Agreement
between BI, on behalf of the Government and BRI for the smallholder
component; (ii) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between BI, acting on behalf of
the Government and the relevant PNP/PTPs for the seed garden funds; and
(iii) a Subfinancing Agreement between BRI and DGE for the smallholder
component. The signing of such Agreements, acceptable to Bank, would be a
condition of disbursement for the respective credit component (para. 4 of
Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement). The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk. Arrangements for smallholder credit are similar to
those agreed with the Government for the recently approved Smallholder
Rubber Development Project (Cr. 984-IND).
Procurement
48.       Fertilizer (except urea), agrochemicals, polybags, tractors and
trailers ($14.6 million) would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference equal to
15% of the c.i.f. cost or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
49.       Locally advertised competitive bidding following Government's proce-
dures, which are acceptable to the Bank, would be used for: equipment and
supplies costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, subject to an aggregate
ceiling of $1.5 million; and cover crop seed ($0.7 million), in which
Indonesia is competitive, because it is essential that these be available
promptly when needed to prevent weed infestation. Fertilizers (except urea)
and agrochemicals would also be eligible for local procurement up to a
ceiling of $100,000 equivalent annually subject to prudent shopping with at
least three quotations. Sprayers, tools and water pumps ($0.9 million) would
also be procured through prudent shopping after soliciting at least three
price quotations. As noted above, vehicles except tractors, ($2.5 million),
would be locally produced in accordance with Government's policy of
prohibiting vehicle imports; these vehicles would not be eligible for
financing or disbursement.
50.       Urea ($3.0 million) would be procured directly from P.T. PUSRI or
its authorized distributors since it is the sole producer/supplier of urea in
Indonesia and since world market prices for urea are 50% higher than PUSRI's
ex-factory price. Hybrid seednuts would be directly purchased from
Government-owned PNP/PTPs and tall variety seednuts would be purchased from
selected local areas. Total seednut costs under the project would be $6.5
million.
51.       Bidding documents for all contracts estimated to exceed $300,000
would be reviewed by the Bank before issuance. The remaining costs ($67
million) are not suitable for any of the above procedures and consist mainly
of labor, salaries, and other administrative and operational expenses.



- 18 -
Disbursement
52.       Disbursement would be made at the following rates:  (a) for equip-
ment and materials (excluding urea), (i) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly
imported items, (ii) 95% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured items
and (iii) 65% of expenditure on imported but locally procured items; (b) 100%
of expenditure on urea, coconut seednuts, technical assistance and studies,
and also 100% of foreign exchange expenditures on other fertilizers and
chemicals; (c) 85% of expenditure on nursery and on-farm labor; and (d) 75%
of the expenditure on seed garden development. Disbursements for equipment,
polybags, fertilizers, chemicals, technical assistance, and studies would be
made against full documentation. For coconut seednuts, labor and the seed
garden costs, disbursement would be made against statements of expenditure,
with the supporting documentation retained by the H0 and available for
inspection by the Bank. The total cost of items covered by statements of
expenditures, in current prices, is estimated at $31.5 million. Disbursement
will not be made against civil works or HO, PO and CWC expenses (other than
tractors and trailers). The loan would include retroactive financing of
$0.4 million for nursery and on-farm expenditures incurred after July 1,
1979. Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.
Accounts and Audit
53.       Annual project financial statements and the accounts of BRI related
to the project would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; these audited accounts and the audit report would be sent to the Bank
within nine months after the end of each Government financial year (Section
4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
54.       Taxes on copra in the project areas amount to about 7-1/2% of the
farmgate financial price of copra. At present levels of taxation, copra
taxes will recover approximately 49% of on-farm costs while an additional
20% would be recovered through subloan repayments making a total of 69%
(discounting at 10%) of on-farm costs. As "with project incomes" would be
above the critical income /1 level, there may be a case for increasing cost
recovery. The Government will review the system of cost recovery and
consider the feasibility of increasing the level for future projects.  The
proposed study on marketing and processing (para. 56) will also address this
issue.
/1   Critical income is that level at which government assigns a zero net
social cost to marginal income/consumption; in effect, the critical
income level should correspond to the dividing line between those
households whom the government wishes to subsidize and those it wishes
to tax.



- 19 -
Marketing and Processing
55.       The world market price for coconut oil (in constant 1980 prices) is
expected to remain around $910/MT through 1985 and then, to decline slightly
to $884/MT by 1990. In Indonesia, however, where the domestic shortfall in
coconut oil availability is expected to increase, incremental annual
production by the project (approximately 150,000 tons copra equivalent at
peak production during the 1990s) should be readily absorbed at projected
prices.
56.       Although presently problems arise from the copra processing and
marketing system (para. 31), which in effect depresses farm-gate prices,
the anticipated benefits are sufficient to attract potential project parti-
cipants. These difficulties will, in any event, be alleviated with time as
excess capacity is further reduced by increases in production. As a basis
for addressing these issues in the long-run, a study will be financed under
the project, which would examine the overall efficiency of the current
system of marketing and processing at all levels; consider the potential for
greater utilization of coconut by-products; and prepare a development
strategy for the processing industry, including recommendations as to the
location of the milling and refining industry. This study will also review
the system of credit, taxation and the level of cost recovery in the
subsector and make recommendations for increasing the level of cost recovery.
During negotiations, long-run objectives for establishing an efficient
coconut processing and marketing system were discussed and agreed with the
Government team. It was also agreed with the Government that the study
would be completed by September 30, 1981 and that thereafter, appropriate
steps would be taken to implement the recommendations agreed between
Government and the Bank (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). This
would provide adequate time to implement the recommendations before
project-induced production increases materialize.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
57.       The proposed project would increase (from $137 to $312 on average)
the per capita incomes of some 40,000 smallholder families, about 20% of
whom are below the absolute poverty line of $120 per capita (1980 prices).
Increased production under the project would reduce imports; estimated
foreign exchange savings at peak production are $78 million p.a. (constant
1980 prices). The project would also strengthen the organization of the
national smallholder coconut development program. The estimated economic
rate of return for the project would be 19.0%, based on 94% of project costs
for which benefits have been quantified. The investment costs of smallholder
development have been estimated at about $2,100/family (constant 1980 prices).
Incremental farm labor requirements would be equivalent to about 14,800 full-
time jobs p.a. The investment cost of individual job creation is estimated at
about $5,600 (constant 1980 prices).



- 20 -
58.       The two main project risks are inexperienced management and low
subloan repayment by farmers. The project design seeks to minimize these
risks by providing (a) a management structure with more flexibility and
authority than under the regular civil service, (b) competitive salaries, (c)
staff training, and (d) consultancy. With the above arrangements the proposed
project is expected to achieve its objectives.  Poor repayment performance,
while not affecting project economic benefits, would defeat the financial and
educational objectives of using credit for the program. The use of group
marketing organizations as repayment channels would be investigated. Overall,
the project risks are acceptable in view of the benefits which would accrue to
a large number of farmers and to the economy as a whole.
Environmental Effects
59.       New planting of coconuts under the project would utilize neglected
lands, and replanting of old coconut holdings using improved field management
practices would increase land productivity and control soil erosion. The
rehabilitation of existing holdings would lead to improved field conditions,
including drainage improvements where necessary. The use of some chemical
pesticides would be required to control specific serious coconut pests, but
the quantities used would have no significant adverse environmental effects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
61.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The establishment of the Head Office and the appointment of its
manager has been made a condition of effectiveness.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
July 17, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SKEET
INDONESIA                     REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGRTED AyERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KCM.)                                                     - NDsT RcEC_ T Esr__ _T_
TOTAL           2027.1                                 hMST RECENT             LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     292.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb        ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   80.0       140.0     360.0                 197.9                  894.8
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     129.0        120.0     278.0                 166.0                 842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     94.7        117.6     136.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.6         17.1      19.5                  20.8                   39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      204.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        350.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2155
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KS.                       47.0         58.0      67.0                 193.2                 376.1
PER SQ. KH. AGRICULTURAL LAND    337.0        419.0     465.0                 409.6                2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.8         44.0      41.0                  42.0                  40.4
15-64 YRS.                         56.1         53.5      56.0                 55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.1          2.5       3.0                   3.0                   3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL            .                 2.1          2.2       1.8                   2.2                   2.4
TURBAN                              3.8          3.8       3.5                   3.9                   4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     47.0         43.0      37.0                  37.4                  28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     23.0         18.0      17.0                  14.6                   7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8         3.2       2.4                   2.6                   1.9
FAMILY PIANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       181.1    2246.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          0.2      19.0*                 15.6                  39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOPD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          93.0        102.0     107.0                 101.4                 116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                   89.0         92.0     105.0                  92.4                 108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          41.0         41.0      47.0                  49.8                  60.3
OF WHICH ANlIAL AND PULSE        6.0          6.0       6.0                  12.0                  18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      31.0        22.0      20.0                  17.9                   5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.0         46.0      47.0                  50.8                  63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               *       126.0        ..                    ..                  52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          3.0      12.0                  30.2                  42.4
URBAN                               ..         10.0      35.0                  66.0                  62.1
RURAL                                ..         1.0       6.0                  20.0                  29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        12.0      15.0                  17.7                  52.8
URBAN                               ..         50.0      60.0                  71.3                  71.1
RURAL                                ..         4.0       5.0                    ..                  42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         41000.O0c   26830.0   14580.0                6322.7                 4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..       8010.0    2818.0               9459.0                 2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1360.0       1530.0    1578.0                1758.4                 819.4
URBAN                               ..       1090.0        ..                 502.9
RURAL                                ..      1670.0        ..               10524.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..      22.4                    ..                  28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.4          4.8
URBAN                              4.9          5.3
RURAL                              4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROCH
TOTAL                                ..         1.5
URBAN                               ..          1.6
RURAL                               ..          1.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        .                     .
* Estimate for 1979 is 27%.



- 23 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                      REFERENCE QOUPS (WEIGHTED A GWES
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCQ1E
1960 lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIHARY:     TOTAL                 71.0         78.0      86.0                80.9                   98.6
MALE                  86.0        83.0       91.0                94.3                   99.2
FEMALE                58.0        73.0       81.0                66.7                   97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  6.0         16.0      21.0                26.6                   55.5
MALE                  10.0        21.0       25.0                34.8                   60.7
FEMALE                 3-0        11.0       17.0                18.2                   49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)  20.0          22.0      21.0                 9.9                   13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         29.0      30.0                41.1                   34.6
SECONDARY                          14.0         13.0      18.3                20.5                   28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        39.0         57.0      62.0                40.9                   85.8
CONSUMFPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0          2.0       3.6                 1.8                    9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0         21.0      37.0                25.8                  118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1          0.8       2.3                 2.4                   39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..          ..      16.0                13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..       0.9                  ..                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34752.5       41547.3   48610.8
FE4ALE (PERCENT)                   27.9         31.0      29.0                29.4                   36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              74.8         66.3      60.1                70.5                   51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.4          9.7      11.0                11.6                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.7         35.3      34.6                 37.9                   39.1
MALE                                 54.2         49.5      48.6                51.3                   48.5
FHsALE                               20.0         21.6      20.8                23.7                   29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2         1.3        1.2                 1.2                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         33.7/.
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          52.0/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          6.8/d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         17.3L*
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     150.0/e             107.8
RURAL                                ..           ..     107.0/e              86.5                  192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     145.Oe'
RURAL                                ..           ..      98.0/e                ..                  182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      59.0                46.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      65.0                51.7                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
L   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Ls   1962;  /d Income recipients;  /e 1980.
April, 1980



- 24 -                                                             ANNE~XXI
Page 3 of 5 pages
T1ISM (W SOZIA ICICATOOS
motes: Althongh the data are dra-  fro   suroe  generally ,lsuged the meet matheritatee med relishle, it she1A] Aane he meted that tbsp  wq  et be Lateral-
tionally comparble beoeuue of the lack of standardised definitions mad ouoapt. useed by different eraetries is sollmetiag the data. lb. data We, anotheleSs,
useful to deecrihe orders of megoltude, indicate trends, end cbaracterize certain me4er differences betwees coastrias.
Theadustd  roi  aereesfor esb idicator are populatioa-eeightsd geometric maman., saldiudlg the  mtetre value  of the tedicattr sed the meetpee.ad
cosnty  o  achgrup   lceto lack of data, grop aVerge  of all indiatorm  for Capital Surplus Oil Neporters sad of iledctors of Acces  no Nater and beret.
Disposel, Rouing, Iso-m  Dietribution aed Povety for other  oentry groups  -r  psp.ltion-iglhted geetrIo  m-s  itheet socleelen of the  -tra  nece and
the  Ios popu~Ltoed. cutry.   ic  th   oeesofe-ara p1   thceI indAcatole !-d,wd     aal                     ity of data ad is act -if-s.  naetion met he asrimd
in relotleg overseesof ene indicator tomacthee.  Thsee aesr ase e  strwfal -agraatea      "fsPecteW" vel".s  pa  eei-AS the vsesof -m
indloator at a thee onS the ontry aNd refereoe greepe.
LANl AREA (th-uaad eq.ks.)                                                              Alless to  Art   ieos  preto   ealto)-ttl  re.a    .. 
otal - Tote  suefacaea          ising lend area ad Intend water.-mtso   epe(oa,e'm,ades]ee   yart   ip lm
Agricuat-ra  -  Mcst recent estlote of agioultora  area need tenra-lly                   p-sentegee of their reapetire polsitione. neAeta. diepseal w  imecnds
or p.esmnetly for crps, Paeture, narket end kitchen gardens or to                     the oo11ettole ad diepoeal, .ith or siticct traslat,w of Iaum erret*
it  fallow                                                                            and cate-wter by eater-born  saten  or the aee of pit prifle   ad sailsW
lastellaticas.
0glcnCAPFe(US94) - iNP per caPit. estimatee at c-rret market pric.,..                    ftfl.ti.onrSaioMl.lIme - ftp.ltio  dledde  by oute  of practiciag piVaicSeae
Eii TIIWiiiecavrlo   eto ---b        World leak Atlas (1976-78 baeie(;              q-liain    rdfk     .eddi-l elobl at aleorety level.
lpO    197, ad1978 data.                                                           Pocesatic  see Mor.min  Ferno  - Pyelatien divided by  ISer of praticing NaLe
aiYo C:,SUMPTION PEo CAPITA - Annua  -oouptioa of  -ee lhe. neg                            en  fe.Nel  grahIeate mees*practical osrees, ad aeletant  55
(coa  andlignte,petrleu,Ictural gao ed hsydro-, nulear and ge-pcsain                               aitlfe    oa.eb.  ad rural - Pewation (total, arbse,
thermall vIet1ricyP) 10 kilogrse  of coal equivelet per capita; l='                      and rural) div,ided by their rsetv~           r of hoepitel beds aailable In
ig7o, -d 1976 dt.                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~puil  and private, geceral and epecialid hoetpital and rehebilitation cetaer.
1970, and 1976 dato.                                              ~~~~~~~Hospitals are eetblehellaste peretly stffd by at iseat one  skicla.
POPULATION 051D VITAL STATISTICS                                                           getabliabeeats p-ovdieg principally oetodial owre we mt incicded. Rural
Tota  PspG   yc    dVer(llo              AS of holy 1; 1960, 1970, ad                   hospitals, hoevr,  wlaud  health  Ad medical catere not permemently staffed
1977 data,                                                                            by a . gl ien(bs by a medlcal aesisteat, aerm, midwife, etc.) which offer
Urba   oulto   (preto         Roa) htlo of -bio  to total popuItioe;                     ia-patient ao-datioe ad provide a limited rage of meicl fenilitia..
diffrert definliton   of urho  aeoo may offoot comparability of data               Autis.ioe"JP,         5itd - Tt1otal   er of adeeicos t. or discharges fec
among co-trsee;i1*0, 19701, and 1975 data.                                                        dividedb  the Mseter of beds.
Proulatin in eeo  2000 - Curet populatioc  proJeotoas ore. baled on               HWI5XnO
195toa  ppltion b  age and  .es and their mertality end fertility         A-rege Sloe of Hoshld (seem   5   osol)-ttl-rs  and rura  -
rote-  iroJectio Parmeer  for mortality rates compIse of thrn                       A ioeoohold coit  ofagru  ofiniedl  wh   haeiiv    quarters end
erolaeec   life co-et-n   at biruhi-oreaiog with .-utry,.                          their  ni. meals. A boerder or lodger NW or ney 00t be ioolded inth
Percpt  Locos  leveI, and femalle life  opectasoy etbilialeg at                     household for etatlatioa  perpuses.
77.5ecro   The pa,lneters for fertility rate ala  hove three level                Averaes  outer of Pereone perro   total. ri   a.d  -rura  - Average sober
oveuciog decine in fertility socordiog to i-n level1and past                        ofPer..a. Per -uo  in all when, ad rura  occpied c-veti-ne  deeliogo,
family donning perforane, tech  -utry Lc thea assigned one of these                 respectively.  Wcellings eaclde oo-persnst strutures ad unoccpied prto.
cite  -si-ati-a  of mortolity and fertility treads for projeotion                 Acoem  to Rotriolt  (ceroat of deeliga) - gtotal, urban, and rural -  Can
prpoe.-etloon). deLies  ith. elcricity inlivigq tr  as peretege of
Stotiocopypocolation - ln n stotion-y ppulatioo there is oo grow-th                   total,  rha, and rura  deftioga repeoti-ely.
si-cc the birth rate id eqoal to the deoth rote, cod also the sgee
etrctur reut   octent ,isl  is aclced soy after fertility ratee                iDteAT1ON
declive to thie vpl_e_et level of _it net reproduotioc rate' *hn                    dusted tkE-1la-t Ratioe
ccci geovrntioof co-   replao-   utovif e-aoly.  The stationary pop.,-              Pieysho    oa    oeadfml  -letotal', sal  ad femae  nrll
iatiooioeootro         -dc  tichaul o.i f the projected oharatrioti-acto   l  csa  h   rmr   ee  ao- pecetages of respective prisry
of tic P puatio  intho year 2000, and tie cab  of declIne of fertility                cohbol-ege popultloo; oormally leolodee children sged 6-li yrar  hut
rate to repiceveot le-v                                                               adjusted for diff erect leogths of primar  eduatic; icr coutries cith
Yea stationary 7poPuatio 1. reahed - The yevar hoo stationry ppulation                  ocra  education enro1lert say nosed 100 perceot sin-  som  pupils
sloe h. ibec reached,                                                                 are heloc  r shov  the1 official achool ae
lsooulatlco leoity                                                                      ScnryaIso  _ total sale cod fneale   Computed as oboe;ncoar
Per co. Ic. - Mid-yeac ppolatioo per oquar  kilometer (100 hectares) of                 eduatio rcquireoat least four Year  of aPProvd pri-cy ln-trutioo
total  rv                                                                             proides georral  -otional, or teacher traling isotrusti-a  for popila
Per sq. km  agicultural land - Coeputel as ahc  for agricultural land                   usually of 12 to 17 years of ago; correp-de-ecueoar   oeal
cole.                                                                                 exlded.
Psoulatic  AeStucue  cesot   Childr-  (0-14 year), woking-age                           Voatiooal curo11-t (Percen.t of secooday) - VocotioacS  ioltituti-o  include
(15-6bYr)I odretire 6  Vea-  andoe)a  percetages of aid-year                            techi-al, loduotrial, or other progrso, ehich operate iodepeadeotly or a
popolatioc; 1*60, 19170, and 1977 data,                                                  departments of oecodaryInttlos
Population Groti Rote (oc-et) - total.  Annoal or-ti roles of total edd-                Pupil-teacher, rati;o- primary  and secondaery - Total stdnat  enrlle  In
rear poslatloon for 1950-h,170 i-7, and 1971-77.                                        prmr  adscodr          .lvl  divided bynu  eo f teashera ho the corro-
Ppopslatioc Groth Rnto04gvo-nt  - orbn-  Annua growth estee of urha                       spoding levelo.
p.polatio.o fur 1950-  , 19b0-70, and 1970.75.                                        AdultlIteayrt        -pret) - Literate  dulto  (able to read  nd orite) a
Crd    iSOto   o Pr thouand) - nullc    itsprtosn   fod-                              apretge oftotal adult populotion agod 15 years  and00cr.
year poplation;190, 190,ad 1977 dat..
Crude Eenth iste      thoan        A-1Ana deaths Per thousad of' ni-year            coNsmpiAP 11
Grs Rpoducton llte -Avrg    uiro   agtracowl   ersaigls   hneght ~Peen; elde  enibl-ce, hearses and mIlitary
in hoc .s-Io reproduets    period if she eprecspreseo.t age                           vehicle".
seific fertility rave,; usualy fiv-yea  uv-rgcu oodig In 1*6,                     Radio  "eevr  (pe thoned -pocostios) -All tyyeo of r-ci-er  fur radio
1970, nod 1975.                                                                       hruoats toenral public Per th-osad of popastioc; e..oe  untlicensed
Penile Planning   Asceotors  nuAl (thousands) - Onsul nunier of                         reciver  is coutries and in year a hea regiutratiss  f rdI sts  ooi
accptor. of birti-cnrol deie   ne upice  of ontion..l family                          effoct; data for recent year  say not he cop-rble  10r- e-n  coutries
plning pr-gen                                                                      a.iholhd licensig.
F anly Plansing  ~. ero (p-eret of earne,d ocao  - Percen.tage of maried              TV Receivers (per th""'sad onpolotios) - TY rocelvrs for hrnadoauc to generl
onn  f  inld-hearing age (15-hi Yenn  ohs us - irth-cctro  devices                public Pee th-ousand  pultion; euldec unieod TV receiver  in coutries
to al  mried   ooin none age group.                                                   and in years she. registratIon of TV setO  La.I effect.
Nensa),r Circaion (per C    tthsusad:  orltioa) - Shoe, the  vrg   ielto
________________                                                     f  daily geerl intera   eeoe   defe    spr  dclpbicaio
Ondec  f 000  ProdctIonper Cspita (1969-71-100) - ideo of Per -0pita              deroted privoily to recording generael ore.   t Is =oed-rd to hr  daily'
annual production o   al  oo   diti-c  Prodution e-cdous  sed and                if it appeare at leant fou  times. nuei.
fedo   io oncleiryca  bnsis.  Co-odities cover primary good                     Cinem  Annual1 Atteodane pe Capita ne  Year - Raned 00 the outer of tickets
e1.g. -olgacae ivctcnd of -nga) which are edible and vootai. -trhib                  sold -daring tic yea, io.cldiag adeloion  to drivc.io cliema  and acbile
ci.g  ooffeo nod tca wr e-1lded).  Aggregate production of eah conty                 units..
is in-ed on satioal overage prodocertpesce senghts.t
Pee -spit sup    -o oieu' (percn  of rcinet)-Cdeputed fron                        IAmBD  FORCE
vovo   vqielet.r ne   -odnpplie, acilaile is cooctry Per capita             -Tota Ltr foc  (thousands) -  e-soicalIly notic  er ..r.on, including armd
Pee doy.  Ov-i1.lnleopp1ii -cvoprioc domeotic productio, inport .less               forcs adFnompluyd hut e-clding housei-e, utudets, etc- Definitio-s
coports, and  iangsioctcck.  Nct -oPpliel e-olde animal feed,  leeds,               so  -nic-  ooatrieo are sot -omq-ble.
quatiti-evuced in, food pr-ooing, and lose    dinthribotio. Require-              feae e              F) - 1Pal  Iar force as percetage of total lobor fumte.
ace to ocre votisated by COO hood  vs phys "iogcl needs  o  ova        lgr7645jr5,Jfc9tr)    - LbOo  forc  in foriag, f-rvtry, hunting and
antloi:sy an  Goalsthoo..si*-ing cocir oseotni te-perator-, body seighbs,           fiobiag as percetage of total labor fsrce.
age adsc    oributino-S peuGt '0ad olosngh percent for                            Ind..try (perc-t) - Lbie  o c-osan,  osrcion,   -sfaturiag and
-ate at Goosiod leo"I.                                                              vlectrici ty, .cater and gsa  pecotgeo  total labor force.
Per onpit suppl of Peoei. lumens per doe) - P-rotio cooest of pe                     aniiai    ae(pret -ttl,aeed femalie - Partilipstion or
capit  n et suply of food per doe. cues supply of food is deilo-d noacivty rates areomputed no total:                         aei  adfmLe  sn oc   opr
oboe. Reoo irenstn f or all c-ateieo establinhed by PUtD provide for a               -etage  of total, nae and fremle population of all aerspectively;
mOinsn alion-o  of 60 g,ranof total protein per dsp and 20 grees of                   G 1960 970, and 1975 dstn.  Theev ar  pis- participatioo ratcrflrctlo
annulS ad poise  rotein,  f ooh  10go aol eaia   rti.                        ae-se  ot-otare of the population, and long time trend.  Afeer: etimates
Teoc sadoeds ace horta  hoeo  5goo  total protein and                              ace fros oational snco
25 gra  of aninul p-rotio soanavrge fcc the osLd, proposed he fA                   cooi Re :oouy Ratio -_hstio o5f populatio- under 15 end 65 and ser to
So tic TI rd World rod -    o.h  laborYforc  io age grouP of1-64 year..
Percpt  prtinspply fron a _an and pulse -_Protein soppy of food
derived free aciou   anrussi   en   e   a.NtOs DISRTIETIIW
Ch11d 'age  1-u) te talit   Rate(pe,t.rthuad    dy Aos deathl per tbhusan              Percetage of Private I-ce  (both is sash and kind) - Roceied bY riohest
arge grou  1- per, ooild-e  is this ago group; for sot leve-                         5 pe  ect, richest 20 percen t, posrot 20 percent, aMeoet1   eoa
opioc  -utrie- dots derivco froc life sables.o  houseild..
H0AITH                                                                                FUORVil TARGET GROUP
Life toEv-tny st Rvl'er)" vrg uber of years of life                                   Estialted AboluIte hertyc-incoe Leel i(oil Per capita)           b oio  and rsural-
reaingas birth;10,ii,ad1 977. dats.                                                   Ahbclte povety loselee  I-ta   auelee   ee uha   nil
lofust tc Italty Rate (per thousand)  A- Io   deaths of infanta andr one                nutritiona lly adequate diet plu  e...e.tial son-fund requireeo.sioc
year of age pee tho--ad lice birtho.                                                    ffordable.
Ooeot  aeWter (pret of 1eultics-otl  ora,ad mura  -                           tohae    eatv   ret loelvl(il   ecota  -urban edrua-
rene   f Peope(oa,ubngedmrlvt   esnal   cest                                        ua  reltie pvety  cmelevel Fis  n-thirdofargeprcit
oaf e-t-r supply  'icuec treated -surfae  aters or untreatedht                        personal Ino    of the  -oantry. Urban leve  in derived fry the rural leve
useostenioted ontor  ociass tbt from protected  oreboe, springs,                 it  eduemet for higher cot of  1ig io urban ocan
anjasoyslls   aprves-  o.f their respective popelatios. On                   tistlate   Poultic  Ie-o AhbltePvet   Loom              ..ee  I rti -  ranad
an ocantnro n public foutain yesdnpoet lucoted not acre tha                          rua      ocoto   ouois    ra   n  rr                h     re ohe tub  por..
20mters tfro- a house ts  hr voos.idered oa being sithls re-osable
acesod  hat ho...oc   . 10 Imural no ens .reasonble acces  could isply
that  he-tseifo- orabero of the,household do oct have to spend o                                                             -esnmi  sod Social Dta Dielise.
dtisproetoteprtI       ofthe  cy io ftching the fanlly' eater ... d.                                                   Oc-sodi Analysis and ProJeti... Repartmest
August 1979



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 /a                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln    %          1960-65           1965-70           1971-78
GNP at Market Prices            47,461  100.0          1.9                4.9               7.8
Gross Domestic Investment    10,022   21.1             3.3               11.5              14.7
Gross National Saving            9,233   19.5          5.8                5.1              12.0
Current Account Balance         -1,155   -2.4
Exports of Goods, NFS           10,278   21.7          1.5                7.8               8.9
Imports of Goods, NFS            9,144   19.3          0.2               10.9              17.9
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added       Labor Force /b    V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln    %          Mln      %            US$      %
Agriculture                     11,624   31.1       35.3    62.6           329    49.7
Industry                        12,672   33.9        4.7      8.3        2,696   407.3
Services                        13,043   35.0       13.4    23.8           973   147.0
Unallocated                          -    -          3.0      5.3
Total/Average               37,339  100.0       56.4   100.0            662   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(Rp Billion)                              % of GDP
1977/78   1978/79                          1977    1978
Current Receipts                  3,535      4,266                         18.9    19.6
Current Expenditure               2.149      2,744                         11.5    12.6
Current Surplus                   1,386      1,522                          7.4      7.0
Capital Expenditures              2,157      2,556                         11.5    11.7
External Assistance (net)           738        987                          3.9      4.5
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977   1978
(Million Rp outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                    695      987   1,452   1,978   2,631   3,131  3,809
Bank Credit to Public Sector             129      153     209      990   1,051       883  1,442
Bank Credit to Private Sector            524      932   1,186   1,376   1,737   2,017  2,605
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP   15.2    14.6    13.5    15.6    17.0    16.7   17.5
General Price Index (1971 = 100)         106      139     196      234      280      311    336
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      6.4    31.1    41.0    19.4    19.7    11.0    8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector          -14.0    18.6    36.6   373.7         6.2   -16.0   63.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector           65.3    77.9    27.2    16.0    26.2    16.1   29.2
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
/a Exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$l up to November 14, 1978, Rp 625 = US$1, thereafter.
/b Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
Not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
June 30, 1980



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYIENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                        1976    1977    1978         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976-78)          US$ Mln        %
1.  Exports:                             6,573   7,952   7,989
(a)  Oil and LNG (net)            3,710   4,445   4,010         Oil and LNG (net)              4,055      54.1
(b)  Nonoil                       2,863   3,507   3,979         Timber                           986      13.1
2.  Imports (incl. net NFS)            -6,657  -7,777  -8,129          Rubber                           653       8.7
(a)  Imports                     -6,167  -7,241  -7,543         Coffee                           488       6.5
(b)  NFS (net)                     -490    -536       586       Palm Oil                         190       2.5
3.  Resource balance                       -84      175    -140        Tin                              253       3.4
4.  Factor services                       -718    -865  -1,015         Manufactures                     261       3.5
(a)  Interest public debt la    -314    -436    -499            All others                       619       8.2
(b)  Other (net)                   -404    -429    -516
5.  Balance on current account            -802    -690  -1,155              Total                     7.505    100.0
6.  Direct foreign investment              287      285      271
7.  Capital grants                         100      100      100
8.  Public M & LT loan /a                                              EXTERNAL DEBT - December 31, 1979
(a)  Disbursement                 2,334   1,955   1,627                                          Disbursed  Undisbursed  Total
(b)  Amortization                  -457    -825    -969uS                                                                -------o
(c)  Net disbursements            1,897   1,130       658
9.  Other capital (net)                   -481    -174       834       Total External Public Debt         13,086       5,811     18,897
10.  Change in reserves
(- increase)                    -1,001    -651    -708
11.  Net official reserves                1,557   2,208   2,916         DEBT SERVICE RATIO                         1977    1978    1979
Reserves in months of imports + NFS         2.8      3.4      4.3       Public debt service as % of exports    15.9    18.4           15.3
RATE OF EXCHAUGE                                                        IBRD/IDA LENDING (April 30. 1980) (US$ million)
IBRD        IDA
August 1971 through November 14, 1978
Outstanding & Disbursed                         844.94    528.64
US$1.00  =  Rp 415                                                 Undisbursed                                   1,846.06    372.08
Rp 1,000 =  US$2.41                                                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                 2,691.00    900.70
Since November 15, 1978
US$1.00 = Rp 625
Rp 1,000 = US$1.60
/a Based on IBRD external debt data.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
June 30, 1980



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 25 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1980)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Two Loans and twenty-four Credits fully disbursed          98.00  321.60         -
259     1971   Tea                                                 15.00        0.40
300     1972   Population                                          13.20        1.93
319     1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                         11.00        1.85
355     1973   Beef Cattle Development                              3.60        0.02
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development                5.00        0.80
387     1973   Third Education                                     13.50        4.25
399     1973   West Java Thermal Power                             46.00        3.04
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.80        5.38
405     1973   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                       50.00        0.41
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                       16.50        9.20
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                          5.00        1.35
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                        16.00        7.64
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                     6.50        1.41
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.00       18.97
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project                40.00       17.12
827     1978   Rural Credit                                        30.00       29.28
869     1979   Polytechnic                                         49.00       48.42
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                          10.00        9.97
919     1979   Transmigration II                                   67.00      67.00
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                        12.00       12.00
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Development
Project                                            45.00      45.00
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                                45.00      45.00
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                   42.00      42.00
1040     1975   Jakarta Urban Development                  25.00                 1.71
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                   14.50                 3.67
1089     1975   Second Fertilizer Expansion               115.00                 0.08
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00                38.65
1127     1975   Fourth Power                               41.00                 1.85
1139     1976   Fertilizer Distribution                    68.00                 0.02
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & axtension          21.50                14.53
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.00                 7.16
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00                34.98



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 25 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year                Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1237    1976   Fourth Education                            37.00                25.03
1250    1976   Second Shipping                             54.00                35.67
1254    1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion                  70.00                 7.08
1259    1976   Fifth Power                                 90.00                39.47
1267    1976   National Food Crops Extension               22.00                10.53
1268    1976   Seventh Irrigation                          33.00                17.01
1318    1977   Transmigration and Rural Develpment    30.00                     17.71
1336    1977   Second Urban Development                    52.50                13.01
1337    1977   Tanjung Priok Port                          32.00                19.03
1363    1977   Second Private Development Finance
Co. of Indonesia (PDFCI-II)              15.00                 5.80
1365    1977   Sixth Power                                116.00                56.07
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                       13.00                11.65
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education            19.00                16.00
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                           63.00                55.52
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                            35.00                26.31
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                      8.24
1472    1977   Second Population                           24.50                21.08
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                        15.00                12.26
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I          65.00                53.06
1513    1978   Seventh Power                              109.00               101.47
S009    1978   Bukit Asam Coal Mining and
Transport Engineering                    10.00                 2.21
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                           140.00               133.42
1579    1988   Eleventh Irrigation                         31.00                27.25
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                     64.65
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                          77.00                73.91
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                     54.00                54.00
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control           50.00                49.74
(Thirteenth Irrigation)
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training                42.00                41.50
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                              130.00               128.49
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                              50.00                50.00
1707    1979   Transmigration II                           90.00                90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                               175.00               175.00
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                         36.00                36.00
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders III                         99.00                98.88
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                      116.00               116.00



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 25 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                      Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total                                         2,691.00  900.70   2,218.14
of which has been repaid                      42.69    0.45
Total now outstanding                         2,648.31  900.25
Amount sold                           28.24               0.00
of which has been repaid           -17.57      10.67
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             2,637.64  900.70
Total undisbursed                             1,846.06  372.08   2,218.14
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 24 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business                  (US$ million) ---
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hbtel    Tourism                11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             0.3         -        0.3
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.4       0.1        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
Total gross commitments                              51.7      10.5       62.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                  34.1       2.1       36.2
Total held by IFC                                    17.6       8.4       26.0
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)           -         -          -



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 25 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                                6-8
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811 and 995)
Other Agriculture Production (259, 319, 355, 358, 400, 405, 480,              8-12
1318, 1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835 and 984)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)                 12-13
Rural Development (946)                                                       13
Agro-Business and Credit (785 and 827)                                           13
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486 and 1692)                                14-16
Energy (399, 1127, 1259, 1365, 1513, 1708 and 1872)                            16-17
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (1089 and 1254)                                         18
Industrial Estates (428)                                                      18
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                           18
Coal Mining (S-9)                                                             19
Population and Nutrition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                              19-20
Nutrition (1373)                                                              20
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                        21
Transportation
Highways (1236 and 1696)                                                     21-22
Marine Transport (1250)                                                       22
Ports (1337)                                                                  23
Tourism (479)                                                                   23
Urban Development (1040, 1336 and 1653)                                        23-24
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                   24-25
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANiNEX II
Page 6 of 25 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
delay project completion by four years. Consequently, the current closing
date of December 31, 1980, is expected to be extended. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is currently expected
to be completed by December 1983. The total project cost is currently estima-
ted to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by Mfarch 1984,
about three years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to
a delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of another year due to delayed land acquisition, delayed payments
to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation. Because of
double digit inflation and the Rupiah devaluation the total project cost is
currently estimated at $227 million, which is $24 million more than the last
mission estimate and about 38% above the appraisal estimate. Disbursements
are currently about 50% of the appraisal estimate, but are expected to
significantly increase in FY80/81. All major contracts have been awarded and
sufficient funds are allocated for the programmed construction this year.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Construction is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary develop-
ment areas, and studies being funded under the project are expected to be
completed shortly. The mapping progam is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily, although disburse-
ments are currently about 80% behind the appraisal estimate largely due to



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 25 pages
delays in the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung drainage components, and
partly due to late payment to contractors. Disbursements are expected to
improve in succeeding semesters because of increased activity in these
components.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7. 1977; Closing Date: December 31. 1981.
Initial delays cannot be expected to be made up during construction
and the final completion date is estimated to be March 1983, a delay of 21
months. Further delays would occur if right-of-way lands are not initiated
in advance of the construction program. Works are proposed to be executed
under small to medium contracts using manual labor instead of equipment.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16. 1978: Closing Date:
December 31. 1984.
Delay in implementation of the project components is about 12
months. Some delays have occurred in awarding contracts and the construction
program will have to be accelerated to achieve the completion target. Pro-
gress of studies of dams and irrigation subprojects is behind schedule due
to the late awarding of contracts for aerial mapping for the Kali Progo, Way
Seputih and Way Sekampung areas. Progress on studies at Dumoga and Gumbasa
has been satisfactory. The staff of the PIBD, the Executive Body for Major
Irrigation Projects with World Bank Assistance, will have to be strengthened
in order to cope with the increased construction program from FY80/81 onwards.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31. 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date:  May 10. 1979; Closing Date:  March 31, 1984.
A smooth start to project implementation is being made. Contracts
for consulting services were awarded before or only slightly beyond the dead-
line except for those for the Jatiluhur Tertiary Development component, which
is slightly behind schedule. Completion of the Cisedane Drainage Component
will be about six months late due to the delay in completing tender documents
and in acquiring rights-of-way for the first civil works contract. The
initial delays in Jatiluhur are expected to be made up during construction and
final completion may still be as projected during appraisal. Similar delays
in Cisedane are unlikely to be recovered and a six-month delay in final
completion is anticipated. The total project cost is expected to be within
the original estimate.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 25 pages
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
This loan became effective last October and the initial progress is
satisfactory. Consultants have been engaged for the construction supervision
and studies provided under the project. The construction of river training
works and flood protection levees under six on-going contracts is progressing
well and on schedule. Two major works, the construction of the Rambatan
Channel and Bangkir control structure are scheduled for bid opening in June
1980. The major difficulty foreseen at this stage is the land acquisition for
the rights-of-way. The implementing agency is aware of this problem and is
trying to resolve it. Disbursements are presently below appraisal estimates.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
This loan has just been declared effective.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
This credit has just been declared effective.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: $15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1980.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs increased project costs by about 17% above appraisal estimate, but the
economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over 20%. The closing
date has been extended to August 31, 1980, in order to make payment for goods
ordered but not delivered by the previous closing date.
Credit No. 319  Fourth Agricultural Estates:  $11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The planting program under the project has been completed and the
construction of processing facilities should be completed by the middle of
1981. Production, profitability and costs of PNP X continue to be satisfac-
tory although oil palm output is down as a result of processing problems at
Bekri Mill. PNP X has expanded its operations further under Loan 1499-IND



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 25 pages
(NES I), and its work on planting rubber for smallholders under NES I and
under Loan 1318-IND (Transmigration I) is progressing well. Nevertheless,
there are some temporary difficulties, but overall project performance remains
very satisfactory.
Credit No. 355  Beef Cattle Development:  $3.6 Million Credit of
January 31. 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The PT Bina Mulya Ternak Corporation (PTBMT) is now managed by
Indonesian staff with satisfactory technical capability. Development of ranch
infrastructure and fencing has been completed, but pastures on both Sulawesi
ranches remain understocked. Fertility levels of cattle are low and as yet no
satisfactory solution has been found to improve the situation. A three-year
pasture and grazing research program with Australian bilateral assistance
started in early 1979 and it is expected that, inter alia, the cause for low
fertility may also be determined in 1980 or 1981. Purchases of domestic stock
in 1979 enabled PTBMT to partially utilize its surplus grazing capacity and
improve its finances. The budget for 1980 has been approved and sufficient
funds are available to meet investment and operating expenditures in 1980 and
up to project completion, about mid-1980. The recording system in PTBMT is
satisfactory; there are no specific disbursement problems.
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the objective has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. Production will not be adversely affected since
replanting yields are higher. Costs are now estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by about 60% since replanting is more expensive and costs have
risen sharply because of inflation. Disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates for the same reasons. The project has made a significant impact
on the private sector of the Indonesian tea industry. The project training
program is especially noteworthy having now involved more than 9,000
smallholders through practical village training schemes.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 25 pages
Credit No. '05  Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date:  April 22. 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Factory rehabilitation (PTP XV and XXI/XXII) completed, but
performance still below appraisal forecast. PTP XXI/XXII is taking vigorous
steps to improve performance and re-orient field staff to the Government
decision that all sugarcane be grown by farmers, none on land rented by
factories - a traumatic and dislocating change. PTP XV is finding it more
difficult to adapt. The three modern project factories at Pesantren,
Gempolkrep and Sragi have minor problems on completion of the 1979 season.
Cane areas have expanded about as forecast, but average yields are much
lower due to switch to farmers' cane and PTP lack of experience in farm
extension work (being remedied). PTP XXI/XXII made a substantial profit in
1979 ($11.3 M); PTP XV made a substantial loss ($3.6 M), though its lowest
loss in five years. Capital reconstruction for PTP XV is being actively
considered. Uneven supply and poor quality of cane, through improving,
still inhibit results. Cost reduction is being achieved, but desirable
factory amalgamation is resisted because it would reduce employment. The
Indonesian Sugar Experiment Station (Pasuruan) has been reorganized to meet
the need for more intensive research on new varieties, especially rainfed
and ratooning, and on intercropping and upland soil fertility; required
additional funds are included in the National Agricultural Research Project.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14. 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by the Government's skipjack tuna
enterprise and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have
been ordered. The quality of fishpond lending by Bank Rakyat Indonesia
suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; results are patchy and
arrears excessive in some areas. Coverage is much less than appraisal fore-
cast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but infla-
tion and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall project performance has been slower than expected. An
additional 400 families have been settled at Baturaja, bringing the total
to 2,200 compared to a target of 3,100. About 1,800 ha is being cropped
at Baturaja. Project management has been strengthened by recruitment of
some new staff. Infrastructure work at villages 4 to 8 is slow due to



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 25 pages
shortage of of funds and for the same reason no new contracts have been
signed. No progress has been recorded on the seed farm which is still 70-
130 ha short of target and pastures have still not been satisfactorily
developed. Detailed plans for villages 9, 10 and 11 are now being prepared
by the implementing agency.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1. 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been some delays in the implementation of the project
owing to the necessity to resurvey and map a significant portion of the
project areas. However, rapid progress has recently been achieved and it
should be possible to maintain the original implementation schedule. Bids
for land clearing and construction of roads have been evaluated and the con-
tract is expected to be awarded shortly.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18. 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
The project's overall physical progress has been generally good
but unequal. While in some areas the planting program substantially exceeded
the target, in others it remained behind schedule, but recently, energetic
measures have been taken to make up for the delays. Housing, roads and
village development is behind schedule but preparations are under way which
should accelerate implementation in the forthcoming months.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is behind. The appointment of new project manager and
support staff from local authorities have helped speed up implementation.
The management of PTP IV, the local authorities and the Directorate General
of Estates have agreed to the Bank's recommendation that preparations for
the construction of settlers' houses should start immediately and that the
upgrading and staffing of the Sungai Tiga Extension and training Center in
Jambi should be implemented.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31. 1986
The project is off to a good start. Reasonable progress has been
achieved in the estate development components, and preparations being made
to start implementation of the smallholder components this year should
result in the planting of about 5,000 ha of smallholder rubber and the
settlement of the first 600 participating settlers by March 1981.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 25 pages
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders IV:  $99 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980:  Effective Date:  Not Ct Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan has not yet been declared effective.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
This credit has just been declared effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall progress continues. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD) civil works in Pangragajian have been
completed, in Margahayu are ahead of schedule, in Baruajak (all highland
vegetables) have been completed (slightly behind schedule), while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I rice and paliwija
crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of labor and difficulties in
procurement. Tenders for Sukamandi Phase II have been issued and contracts
have been awarded for field and workshop equipment, furniture and vehicles.
Tenders for laboratory equipment and chemicals for Margahayu are expected to
be issued shortly. In addition to 60 long-term fellowships abroad, 247 long-
term domestic fellowships have been arranged. Under the Agency for Agricul-
tural Education, Training and Extension (AAETE) most of the equipment,
furniture and vehicles have been received and distributed to ten completed
agricultural information centers (AICs). Extension materials are being
produced and distributed from the AICs. Disbursements under the project are
improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created.
Appointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project
directorate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional
Assisant Directors. Civil works have been resumed and the training program
has started. Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing
difficulties and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with support-
ing documentation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for pre-
financing outlined by the Finance Ministry last year is expected to help
solve the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 25 pages
Credit No. 996  Second National Agricultural Extension:  $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1989; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The credit has just been declared effective.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040)  Million Credit of May 16, 1980;  Effective Date:  Not Yet
Effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
This Loan and Credit have not yet been declared effective.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
This credit became effective in December 1979 and the start of
implementation has been smooth. A Project Coordinating Unit has been
established and staffed within BAPPEDA (the provincial development planning
agency) and the working papers have been translated into Bahasa Indonesia
for distribution to the participating agencies. A Project Steering Committee
has also been set up by the Governor of Yogyakarta.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, which provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP, became
effective August 17, 1978. Despite start-up difficulties, BI has now
established and staffed all project management units. The three field units
in Central Java, East Java, and West Sumatra are developing new lending
approaches and assisting handling banks in project promotion and preparation.
The training and studies components of the project are progressing satis-
factorily.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 25 pages
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. Due
primarily tc delays in obtaining project consultancy, the project is about
nine months behind schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Delivery of books takes
about one month to a year depending on the location of schools. The Project
Implementing Unit advises that the remaining 50 million textbooks (grades 5
and 6) will have been printed by September 1980 and delivered before the
Closing Date. Project costs have increased due to the increased scope of
the project and inflation since 1973 which has affected the cost of paper,
printing and transportation.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29. 1978;
Effective Date: May 11. 1979: Closing Date: June 30. 1985
The project is designed to help the Government meet the demand for
engineering technicians and trained accountants. The engineering technicians
(polytechnic) component is making reasonable progress. Staff appointments
follow the appraisal schedule. The first civil works contract for grading
work of the Technician Education Development Center (TEDC) and the Bandung
polytechnic (PT) have been awarded. Contractors for the remaining civil
works have been prequalified. Bids for the construction of the TEDC and
the Bandung PT were opened in March and evaluation in April, about six months
behind schedule. Equipment for the TEDC and Bandung PT is being tendered
and is scheduled to be awarded in September 1980, about three months behind
schedule. The PT expert services program is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976: Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The three subprojects under the Ministry of Education (MOE), Minis-
try of Manpower (MOM) and National Institute of Administration (LAN) suffered
(a) initial delays due to slow site acquisition and late contracting agencies;
and (b) additional delays due to slow awarding of physical facilities because
of weak project management, late release of budget funds and late ministerial



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 25 pages
approvals. Overall delays amount to about two years and will require post-
ponement of the Closing Date.  The MOE component's objectives are to build,
equip and commission four Technical Training Centers (TTCs) for technical
training at secondary level and two Faculties of Technology in Teacher Train-
ing Colleges (FKTs). Civil works are completed and 75% of equipment contrac-
ted, but due to the necessity to retender some equipment, the project is about
two years behind appraisal schedule. The MOM component's objectives are to
build, equip and commission 17 new vocational training centers and to provide
26 mobile training units. About 50% of civil works are completed and 45% of
equipment contracted. Technical assistance is on schedule. The LAN compo-
nent's objectives are to provide buildings, furniture, equipment and technical
assistance for the principal civil service training Institute in Indonesia.
Civil works are 20% complete, two years behind schedule, procurement of
furniture and equipment follows the civil works schedule.
Loan NIo. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7. 1977: Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project which finances the development of primary and secondary
teacher training has made satisfactory progress with the implementation of
the educational aspects. The National Team of 40 educators has completed the
in-country training of 110 educators and initiated training of 7,000 staff of
primary teacher training colleges (SPGs) and secondary teacher training
colleges (IPIPs). The implementation of physical aspects is delayed by 6-12
months because of problems with site acquisition, late release of budget
funds, and late approvals of recommended awards. Therefore, only about 15%
of civil works have been awarded and 4% completed. Corresponding percentages
for equipment are 28 and 16. Despite the delays, the Project Implementing
Unit still expects to complete the project on schedule.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14. 1977: Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven provinces by financing civil works
to renovate two and establish four provincial centers, instructional equipment
and vehicles, in-service training, materials development, a basic learning
fund, and related technical assistance. The project is making reasonable
progress. Civil works for all six centers have been awarded, two are comple-
ted and in use, three are about 90% completed and one, the Center of Semarang
has just been awarded. Furniture has been tendered for the four new centers
and about 55% of equipment has been awarded. Compared to appraisal estimates,
the physical facilities are delayed about 12 months. Progress in the educa-
tional aspects is that of 64 fellowships, 54 have been awarded and 44 conclu-
ded. Under the expert services program, two experts have completed services,
nine are in post, and four are still to be recruited. Staff appointment and
material development are on schedule.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 25 pages
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of the Government's long-
term strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural
manpower. It finances the renovation, furnishing and equipping, expansion
and relocation of 26 existing agricultural development schools and 16 exist-
ing agricultural in-service training centers; and the construction and
furnishing and equipping of 5 agricultural development schools and 7 agricul-
tural in-service training centers. It also provides technical assistance
for the improvement of curricula, education planning and evaluation. The
Project Implementation Unit is now fully staffed and implementation is gener-
ally on schedule. No major implementation problems have yet been encountered.
ENERGY
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: $46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet higher than estimated
equipment costs. Thereafter implementation proceeded smoothly. Both the 100
MW generating units are now in commercial operation. Arrangements are being
made to release retention payments. Disbursements are expected to be com-
pleted before the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  $41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The third 100 MW generating set at Muara Karang Thermal Power
Station was put into commercial operation in November 1980. The set is
operating satisfactorily.  Disbursements are expected to be completed before
the target closing date (mid-1980) as forecast.
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981
All equipment required for the project has been ordered in three
lots within the cost estimate. By end 1980 about 90% of the disbursement
would be complete. However, construction work lags behind schedule. While
there has been good progress on construction of 20 kV cables, installation
of the associated substations is well behind schedule. This is due to
problems of acquisition of land which the Government has been requested to
assist in solving.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 25 pages
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4. 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction of the fourth and fifth generating sets (200 MW each)
has been delayed mainly due to a misalignment of the center line of the
turbogenerator and power house foundations. There has been an inordinate
delay by the consulting engineer in finding an appropriate solution to the
problems. The fourth generating set is expected to be in commercial opera-
tion around May 1981, about 9 months later than the contract date, but only
3 months later than forecast at appraisal. Engineering of the Semarang 3
(Seventh Power) project and of the Java Interconnected system is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts, except for general construction and steel work have
been awarded at highly competitive costs. A reduction in foreign costs of
about $30.0 million is presently expected. Delays in award of contracts
for civil works caused by introduction of new procedures for such contract
awards by the Government have resulted in a three-month delay in the tight
construction program. It will delay commissioning of the 200 MW generating
set which is now expected in August 1982.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is on schedule so far, towards a target of
commissioning of the unit in January 1984, which was the appraisal estimate.
Bids for turbine generator and auxiliary equipment were evaluated and a
letter of intent for the contract was issued in January 1980 as scheduled.
Bids for steam generator and auxiliary equipment are under evaluation.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This Loan has not yet been declared effective.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 25 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089   Second Fertilizer Expansion:  $115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the
project operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to
about 92% in 1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion:  $70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976: Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned on November 26, 1977,
about four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUJSRI IV produced nearly
470,000 tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first
year of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded in
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Cadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 400 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 331 ha had
been purchased as of early 1979. 127 ha of the 270 ha of developed land
reserved for factory use has been sold to 107 firms, with full capacity
employment estimated at around 22,000. Slack sales and difficulties in
land acquisition have reduced the amount of land planned for sale from 337 ha
to 270 ha.  Operations are profitable with a cash surplus and bank deposits
of Rp 2,389 million over the past three years to the project owners, the
Municipal Government of Jakarta and the Government of Indonesia. The project
is projected to remain profitable.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 25 pages
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This loan became effective last September and progress is satis-
factory.
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
.$10 Million Loan of May 19. 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978: Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project consists of identifying and engineering much of an
optimum mining and transportation system to mine about 3.0 million tons per
year and ship about 2.5 million tons per year of coal to a power station which
is under construction at Suralaya in West Java. The project has experienced
some initial delays but is now progressing satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300  Population:  $13.2 Mfillion Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The performance of the Indonesian national family planning program
continues to show satisfactory results. Since 1972/73 the program targets
have been fully achieved and, in some cases, exceeded. The implementation of
the project is in its final stages. The construction of all buildings has
been completed and furniture and equipment procured, offices in Jakarta and
six provinces have been occupied and all provincial and subprovincial training
centers and nine nurse/midwife training schools are in operation. Most of the



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 20 of 25 pages
population education activities have been completed and the remainder are
expected to be completed this year. The production of films anid procurement
of a computer financed out of savings under this project will also be com-
pleted this year. The only delay expected will be in the training of secre-
taries and program managers, but this problem is expected to be resolved
shortly.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed, except
the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTC0 which is currently being
constructed. Since the Bank is financing only four floors and common services
for the eight-storey NFPTC and office building, it has proposed that it reim-
burse the Government 65% of the total cost and is awaiting their response with
regard to the remaining 35%. All furniture has been procured and all vehicles
will be delivered shortly. There continues to be delay in implementation of
the pilot community incentive scheme, due to protracted discussions between
the Government and Bank on the form of the study. With the completion of the
ten Provincial Training Centers, it has become necessary for the National
Family Planning Coordinating Board to recruit trainers for these centers,
although difficulties are being experienced in finding qualified candidates.
Delays have occurred in the implementation of the population education
component due to changes in curricula; delays in the release of funds have
hampered the training of trainers for vocational schools. however, all the
population education activites are expected to be completed on schedule by
early 1981.
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 14illion Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This Loan has not yet been declared effective.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory. Construction of the
Nutrition Academy has been completed and equipped and it is in full use. Its
student enrollment has increased from 100 to 160. The Nutrition Intervention
Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components, as well as the
fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The Food Technology



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 21 of 25 pages
Development Center civil works construction is virtually complete and services
are being installed, and Wings I, II and staff housing of the Center for
Research and Develpment in Nutrition have been constructed and services are
being installed; Wing III proceeds according to plan. While monitoring and
evaluation units for each component have been operational for six months, the
central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is just
starting to be staffed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress under the project is satisfactory. The Closing Date has
been postponed by one year.
Credit No. 898  Fifth Technical Assistance:  $10 Million Credit of MIay 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31. 1984
This credit became effective in September 1979 and progress is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Uillion Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and 1Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, and printing equipment required to produce maps is
installed. Resource evaluation activities, including the compilation of data
for Southern Sumatra and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of
coconut lands to be replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in
the new complex. Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior
operatives, has accelerated.  The new photography financed under the Canadian
parallel project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes
to have installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained
specialized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 22 of 25 pages
All key activities in the implementation schedule agreed with the
Government are completed but with delays of about one year. Construction of
1,200 km are under way and the equivalent of 520 km were completed at the
end of 1979. Some problems and delays in executing roads prevailed for
contracts started in 1976; delays were also encountered in awards of contracts
scheduled for 1977. The 1978 devaluation also contributed to a slower
apparent rate of disbursement as cost adjustments to Rupiah construction
contracts are still in process. Remedial measures were taken in 1978/79 (and
others are planned) which have much improved the rate of physical progress,
particularly for a few contracts where performance was very slow; however,
project completion is still forecast at about 18 months beyond the loan's
present Closing Date. Project costs in US$ are likely to be within appraisal
estimates but Rupiah costs are up significantly due to the devaluation for
which local funds are available.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Delays have been encountered in awarding contracts for about
500 km of road works which were tendered in mid-1979, somewhat behind the
implementation schedule. The 300 km balance of road works was scheduled
for tendering in May 1980, nearly 10 months behind the schedule. Preparation
of development programs for eight provincial public works departments (DPUPs)
has also fallen behind, and other project components closely linked to, or
forming integral parts of, the DPUP programs, such as procurement of road
maintenance equipment and construction of major support works, are now about
one year behind schedule. Delays have occurred also in appointing consul-
tants, but these delays are less serious.
M4arine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20. 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Although the delay in the appointment of a number of consultants had
caused a slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and dis-
bursements, progress has now been made in making effective consultant
contracts for sea transport planning (ISTS Team); for improving maritime
training (IMCO project); and for extending the contract for financial and
technical advisers to P.T. PANN, the project entity. Progress has also been
made by the new management of PANN and of the state shipping company, PELNI,
in their new roles and very encouraging financial results have been achieved
by applying cash control as proposed by consultants financed by the Bank. It
is likely though that only about 40% of the loan will be disbursed by the
December 31, 1980 Closing Date. Some of the major problems facing PANN in
acquiring and leasing ships are: (a) the effect of the 1978 devaluation of



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 23 of 25 pages
the Rupiah; (b) continued overtonnage in the fleet; and (c) the reluctance of
the Government in undertaking a ship scrapping program and in enforcing its
safety and ship classification regulations. It is anticipated that the scope
of the loan will be broadened to include other than general cargo inter-island
ships and that an extension of the present Closing Date will be requested.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Taniung Priok Port Proiect:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works has
delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made. Th
Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the impact of the 197
Rupiah devaluation, are 98% completed, and the Basin III civil works finance
by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 65% completed.
Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are 37% com-
pleted. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised construction
schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone overall
completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to estimate the
full effect of delays on project cost. The Closing Date has been extended
by two years from December 31, 1979.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in
mid-1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e. roads) is schedule
for December 1981. Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8%
in 1977 to 286,000 visitors and by a further 13% in 1978 to 328,000; the
trend continued in 1979 but the increase in the number of foreign visitors
has been modest due to re-emerging air access difficulties, particularly by
foreign carriers to Bali. Three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are
under consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made.
Construction of a first hotel at Nusa Dua is expected to start in 1980 for
completion by mid-1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040   Jakarta Urban Development:  $25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 24 of 25 pages
The kampung improvement part of the project has been completed.
Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the originai. lan of 1,980
ha. The Klender sites and services component is about 98% complete. Of the
total, 6,872 lots have been allocated to date, about 6,500 lots having been
occupied. The entire 7,250 units are expected to be available this year.
The Closing Date was recently extended by nine months due to delay in
completion of the project.
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of provision of basic sanitary facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to about
3,000 ha of densely populated areas in Jakarta and 374 ha in Surabaya.
Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot program in both
cities. Upgrading costs for the first two-year program have been within the
appraisal estimates. However, the costs for the third-year program have been
affected by the 1978 Rupiah devaluation. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in
Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in Surabaya have been covered so far,
benefitting a total population of about 1.4 million. About 180 community
health workers in Jakarta and 45 in Surabaya have been trained and are
working in the kampungs. Land acquisition problems still continue to cause
some delays in completing the requisite number of health facilities and the
Closing Date was recently extended.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979: Effective Date: September 26. 1979; Closing Date:
December 31. 1983
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The pro-
ject is at an early stage of implementation.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31. 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule and the Closing Date has been extended by



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 25 of 25 pages
eighteen months. All equipment supply and all major civil wrks contracts,
with the exception of pipe laying contracts (delayed because of slow
procurement of pipe), are under execution. A cost overrun of about 30%,
caused by increases in local costs due to project delays and devaluation, is
expected. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water
enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. Also, disbursements are expected to
accelerate now that contracts are signed and equipment and supplies are being
delivered.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This loan was declared effective on February 29, 1980, and
initial progress is satisfactory.



- 52 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 15 months.
(b) Project prepared by: Government of Indonesia with FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program (CP) assistance.
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank: March 1979
Date of first Bank mission to consider project: May 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: September 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: June 23, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: November 5, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a) Assistance to each participating smallholder would be limited for:
(i) planting, replanting and developing immature trees to 2 ha; or
(ii) for rehabilitation to 5 ha; or (iii) if the maximum under
either (i) or (ii) is not utilized, a combination in the ratio of
1:2.5 for planting to rehabilitation, subject to the minimum of
0.5 ha for activities in (i) (para. 37(a)).
(b) Establishment of the Head Office and appointment of its manager
are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 41).
(c) Establishment of the six project Provincial Offices (POs) would
occur not later than December 31, 1980 while the other nine POs
would be established on a phased basis three each by March 31,
1982; March 31, 1983; and March 31, 1984 (para. 41).



- 53 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) Conditions of disbursement for the respective components of the
project would be as follows:
(i) for the smallholder component a financing agreement between
Bank Indonesia (BI), on behalf of the Government and Bank
Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), and a Subfinancing agreement between
BRI and Directorate General of Estates (DGE); and
(ii) for the seed garden funds, a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between BI, acting on behalf of the Government and the
relevant PNP/PTPs (the Government-owned estates) (para. 47).
(d) It was agreed during negotiations that a copra processing and
marketing study would be completed by September 30, 1981 and that
thereafter Government would take appropriate steps to implement
recommendations agreed to by the Government and the Bank (para. 56).






$2$44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i :  H
Sj}ttt                            W[__               6       X  b   j~~~~~~~~~~~?
s +>?                                          '-/      --^      %_  ' t~~~~~~
?g   +                          +7'ts         tis'' '            <                    1\~_2
.   Cg   S  D  , 2  u / > > _? S _H~~~~ql
2   :                     ,-t:      t)A,A<  rA    
9  :  ^_ >1 >> a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~90 f
: , , ty t i > 5 5 0 0 , 8 r e ~~~~a \ i0 0  
2 b X     2% 0g /t                >2 H       /             ;LJ' NEA  



