FITCIAL
DOCNTS       LOAN NUMBER 1898 IND
Loan Agreement
(Smallholder Coconut Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated ar, 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1898 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             a               , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (herTnafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "BAPPENAS" means the Borrower's National Development
Planning Agency;
(b) "BI" means Bank Indonesia, established by and operating
under Law No. 13/1968 of the Borrower;
(c) "BRI" means the Bank Rakyat Indonesia, established by
and operating under Law No. 21/1968 of the Borrower;
(d) "Credit Expenditures" means all expenditures under Part
A of the Project, which are intended to be recovered from Partici-
pating Smallholders and, in the case of seed gardens (Part B.4),
from PNP/PTPs;
(e) "CWC" means one of the 70 Coconut Working Centers in the
Project Area which are responsible for managing the Project at the
field level;
(f)  "DGE" means the Directorate General of Estates in the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;


﻿-2-
(g) "HO" means the Head Office unit established and main-
tained in the DGE responsible for basic management of the Project,
and for carrying out the Borrower's further smallholder coconut
development projects;
(h) "Non-Credit Expenditures" means all expenditures under
Parts B.1 - B.3 and C of the Project, which are not intended to
be recovered from Participating Smallholders;
(i) "Participating Smallholder" means a smallholder and his
family planting, replanting and rehabilitating coconuts in the
Project Area under Part A of the Project;
(j) "PNP" means a PERUSAHAAN NEGARA PERKEBUNAN, a state-
owned enterprise of the Borrower established and so designated
under Government Regulation No. 14/1968;
(k) "PO" means one of about 15 Provincial Offices to be
established under the DGE, responsible for implementing the
Project and the Borrower's further smallholder coconut development
projects;
(1) "Project Area" means those areas in the Provinces of
Aceh, Lampung, South Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi, North Sulawesi
and Maluku in which Part A of the Project is being carried out;
(m) "PTP" means a PERSEROAN TERBATAS PERKEBUNAN, which is
a public sector agricultural estate of the Borrower established
pursuant to Law No. 9/1969 of the Borrower; and
(n) "Rp" and "Rupiah" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-six million dollars ($46,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect


﻿-3-
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, engineering, financial and administrative practices,
and shall provide, in a timely manner as needed, the funds, facil-
ities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish an HO and POs
and shall appoint managers thereto as follows: (i) a manager for
the HO; and (ii) managers for the offices in the Provinces of: (A)
Aceh, Lampung, South Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi, North Sulawesi
and Maluku by December 31, 1980, and (B) North Sumatra, West
Sumatra, Bali, West Nusatenggara, East Nusatenggara, Riau, Jambi,
West Kalimantan and Southeast Sulawesi in phases, three by
March 31, 1982, three by March 31, 1983, and three by March 31,
1984.


﻿-4-
(b) Before making any appointment to the position of HO
Manager, the Borrower shall inform the Bank of the names, qualifi-
cations and experience of the persons considered for such appoint-
ment and shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to ex-
change views with the Borrower on the qualifications and experi-
ence of such persons.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the HO, the POs and
the CWCs to be at all times adequately staffed with suitably
qualified and experienced personnel and the Borrower shall ensure
that the HO, the POs and the CWCs offer such compensation as shall
be necessary to attract and retain such qualified and experienced
personnel.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall ensure that a Participating Smallholder receives
assistance (a) for planting, replanting and developing immature
trees for not more than 2.0 ha, or (b) for rehabilitation for not
more than 5.0 ha, or (c) for a combination of (a) and (b), if
there is less than maximum activity under either, at a ratio of 1
unit of activity under (a) is the equivalent of 2.5 units under
(b), provided that, at least 0.5 ha is assisted under (a).
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall not later than June 30,
1981, furnish to the Bank a training program for Part B.3 of the
Project acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.06. In carrying out the Project the Borrower shall
employ the following consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank:
(a) by December 31, 1980, (i) a financial advisor, (ii) a
training specialist; and (iii) a crop protection specialist, and
(b) by June 30, 1981, two agricultural specialists on coco-
nut production.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) for purposes of financing Credit Expenditures, cause the
following agreements to be entered into, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank:


﻿-5-
(i) a Financing Agreement between BI acting on behalf
of the Borrower, and BRI;
(ii) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between BI acting on
behalf of the Borrower and the relevant PNP/PTPs;
and
(iii) a Sub-Financing Agreement between BRI and DGE;
said agreements to include, inter alia, the provisions set forth
in Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(b) take such steps as shall be necessary or appropriate to
ensure that the financing of Non-Credit Expenditures is carried
out as set forth in Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.08. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 hereof, the Borrower shall cause the
parties to the agreements referred to in subparagraphs (a) (i),
(a) (ii) and (a) (iii) of Section 3.07 above to perform in a
timely manner their respective obligations thereunder.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
review: (a) by September 30, 1981, the study referred to in Part
C.1 of the Project and shall thereafter take all appropriate steps
to implement the recommendations agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank; (b) by June 30, 1982, the data referred to in Part C.2
of the Project; and (c) by September 30, 1981 the studies referred
to in Part C.3 of the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, the rehabilitation of existing holdings referred to
in Part A.4 of the Project in accordance with criteria satisfac-
tory to the Bank, which criteria shall include, inter alia:
(a) a stand of healthy bearing palms (age not over 25-30 years),
(b) a plant population of between 100-160 palms/ha, (c) current
annual yields of about 30-40 nuts per bearing tree, and (d)
willingness of smallholder to undertake improved agricultural
practices.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, i2so facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision thereof
and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including gold and foreign exchange assets held by any institution
performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabili-
zation fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,


﻿-8-
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, including inter alia, separ-
ate accounts reflecting all expenditures described in Categories
(2), (4) and (5) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis
of certificates of expenditures.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts and financial
statements (statements of income and expenses and related state-
ments) of the Project, and the accounts of BRI related to the
Project for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than nine months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested including,
without limitation to the foregoing a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in
Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of
the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of certifi-
cates of expenditures have been used for the purpose for which
they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the said accounts and financial statements
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
(c) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts,
contracts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditures and shall enable the
Bank's accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) ensure that the plantings, replantings and rehabilitated
areas included in Part A of the Project are maintained in accor-
dance with sound agricultural, financial and administrative
practices; shall ensure that such plantings and replantings
develop to maturity, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
and


﻿(b) maintain and operate the equipment, buildings, nurs-
eries, vehicles and other facilities included in the Project in
accordance with sound engineering, agricultural, administrative
and financial practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that BRI: (a) main-
tains or establishes.a sufficient number of village units or
mobile units to serve the credit needs in the Project Area; and
(b) is adequately organized and staffed so as to enable it to
carry out its duties under the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that any of the agreements
referred to in subparagraph (a) of Section 3.07 of this Agreement
shall have been amended, terminated or abrogated without the
concurrence of the Bank, or any party to any such agreement shall
have failed to perform any of its obligations thereunder so as
to affect adversely the objectives of the Project or any part
thereof.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof namely, that the event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the HO shall have been established and its manager shall have
been appointed all in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date F)1A4&16  ?4 /97, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes, of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for International
Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                      Telex:
DJMLN JKT 45799
MINISTRY FINANCE                   DITJMON JKT 46415
Jakarta                            DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 11 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Credit Expenditures
(1) Machinery, farm               1,740,000
equipment and polybags
(a) directly imported                          100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(b) locally manu-                              95% of local
factured                                  expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) imported pro-                              65% of local
cured locally                             expenditures
(2) Seed nuts                     5,800,000         100%
(3) Fertilizers and
agrochemicals
(i) Urea                     2,700,000         100%
(ii) Other fertilizers        7,830,000         100% of for-
and chemicals                             eign expendi-
tures
(4) Labor                        17,930,000         85%
(5) Seed garden                     990,000         75%


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
Non-Credit Expenditures
(6) Tractors and trailers          540,000
(a) directly imported                         100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(b) locally manu-                             95% of local
factured                                 expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) imported pro-                             65% of local
cured locally                            expenditures
(7) Consultants' services        1,764,000         100%
(8) Studies                      1,806,000         100%
(9) Retroactive financing          400,000         As specified
for Categories (1), (2),                      in relevant
(3) and (4)                                   Categories
(10) Unallocated                 4,500,000
TOTAL        46,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿-14-
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $400,000 may be made
in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4), on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
July 1, 1979;
(b) in respect of payments made for expenditures under
Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4), unless and until evidence satis-
factory to the Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank, that
BI, BRI and the DGE have entered into the agreements referred to
in subparagraphs (i) and (iii) of Section 3.07 (a) of the Loan
Agreement in accordance with the provisions thereof; and
(c) in respect of payments made for expenditures under
Category (5) unless and until evidence satisfactory to the Bank
shall have been furnished to the Bank that BI and the relevant
PNP/PTPs have entered into the agreement referred to in subpara-
graph (ii) of Section 3.07 (a) of the Loan Agreement in accordance
with the provisions thereof.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not


﻿- 15 -
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage chen applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agree-
ment, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan
as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
1.   Planting and replanting about 32,000 ha of coconuts with
hybrid planting material, beginning in the first two years in
selected areas in Lampung, North Sulawesi and South Sulawesi and
beginning in the third year in Aceh, Central Sulawesi, and Maluku.
2.   Planting about 5,700 ha of coconuts with indigenous tall
material in selected areas where hybrids have not yet been
introduced.
3.   Assistance in the development of about 3,500 ha of immature
talls including the provision of fertilizers, chemicals and main-
tenance labor.
4.   Rehabilitation of about 38,000 ha of coconuts on existing
holdings.
Part B:
Strengthening the Borrower's coconut development program by:
1.   Improving the capabilities of about 70 Coconut Working
Centers in the areas serving Part A of the Project by providing,
inter alia, extension of office buildings, houses and small ware-
houses, vehicles, tractors and operating costs;
2.   Establishing and staffing a Head Office and about 15 Provin-
cial Offices, including, inter alia, the provision of vehicles and
warehouses;
3.   Training technical and administrative staff of the Coconut
Working Centers and Head Office and Provincial Offices referred
to in (1) and (2) above and informal training of Participating
Smallholders; and
4*   Establishment by selected PNP/PTPs of three 180 ha seed
gardens to develop a supply of hybrid coconut planting material.


﻿- 17 -
Part C:
1.   A study of the copra marketing and processing system in
Indonesia, including the preparation of a development strategy for
the processing industry, the determination of the extent of cost
recovery under present planting programs and recommendations for
the development of coconut by-product industries.
2.   Assisting in planning long-term coconut development by pre-
paring comprehensive data on existing coconut holdings.
3.   Feasibility studies for a follow-up project.
4.   Providing about 168 man-months of technical assistance.
The Project is to be completed by December 31, 1985.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1986
through   February 15, 2000                   1,535,000
On August 15, 2000                                 1,485,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                              1.40%
before maturity
More than three years but not                          2.75%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                            5.00%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                         7.40%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                        8.30%
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                               9.25%
before maturity


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph 1.2
of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to the
Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days
prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the
case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail
and containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 21 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid. price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 22 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods expected to cost the
equivalent of less than $50,000 shall be awarded after competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Bank; provided that the cost of goods so procured
shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $1,500,000.
2.   Up to $100,000 equivalent in value of fertilizers (excluding
urea) and agrochemicals may be procured annually on the basis of
prudent shopping after soliciting at least three quotations.
3.   Sprayers, tools and water pumps may be procured through
prudent shopping after soliciting at least three price quotations.
4.   Hybrid seed nuts and tall variety seed nuts may be procured
from selected estates and small holders at prices set annually
pursuant to directives issued by the DGE.
5.   Urea may be procured from PT. Pusri's designated distributors
in accordance with the Borrower's procedures.
6.   Contracts for cover-crop seeds may be awarded after competi-
tive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its com.Aents, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform


﻿- 23 -
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that
the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the rea-
sons for its determination.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Project Financing Agreements
A.   Provisions to be Included in the Credit Expenditure
Financing Agreements
1.   The Credit Expenditure Financing Agreements shall
consist of:
(a) a Financing Agreement between BI and BRI (here-
inafter referred to as the "Financing Agreement"),
to provide for the use of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated to Credit Expenditures (other than for
seed garden  expenditures) and other contributions
to the financing of such Credit Expenditures for
the Project;
(b) a Sub-Financing Agreement between BRI and DGE
to provide for the use of the funds referred to
under paragraph 1 (a) above;
(c) Smallholder Credit Agreements between BRI and
Participating Smallholders to provide for the
use of the said funds by the Participating Small-
holders; and
(d) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between BI and the
relevant PNP/PTP (hereinafter referred to as the
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement") to provide for the use
of the proceeds of the Loan, and other contribu-
tions, allocated to seed garden expenditures.
2.   The Financing Agreement shall require BI and BRI, inter
alia, to make available the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn for
Credit Expenditures, other than for seed garden expenditures,
(presently estimated at about $37,800,000 equivalent), and all
such other funds as are required (presently estimated at about
(a) Rupiahs 8,107,000,000 through FY 86 for BI and (b) Rupiahs
2,027,000,000 through FY 86 for BRI).
3.   BI shall, under the Financing Agreement, make available
to BRI all amounts required to finance Credit Expenditures (except
BRI's share of the financing of such expenditures) and BRI shall,


﻿- 25 -
under the Sub-Financing Agreement with DGE make available to DGE
the amounts required to meet Credit Expenditures (including the
amounts to be provided by BRI). Such amounts shall be determined
on the basis of annual budgets to be submitted not later than the
end of October and to be approved by BAPPENAS and the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance not later than the last week of January of the
following year, and shall be advanced to DGE quarterly, suffi-
ciently in advance so as to enable the functions under Part A of
the Project to be carried out without delays resulting from un-
availability of funds. To enable BRI to release in time the
required funds to DGE, the Financing Agreement shall provide for
arrangements under which such funds will be made available to BRI
in advance of BRI's need to release such funds to DGE. DGE shall
be authorized, within the approved annual budgets, and subject to
the approval of the Ministry of Finance, to anticipate their
quarterly requirements should project implementation proceed more
rapidly than planned, provided adequate notice thereof is given to
BRI and BI.
4.   (a) The Sub-Financing Agreement shall specify that the
cash payments to be made to Smallholders on account of their labor
under the Project shall be made by BRI to Participating Small-
holders after approval by the relevant CWC on behalf of DGE.
(b) The Sub-Financing Agreement shall also require
that, at the .time each Smallholder enters into the Project, such
Smallholder signs an agreement with the relevant CWC on behalf of
DGE whereby such Smallholder undertakes the obligations set forth
in paragraph 5 below until such time as he has entered into a
Smallholder Credit Agreement.
5.   (a) BRI and DGE shall require each Participating Small-
holder to enter into a Smallholder Credit Agreement with BRI not
later than three years after such Smallholder has entered into the
Project; provided, that if a Smallholder shall not be eligible to
enter into a Smallholder Credit Agreement at the end of three
years as a result of factors outside of tte Smallholder's control,
such Smallholder shall continue to participate in the Project
until such time as he becomes eligible to enter into a Smallholder
Credit Agreement; provided further, that if a Smallholder*is
otherwise not eligible to enter into a Smaliholder Credit Agree-
ment, such Smallholder shall not receive any further assistance
under the Project.
(b) Under the Smallholder Credit Agreement the Partici-
pating Smallholder will agree, inter alia, to repay to BRI his


﻿- 26 -
share of Credit Expenditures charged to his individual Small-
holder's account, on the following basis:
(i) (A) with respect to talls principal shall be
amortized over 20 years including a grace period of
8 years; and (B) with respect to hybrids principal
shall be amortized over 15 years including a grace
period of 6 years; for both (A) and (B) the date
from which grace and repayment periods shall be
calculated for a Province shall be the beginning of
the planting or replanting season in which coconut
was planted or replanted in the said Province;
(ii) (A) with respect to developing talls principal
shall be amortized over 15 years including a grace
period of 6 years; and (B) with respect to rehabi-
litation principal shall be amortized over 10 years
including a grace period of 3 years; in both (A)
and (B) the date from which grace and repayment
periods shall be calculated shall be from the
beginning of the planting season that the Partici-
pating Smallholder entered the Project; and
(iii) the   Participating Smallholder's debt obligation
shall bear interest after the grace period at a
rate not lower than 6% per annum on the amounts
outstanding.
6.   The relevant CWC shall be required to establish and
maintain appropriate accounts to record all Credit Expenditures.
BRI shall establish and maintain individual Smallholder credit
accounts for Participating Smallholders, to which shall be charged
each Participating Smallholder's share of Credit Expenditures, in
accordance with criteria and procedures to be agreed between the
Borrower, BRI and the Bank.
7.   The Smallholder Credit Agreements shall also provide
that the Participating Smallholders shall develop and maintain
their plantings and replantings and rehabilitated areas in accord-
ance with all rules and cultivation standards decided by the HO.
8.   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall require BI and the
relevant PNP/PTP, inter alia, to make available the proceeds of
the Loan withdrawn for seed garden expenditures (presently esti-
mated at about $1,200,000 equivalent) and ali such other funds as


﻿- 27 -
are required for such expenditures (presently estimated at about
Rupiahs 320,000,000 through FY 86).    Such funds shall be onlent
by BI to the relevant PNP/PTP at an interest rate of 13.5% per
annum on the amounts outstanding.   The principal shall be repaid
over 12 years including a grace period of 6 years.
9.   The relevant PNP/PTP shall be required to establish
and maintain appropriate accounts to record all seed garden
expenditures.
B.   Financing Arrangements for the Non-Credit Expenditures
1.   Non-Credit Expenditures are defined as all expenditures
under Parts B.1 - B.3 and C of the Project, which are not intended
to be recovered from Participating Smallholders.
2.   Non-Credit Expenditures shall be financed with funds
from the Loan Account and with funds from the Borrower. The HO and
each PO shall open an account in BRI to which funds for Non-Credit
Expenditures shall be credited. The amounts to be made available
to the HO and the relevant POs shall be determined on the basis of
annual budgets to be submitted by DGE not later than the end of
October and to be approved by BAPPENAS and Borrower's Ministry of
Finance not later than the last week of January of the following
year and shall be advanced to the HO and relevant POs quarterly,
sufficiently in advance so as to enable them and the relevant CWCs
to carry out their respective functions under Parts B.1 - B.3 and
C of the Project without delays resulting from the unavailability
of funds.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 4    L   day of        19.
FOR SECRETARY


