GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
r-   288
South Africa
Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Project Document
February 1998
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Dgocumentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environrhent in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, an.d depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the Unitec Nations Environment Programme,
and the Wcrld Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of t[he document.
Global Environment Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 17288 SA
South Africa
Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Project Document
February 1998
Environment Group
Africa Region






PART I: Project Summary






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Africa Region
AFCO1
Project Appraisal Document
South Africa
Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Date: January 8, 1998                                                                             []   Draft          [X]  Final
Task Manager: Francois Falloux                                          Country Manager: Pamela Cox
Project ID: ZA-GE-35923                                                 Sector: Environment
Lending Instrument: GEF grant                                           PTI:            [ ]  Yes                [ ]  No
Project Financing Data                              [    Loan          [     Credit         []   Guarantee          [X ]  Other: GEF
Grant
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): $12.3 million
.... ............ .............................................................................................. ................................................ ........... .......................................................................
Proposed Terms:                                        [     Multicurrency            []   Single currency
Grace period (years):                        [ ]    Standard Variable        [    Fixed                  [       LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:
Commitment fee:            %
Service charge:          %
T        ........"Il........................................................................... ............................................................................................................................................................
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                    Local                    Foreign                Total
Cofinanciers                                                                                  0                        1.0                  1.0
IBRD/IDA                                                                                    0.0                        0.0                  0.0
Domestic Sources                                                                           77.9                        0.0                77.9
GEF                                                                                         0.0                       12.3                12.3
Total                                                                                      77.9                       13.3                91.2
orrower:
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): South African National Parks, The Table Mountain Fund
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):                 1998           1999            2000           2001       2002          2003
Annual 6.0               1.1             1.4            1.3        1.2           1.3
Cumulative  6.0              7.1             8.5            9.8         11.0          12.3
For Guarantees:                                                   [      Partial Credit         []  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing availablF  without guarantee?:                               []      Yes                    [       No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Expected effectiveness date: 4/15/98                                                    Closing date: 6/30/2004



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 2
Country: South Africa                                          Project Tile: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators):
To ensure rehabilitation and sustainable protection of the globally significamt flora, and related fauna, of the Cape
Peninsula including surrounding marine ecosystems, and to initiate conservation planning and conservation activities for
the entire Cape Floral Kingdom.
Background
South Africa ranks as the third most biologically diverse country in the world. It is the only country in the world to have
within its borders an entire plant kingdom: the Cape Floral Kingdom. This area has the highest recorded species diversity
for any similar sized temperate or tropical region in the world. The Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism
(DEAT) of South Africa has characterized this area as "the world's 'hottest hotspot' of global conservation concern."
Within the Cape Floral Kingdom, the Cape Peninsula (see map in annex 11) occupies a key position. This small area of 471
km2 contains 2,285 native plant species, over a quarter of those found in the Cape Floral Kingdom and more than those
found in the entire British Isles. Of these plant species, 105 are endemic and 141 are threatened. The primary vegetation,
covering 92% of the area, is the Cape Fynbos (cf. "fine bush"). Several faunal groups also exhibit exceptionally high levels
of species richness and endemism. For terrestrial invertebrates, the degree of endemism is extraordinary when compared to
adjacent regions with similar vegetation types. The Cape Peninsula is one of :four "Endemic Bird Areas" recognized in South
Africa by Birdlife International (formerly the International Council for Bird Preservation).
About 60% of the Cape Peninsula, covering 291 km2 has been awarded some protection from development under the
Environment Conservation Act No. 73 of 1989. This area, called the Cape Peninsula Protected Natural Environment
(CPPNE, see annex 11) has mostly public ownership (80%) at national, provincial, regional and municipal authority levels.
This management is extremely fragmented, with 14 different public bodies involved. The rest of CPPNE belongs to 174
private landowners of whom 90 own I ha or less each. The private land is generally located on the fringes of the public
areas, and do not critically fragment the integrity of the conservation area. Priority will be given to contract larger land
holdings into the park to ensure compatible conservation management. Even if this process would be slow or less than
successful, critical biodiversity values would be safeguarded by the inclusion of public lands in the park.
The terrestrial biodiversity of the Cape Peninsula is threatened, however, by alien invasive species (particularlyAcacia
cyclops) introduced with the best of intentions to South Africa generations ago, that if nothing is done will spread and subdue
the natural vegetation almost entirely unless effectively controlled. A study in 1994 showed that 33% of the natural
vegetation on the entire peninsula was lightly invaded by alien species (canopy cover < 25%) and about 11% is densely
invaded (> 25%). The rate of infestation varies considerably depending on soil fertility, rainfall, altitude, fire frequency and
differences in reproductive and dispersal ability of each alien species. It is therefore difficult to model the spread in a laissez-
faire scenario. Based on aerial photo interpretations, experts have modeled infestation using various declining spread rates,
showing that the current infestation may reach 70-90% of the area in about 20 years. This is not the baseline scenario, as
there is a clear domestic commitment to assign resources to alien vegetation oantrol also in the absence of external funding.
This is not expected to be sufficient to effectively eliminate the problem, however, and at the end of the project period a
significant part of the infested areas, particularly the dense stands, would remaLin. (See annex 4).
The cost of vegetation control rises quickly with the density of the stand; from about $90 per hectare (initial clearing) for a
lightly infested stand to about $1,200 for a heavily infested hectare. There is also the threat of urban expansion unless
regulated by granting the areas the highest possible legal protection as a national park, and the threat of excessive visitor use
of limited areas unless properly managed.
In 1993, World Wide Fund for Nature-South Africa (WWF-SA) established a conservation fund, the Table Mountain Fund
(TMF), to mobilize community support for conservation of the Cape Peninsula and to finance small-scale NGO and
community-managed conservation initiatives in and around the CPPNE. These: NGO initiatives complement and fill gaps in
the inadequate conservation efforts of the public authorities. To date, WWF-SA has raised over R8 million (nearly $2



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 3
Country: South Africa                                          Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
million) for the TMF. Its annual net incomes of about $100,000 finances several new and highly cost-effective biodiversity
conservation initiatives in the CPPNE and on adjoining privately-owned land each year. These have focused on invasive
species control, environmental emergency response and environmental education. WWF-SA has also initiated a land
acquisition program on the Cape. Since 1993, land with a total market value of $6 - $14 million has been purchased by, or
donated to, WWF-SA for conservation purposes.
The Peninsula's marine environment is influenced on one side by the Atlantic Ocean and on the other side by the Indian
Ocean. Species diversity and endemism reflect the heterogeneity of oceanic conditions, particularly so at the "mixing area"
of Cape Point. Biotic components are diverse, ranging from microorganisms to large mammals, and in spring, several species
of whale gather in the waters of False Bay. Waters off the Cape Peninsula are additionally abundant in several species of
fish, providing a primary source of income for many local fishing communities, and sport for recreational anglers. The Cape
Peninsula is rich in marine species endemic to southern Africa. For example, all 24 species of resident rockpool fish that
occur there are endemic to southern Africa. Of the 259 continental-shelf fish species which occur around the Peninsula,
almost 90% are endemic to southern Africa.
There are currently seven Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) on the Cape Peninsula. Only two of these are offering effective
protection for marine life: The Miller's Point Marine Reserve and the Kalk Bay Marine Reserve. Three of the remaining
ones are designated for the protection of the commercially important West Coast Rock Lobster, while exploitation of other
marine species is permitted. The last two MPAs protect marine invertebrates, while allowing other types of exploitation.
Limited budgets make patrolling infrequent and enforcement is rare with the exception of Abalone and Rock Lobster which
receive more active protection. Chemical pollution is not generally a problem at this stage, but False Bay north of the
proposed marines zone of the park has increasing chemical concentrations that should be a cause of concern for the park in
the future. Sewage is treated and is not considered an urgent problem, but raw sewage is sometimes spilled accidentally into
the sea. With a rapidly increasing urban population, the potential for sewage and stormwater pollution exists, and will need
to be addressed in the future. International shipping is intensive in the Cape Peninsula area. From 1985 to 1990, 17 small oil
spills occurred in or just outside False Bay. However, South Africa is relatively well equipped to handle such occurrences,
and even provides technical assistance to other countries in Southern Africa with regard to oil spill containment.
Overexploitation is likely to affect primarily the West Coast Rock Lobster, Abalone, Alikreukel and some linefish species of
which some are endemic to southern Africa. There are indications of decreasing stocks of these species. While the root
causes of these problems will lie outside of the boundaries of the future national park, the consolidation of marine protection
under unified management, and with the support of the highest legal protection, would provide additional strength in the
dialogue with external stakeholders.
In response to the global importance of, and serious environmental threats to, the Cape Peninsula, the Government of South
Africa has declared the Cape one of its top conservation priorities. It has decided to upgrade the CPPNE's conservation
status to that of a National park and to unify its management under the South African National Parks (SANP). The transfer
of most public land to SANP management is expected to be completed by early 1998 and the new national park will then
come into being.
Summary of Project Components
In order to achieve its sustainable development and global environment objectives of better conserving and sustainably using
the unique biodiversity of the Cape Peninsula and the Cape Floral Kingdom, this project will: (i) facilitate the establishment
and strengthen initial management of a new Cape Peninsula National Park, the area of which roughly corresponds to the
current CPPNE; (ii) expand NGO-managed community-based conservation activities in support of the new national park and
throughout the Cape Floral Kingdom by supplementing the capital resources of the Table Mountain Fund; and (iii) support
the preparation of the first comprehensive conservation strategy for the entire Cape Floral Kingdom.
2  rojectcomponent (see   ex 2.for a detailed description and Annex..for ra detailed cost breakdown):
The South African National Parks is the designated manager of the project's terrestrial and marine conservation
component, for which the largest portion of GEF funds ($6.3 million) are requested. These funds will co-finance a six-



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 4
Country: South Africa                                       P'roject Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Consewvatlon Prct
year program of urgently needed conservation activities in the new national park that will have significant global benefits
and that would otherwise not be undertaken. These activities will include: (i) accelerated clearing of invasive alien
species (particularly acacia and pine trees) and annual follow-up maintenance using labor-intensive techniques to
facilitate natural regeneration of indigenous species; (ii) environmental edlucation to enhance the public's understanding
of the unique biodiversity assets contained in the area and appropriate behaviors in support of its maintenance; (iii)
enhanced fire management that can reduce the incidence of wildfires and contain them, while simulating nature's own
renewal process in a controlled manner; (iv) improved tourist infrastructure and information to minimize environmental
pressure by directing visitors to well-maintained pathways and gateways which prevent erosion and excessive trampling
of the vegetation; (v) capacity building among contract labor that will be engaged in the activities mentioned above; (vi) a
pilot-type marine protection program that will build upon the existing but incomplete and poorly enforced Marine
Protected Areas system, and prepare the ground for extending their coverage and enforcing new and effective regulation
in a future phase; and (vii) a knowledge management component comprising monitoring and evaluation (M&E) to track
the performance of the project, consolidation and development of an Environmental Information System (EIS) for the
Cape Peninsula, and applied conservation studies program that will allow data gathering necessary for the effective
management of the national park. Studies of the urban interface will be undertaken in collaboration with municipal
authorities to determine suitable boundaries, appropriate land use planning and regulations for buffer zones surrounding
the park. The program proposed for alien plant eradication is based on: (a) about 20 years of research by the University of
Cape Town; (b) several years of experience acquired under the working for Water Program in the Western Cape Province
as well as by NGOs in the Cape Peninsula Area. The main lesson learned is the amazingly rapid re-establishment of the
natural ecosystem once alien plants are cleared and re-infestation avoided through regular maintenance.
The NGO-managed community conservation program in the Cape Region is the second proposed recipient of GEF funds.
A $5 million GEF contribution to the Table Mountain Fund is requested for this purpose. These funds would supplement
the $2 million cash contributions and over $6 million in land purchases and donations that WWF-SA has already
mobilized in support of conservation of the Cape Peninsula and the Cape F'loral Kingdom. and would facilitate a major
expansion in community conservation involvement and field activities. The fact that the Table Mountain Fund is already
operational means that much of the initial costs of establishing a fund and deciding on appropriate administrative and
allocative mechanisms are already taken. The fund will be overseen and allocations determined by six trustees,
representing the three founders: SANP, WWF-SA and the Cape Peninsula 'National Park Committee, representing a
variety of stakeholders.
The fund will pursue two objectives: the first will be "... the conservation of the biological diversity of the Cape
Peninsula and its adjacent marine systems", as already being implemented through the $2 million domestic contributions.
The second and new objective of the expanded fund with the GEF contribution will be the conservation of the broader
CFK and its adjacent marine systems. Income generated by the GEF contribution will fund only activities that have
global environmental benefits including NGO-implemented alien plant eradication and further maintenance in areas
outside the national park as well as in the overall CFK; strengthening of existing small reserves via NGOs and promotion
of conservation activities in the farming communities; visitor management reviews aiming at minimizing environmental
pressure; conservation studies; and environmental education programs. Only GEF funds will be eligible for financing
conservation activities in the broader CFK, as domestic contributions have been made on the premise of an exclusive
focus on the Cape Peninsula.
The third GEF component will consist of studies and consultations to help define a biodiversity conservation strategy for
the broader Cape Floral Kingdom (CFK), involving a large number of stakeholders ($1 million). Priority conservation
areas in the Agulhas Plain, De Hoop and the West Coast Biosphere Reserve have already been identified. This process
will identify the main stakeholders and ensure their participation, identify specific "champions" for tasks to be done,
identify information gaps, prioritize and commission conservation planning work to close these gaps, develop a strategic
action plan and explore funding possibilities for the future.
Overall costs of and financing plan for the project are summarized below. Baseline component costs that will be
financed from domestic resources (the "DOM" column), including SANP ontral subsidies, provincial and local
government contributions, revenue from admission fees and tourism venture royalty, NGO land purchases and domestic



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 5
Country: South Africa                                                Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
donations. "CoF" signifies foreign co-financing in the GEF alternative. GEF funding of $12.3 million is requested for
the balance of the incremental cost of this alternative. The high cost per unit area for the new park should be seen in the
perspective of its impressive visitor statistics. Cape of Good Hope is expected to receive about 750,000 visitors in 1997,
growing to almost 1.4 million in the year 2003. Similarly, Boulders penguin park is expected to attract more than 0.5
million visitors in 1997, growing to about 0.9 million in 2003. Based on both growing numbers and rising fees, total
admission income, in the order of $1.2 million in 1997, is expected to grow to about $6.4 million in 2003.
Component                               Category               Cost Incl. Contingencies   % of Total
Baseline National Park management costs                                         DOM    GEF    CoF
capital expenditure                9.7       0.0    0.0
staff, overhead & loan servicing  34.0       0.0    0.0
Sub-total                         43.7       0.0    0.0       48
Terrestrial conservation activities           alien eradication,                6.8        4.1    0.4
fire management,                  3.5        0.3    0.0
environmental education           1.0        0.3    0.2
paths and gateways                3.7        0.5    0.2
capacity building                 1.8        0.0    0.2
knowledge management              0.8        0.8    0.0
road maintenance                  3.8        0.0    0.0
Boulders maintenance              4.3        0.0    0.0
Sub-total                        25.7        6.0    1.0        36
Marine conservation                           Feasibility studies               0.4        0.3     0.0        1
NGO-implemented conservation activities       Table Mountain Fund                8.0       5.0     0.0       14
CFK Strategy                                                                    0.1        1.0     0.0        1
Totalj 77.9       12.3    1.0  I    100
. ... ... ... ... ....  ...   .......................... ...... = ................ .. ,.,.,.,,,,,,,,,.,,,,....,,...............7?.... .2,3,,,,,,,,.. . ..1.0..............1
3. Global and national benefits: The main global benefit will be the rehabilitation and maintenance of a unique floristic
area, with more than two thousand plant species, of which more than one hundred are endemic and many are seriously
threatened. There will also be benefits from the conservation of the associated fauna and marine ecosystems, as well as
from the dissemination of the results from applied studies on alternative alien species eradication control techniques,
visitor management methods and environmental information systems. More specifically, the addition of GEF support
will: (a) accelerate the alien species eradication program, thereby significantly lowering the risk of further native species
loss and reducing the overall cost of alien plant control by more quickly eradicating existing stands; (b) increase
emergency response capacity and therefore reduce losses of rare and threatened terrestrial and marine species from oil
spills and fires; (c) initiate planning for more effective marine biodiversity conservation; (d) mobilize a larger and more
effective community-based program for conservation on the Cape Peninsula, which will increase the effectiveness of
alien species eradication efforts in the park by organizing complementary NGO eradication efforts in adjacent areas, and;
(e) initiate comprehensive strategic planning for the entire CFK, which would otherwise not happen due to scarcity of
resources.
More effective conservation will also directly benefit hundreds of thousands of foreign and local visitors every year, who
will be able to enjoy the enhanced indigenous flora and fauna. Local communities will also benefit from employment
opportunities, primarily in labor-intensive alien species clearing operations, fire management and path maintenance
works. The project will fund the training of local entrepreneurs from disadvantaged communities to take on contract
work for the Park and skills acquired in that process are expected to be used in the diversified Cape Town labor market as
well as in the overall Western Cape Province. In addition to its direct employment benefits, the new national park will
indirectly create many labor employment opportunities as a result of the increased stream of tourists to the area. A
growing service industry will provide lodging, food, drinks, guided tours, souvenirs and so on for the visitors. Fuelwood
harvesting related to alien plant eradication will benefit disadvantaged communities but only on a few sites close to roads
while in most cases eradicated plants will have to be burnt on the spot because of difficult topography. Wood use for



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 6
Country: South Africa                                               Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
carpentry activities would be exceptional because of the bushy, low timber value of eradicated plants. Park management
will also make concerted efforts to market its recreational values to commiLnities that previously have not had access to it.
This will broaden the constituency supporting biodiversity conservation in South Africa from a privileged elite into a
broad mass movement encompassing also disadvantaged groups. Finally, as pointed out by the STAP reviewer, in an
international context, the lessons learned from eradication of alien invasive species could be valuable in the search for
cost-effective interventions: "The effort to eliminate invasive species is particularly innovative. This aspect of the project
deserves particular attention, monitoring and evaluation, for the purpose of drawing technical and managerial lessons.".
.........................................................................................................I........................I........................I.....................................................................................
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: FY98-FY04 plus Table Mountain Fund-financed activities in perpetuity
Executing agencies: SANP and WWF-SA
Project coordination: SANP's Cape Peninsula National Park Management
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): Cape Peninsula National Park Committee, Table Mountain Fund Trustees
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: As defined by Article IV (Financial Conditions) in the respective
Grants Agreements.
The institutions involved are internationally known for their competence in their respective areas of responsibility. The
overall management of the Cape Peninsula National Park will be in the hands of the South African National Parks. This
organization is headed by a Board of Trustees with 18 members appointed by the Minister of Environment Affairs and
Tourism. SANP derives its powers from the National Parks Act, No. 57 of 1976. Once a cadastral entity has been
proclaimed as national park in terms of the act, all other conservation and land use planning legislation ceases to apply.
The management, decision-making and regulation of all activities within such proclaimed areas is solely the preserve of
the SANP. Hence, there is no conflict of influence with the Provincial Conservation Agency. In areas outside the park,
land use planning and conservation are in the realm of the Province, including provincial and local government, a division
of responsibility enshrined in the South African constitution. Hence, agreement on buffer zone management will have to
be reached in talks between the SANP and provincial and local authorities.
Long-term contracting into the park of private landowners is an ambition of the future park management, and would be
done in terms of Clause 2B (1)(b) of the National Parks Act. Acquisition ofl land for the purpose of a park is governed by
Section 3 in the same act. There are, however, no immediate plans to buy land for the extension of the park, merely to
contract private land into the park. The Bank would not finance purchase or leasing, but would review its consistency
with Bank policy. The new park will fall under the SANP Director Operations South, and the locally resident
administrative staff will comprise some 35 members, lead by a project coordinator. Park management will engage NGOs
in the execution of some of the conservation work.
Legislation governing the management of marine protected areas is contained in the Sea-Shore Act, No. 21 of 1935 and
the Sea Fisheries Act, No. 58 of 1973. Once a national park has been declared, however, neither of these acts will apply
(clause 30 of the National Parks Act). Hence, new regulation will need to be developed.
Legislation governing a proclaimed protected natural environment, such as the current Cape Peninsula Protected Natural
Environment i(CPPNE) is in the Environmental Conservation Act, No. 73 of 1989. A constitutional provision delegates
the powers of the act in terms of Sections 16 and 17 to the provinces. Therefore, the jurisdiction over the CPPNE
currently rests with the Provincial Conservation Agency (Cape Nature Conservation, CNC). In the future management of
this area, this legislation will be replaced by the National Parks Act.
As for the Table Mountain Fund (which is the historical name that does not reflect the planned extension to address
conservation in all of CFK), its rules of operation are defined in the Trust Deed. The utilization of net income from the
Table Mountain Fund will be administered by a six person Board of Trustees, nominated by the SANP, the Cape
Peninsula National Park Committee, and WWF-SA. The duties of the Trustees are regulated by the Trust Deed, anchored
in the provisions of the Trust Property Control Act, No. 57 of 1988. The objectives of the Trust cannot be changed
without the agreement of GEF. WWF-SA is the coordinator for domestic fundraising and expects to contribute a total of
about eight to ten million Rand (most of which is already secured) to the joinit Trust, and to assist the Trustees with



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 7
Country: South Africa                                         Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
technical and other expertise needed to fulfill the Trust's objectives. Management and administration of such funds has
been the core business of WWF-SA since it was established in 1968.
The Trustees will be assisted by one full-time Fund Conservation Coordinator, a professionally qualified conservationist
with at least five years of experience, and a Table Mountain Fund Assistant. Administrative costs are expected to be less
than 20% of the real returns from the fund investments. Approval of project proposals will be administratively handled
by the Fund Conservation Coordinator with an already established Project Approval Group (PAG) as an advisory body.
For the purposes of this Trust Fund, the PAG will be augmented with two representatives of the Cape Peninsula NGO
community. The Coordinator will manage the projects financially, and supervise this implementation. Evaluation will be
done by the Coordinator, who will report to the Trustees. Their annual report will be vetted by the Cape Peninsula
National Park Committee and WWF-SA's Environmental Education Committee and Conservation Advisory Committee.
Attention will also be given to disseminate lessons learned to all interested and affected parties throughout the life of a
project.
The investment policy of the Fund is guided by the need to: (a) provide adequate liquidity for the ease of disbursement;
(b) preserve the capital of the Fund; and (c) provide capital appreciation and adequate income to finance conservation
work for decades to come. More specifically, the return objectives are 7.5% net of domestic inflation per annum, and the
investment mandate is 50% OECD countries and 50% South African assets in a balanced portfolio containing 50%
equity, 30% fixed income assets, and 20% cash. Further guidelines for deviation ranges, credit, liquidity and currency
risk, and eligible investment instruments will be specified in the Operational Manual for the TF. Financial fund
management will be carried out by an independent, professional financial management company selected after
competitive bidding following industry standards. The returns from the fund would not be subject to taxation under the
Income Tax Act No. 58 of 1962.
Strategic planning for the Cape Floral Kingdom will consist of work in four specific areas: (a) terrestrial biodiversity; (b)
marine biodiversity and coastal zone management; (c) institutional, legal and policy framework; and (d) financial,
economic and social analysis. The preparation of the plan will be supervised by a Steering Committee chaired by
Minister Meiring (Finance and Environment Minister for the Western Cape). Day-to-day activities will be coordinated by
a full-time coordinator assisted by a small secretariat. Specific studies will be carried out by individual consultants and
consulting firms in accordance with the World Bank's procurement guidelines.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The framework for M&E and performance indicators is laid out in annex 1. The SANP Implementation Plan contains
further detail. A full-time staff will be designated "Manager, M&E and Evaluation" and will be supported by a GIS/IS
specialist. There will be supervision missions twice per year, and a mid-term review engaging external expertise.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the  Document number and date of latest CAS discussion:
project                             There is no formal CAS for South Africa. However, the MoP for the
Industrial Competitiveness and Job Creation Project (No. P-7050-SA) dated
April 16, 1997 contains a section outlining "... the strategic focus of [the
Bank's] program for the next twelve months." The Board discussed this
document on May 29, 1997. A full-fledged CAS is in the making.
The Bank's strategic focus for assistance to South Africa in the next twelve months identifies four priority areas where
the Bank can contribute: growth and macroeconomic stability, poverty alleviation, capacity building and regional issues.
The project relates well to the first three; The project will contribute to economic growth through increased tourism in the
Cape region; disadvantaged communities will benefit from direct employment opportunities (some 500 people p.a.) inside
the Park, but also from indirect activities generated by increasing tourism; and resources are ear-marked for the training
of small-scale entrepreneurs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 8
Country: South Africa                                                 Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
GEF Operational Strategy/Program Objective addressed by the project: The proposed project is consistent with the GEF
Operational Strategy for Biodiversity, especially support for in-situ conservation and protected areas under the
Operational Programs for Arid and Semi-Arid Ecosystems, Mountains and Coastal and Marine Ecosystems. The Cape
Floral Kingdom is recognized as globally important for plant species richness and extraordinary endemism and is one of
the Global 200 Eco-regions identified by WWF. The coastal and marine ecosystems around the Cape Peninsula and
along the De Hoop coast have been identified as priority areas for protection by the IUCN Global Representative System
of Marine Protected Areas study. The marine ecosystems provide important breeding and feeding habitats for species
such as penguins, seals and migratory whales.
The project is a national priority and responds to COP guidance by promoting conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity in mountain, semi-arid and marine ecosystems, both through extending and strengthening the protected area
systems and by initiating conservation planning in the broader Cape Floral Kingdom. It promotes the conservation of
endemic species and supports a program to address alien species invasion and habitat restoration. It specifically addresses
COP3 guidance by building capacity and partnerships for conservation; involving local communities, including providing
economic incentives and employment opportunities that will address rural poverty; promoting innovative financial
mechanisms to address recurrent costs of conservation that involve local government, NGOs and the private sector; and
by encouraging intersectoral cooperation in land use planning. By strengthening the involvement of local communities
and building strategic partnerships between NGOs, government agencies, local government and the private sector, the
Project will build a broader constituency for conservation in South Africa. The project also meets the objectives of other
international conventions, by addressing the conservation needs of migratory species.
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government's biodiversity conservation strategy must be seen against the particular socio-economic background of
the country. RSA urgently needs to address pressing issue of social services and infrastructure targeted to improve the
quality of life for disadvantaged communities. The Green Paper Towards an Environmental Policy for South Africa states
as its first objective: "To effect planned and measurable shifts in budgetary and resource allocations for environment to
achieve the goal of people-driven, sustainable resource management and the redress of past inequalities." Hence, public
funding for conservation purposes is set to decline. As a result, South African National Parks will in the short to medium
term be faced with insufficient financial resources to counter the threats against the globally significant biodiversity on
the Cape Peninsula.
The South African government has recently finalized a White Paper on a Biodiversity Strategy, which according to
domestic environmental expertise, clearly supports the selection of the Cape Peninsula as a national top priority for
conservation measures. While public funding to the new national park is foreseen for another four years ahead,
competing domestic priorities are increasingly strong and subsidies are clearly expected to decline. Some of the shortfall
will be countered by the private sector, such as the mobilization of almost $2 million in contributions to the Table
Mountain Fund. Nevertheless, this leaves a financial shortfall on the account of biodiversity conservation in South
Africa.
issue..s-   '~ -d   'sse............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The globally significant biodiversity is threatened by a number of factors, including invasive alien species, uncontrolled
fires, urban encroachment generally in the form of high-end development, and excessive visitor pressure in delicate areas.
The marine environment is threatened by over-exploitation of certain species and increasing pollution threats. In order to
effectively address these threats, immediate action is needed. Further delays will substantially increase the cost of
clearing alien species, and also increase the risk of irreversible biodiversity loss.
Previously in South Africa, biodiversity conservation was to a large extent for the benefit of a privileged elite. The new
SANP management is dedicated to change both perception and practice by active outreach activities into disadvantaged
communities. These will be offered employment opportunities, environmental education and enhanced access to the
park. A component of the manual clearance operations will be to train independent entrepreneurs that can establish small



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 9
Country: South Africa                                               Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
companies doing contract work for the SANP. Commercialization of indigenous species propagation will be investigated.
Maintenance of the indigenous flora will need to continue indefinitely beyond the project's first phase of six years.
Furthermore, with likely extensions of similar programs in other areas of the Cape Floral Kingdom, there will be a vast
demand for the skills acquired during the Cape Peninsula phase.
With regard to the Fund, its justification rests on a number of considerations. First, by being a fund in perpetuity, it
safeguards the long-term maintenance of biodiversity conservation. Initial clearing of invasive alien species must be
followed every year with maintenance work to prevent re-infestation. Second, the TF allows NGOs to implement
conservation activities (clearance of alien invasive species, environmental education activities targeting disadvantaged
communities, visitor management projects aiming at minimizing environmental pressure, studies of species of special
concern and so on). Hence, it contributes to the empowerment of an important sector of civil society. Third, the TF will
allow such activities to take place on private land adjacent to the Park, whereas the SANP resource can only be used
within the confines of the Park, i.e. generally public land, but also private land contracted in to the National Park. Fourth,
the Fund will allow conservation priorities to be addressed in the entire Cape Floral Kingdom, which significantly extends
the scope of possible activities. Fifth, the TF will be managed in such a way as to provide representation for NGOs in the
allocation of resources, which will contribute to the transparency of resource use for biodiversity conservation, and
respond to clearly voiced concerns within the NGO community.
An explicit provision in the Trust Deed is that income originating from the capital provided by the GEF will only be
applied insofar as it supports activities motivated by the achievement of global benefits. It cannot be used for the
acquisition of land and buildings.
With an additional capital of $5 million, expected to return about 7.5% p.a., the incremental resources, after allowance for
both financial and administrative management costs, would be in the order of $250,000 p.a. This can be compared with a
track record of resource use of close to $200,000 during the last three years. It should be recalled that the Fund was
launched only in 1993, and that it takes time to develop project proposals and experience in their implementation. It
should also be recalled that the expanded Fund will have a wider geographic scope, covering the entire CFK. It is the
assessment of the NGO community, which has been actively involved in the design of this project, that the increased
funding would be on a level that can be effectively utilized. Examples of previous activities are clearance operations,
footpath mapping, faunal research and the production of a thematic issue of Biodiversity and Conservation. The criteria
for obtaining future funding are clearly defined in the Trust Deed, and have been arrived at through a broad consultation
process involving NGOs.
~~~~~~~~~~~~... ............................ ............................................................................................................................................................................
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection;
The original proposal submitted by NPB/WWF-SA contained only a fund component. After thorough discussion about
the financing needs of the project, it was agreed that a major component must be dedicated to the short-term eradication
of invasive alien species that threaten some of the most valuable areas of the Cape Peninsula. Hence, a short-term
investment program was added to the fund component.
Furthermore, the exclusive focus on the Cape Peninsula was revised, in order not to forego the opportunity to urgently
address the needs of the entire Cape Floral Kingdom. Hence, a component that entails the shaping of a strategy for the
entire CFK was added during the first two years of this project. Thereafter, it is foreseen that this component can lead to
a project on its own.
At an early stage, the option of linking the eradication of alien invasive species component to the national Working for
Water program was considered. The objective of this program is to enhance water yield, mostly for urban consumption.
This would not be feasible, however, as only a small fraction (in the order of 2%) of Cape Town's water supply is derived
from watersheds within the park area. The small dams in question are located on open mountain terrain, and not subject
to significant interference of alien vegetation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    Page 10
Country: South Africa                                                 l'roject Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned).
Bank-Financed: Industrial competitiveness and Job Creation Project (Board approved). Urban Infrastructure Project
(under preparation). Other development agencies: Managing the Environment Locally (EU/Sweden/Norway) under Bank
guidance.
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
This is the first GEF project in South Africa. It is, first of all, based on conservation experience acquired and lessons
learned in that country, particularly on the alien plant eradication for rehabilitating natural "fynbos" ecosystems.
Technologies and methods have been worked out through about 20 years of applied research conducted by the University
of Cape Town and several years of implementation under the "Working for Water Program" mainly in the Western Cape
Province as well as through experience acquired by environmental NGOs. Nevertheless; these technologies will have to
be further improved and fine-tuned to the specificities and diversity of local systems. Hence the need for continued
monitoring and enhanced knowledge management systems provided under the project.
Lessons have to be drawn to a large extent from other countries. The Bank's global review of biodiversity projects
(Mainstreaming Biodiversity in Development, Nov. 1995) has shown that three of the most important facts for sustained
success pertain to (i) the empowerment of local communities, indigenous people, NGOs and other stakeholders as
partners in designing and implementing projects; (ii) the provision of financial sustainability including recurrent cost
financing, and (iii) monitoring and evaluation of the project which provides the underpinning for adjustmnents in
implementation. Hence, stakeholder involvement is already a feature of the preparations for this particular project. The
prospects for financial sustainability of the Park have been studied, and the results point to plausible full cost-recovery to
be achieved after the end of the project's duration. This is due to increasing numbers of visitors, higher admission fees
and income from tourist ventures. Finally, an ambitious framework for M!&E is already built into the Borrower
Implementation Plan from May 1997, to ensure that information is fed back to management in a timely manner.
As for specific biodiversity projects of relevance, the Mauritius Biodiversify Restoration Project is of interest. Its
objective are to (i) restore degraded small island habitats, eradicate alien species and propagating and reintroducing
endemic species to these habitats, and (ii) strengthen management and monitoring capacity for biodiversity restoration.
The main lessons learned from this successfully implemented project are that (a) responsibility for decision-making has
been decentralized to lie close to implementation, which has allowed the project to run ahead of schedule, (b) that NGO
involvement can be very effective, and (c) that the private sector can be positively engaged in conservation activities. In
the case of the Cape Peninsula, these lessons are built in, as the decision-making responsibility will rest with staff posted
in the Park area, NGOs will have a vital role in implementing several of the conservation activities, and the emergence of
private contractors taking on conservation work will be actively supported.
Another relevant example is the Seychelles Biodiversity Conservation and MVfarine Pollution Abatement Project. The
biodiversity component aims to restore and preserve a unique ecosystem in Aldabra, threatened by non-native species
introduced decades ago, especially feral goats. Furthernore, the aim is to protect sea turtles by defining and enforcing a
sustainable oifftake program. The main lessons from this project that have been incorporated are that: (i) a successful
project needs a policy framework as support (which South Africa has through its Biodiversity Strategy); (ii) continuity in
task management from the Bank's side is important in order to establish good personal links with counterparts and
prevent loss of institutional memory (which has been observed in clear continuity in the staffing of Bank missions and
frequent contacts with counterparts in between missions); (iii) full-time local capacity is necessary for implementation
(which is certainly the case with half a dozen full-time staff dedicated to the creation and initial management of the new
park); and (iv) that targeted training programs can be used to support implantation and motivate staff (which is already
built into the Borrower Implementation Plan).
The project will also build on knowledge, lessons learned, possible collaboration and networking with biodiversity-related
projects finance by other multi-lateral or bilateral agencies in South Africa as well as in the SADC sub-region.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 11
Country: South Africa                                                Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
TF management has been elaborated in close collaboration with WWF-SA, ENVGC, and Bank financial and procurement
expertise, and builds on the Bank's experience with eleven GEF TFs, as summarized in Mikitin (1995) Issues and
Options in the Design of GEF Supported TFs for Biodiversity Conservation. (ENV. Paper #01 1). A special Operational
Manual for TF management has been prepared and found satisfactory.
Reflecting more broadly the experience of GEF biodiversity projects, the STAP reviewer commented (May 27, 1997) that
the objectives are clear and appropriate in terms of global biodiversity significance and fit well within GEF Operational
Guidelines. The institutions involved are also well known for their competence in their respective areas of responsibility.
The marine component was found to be little developed in a previous version of the PCD, however. This has been
remedied by including substantially more information in the Project Description (block 1); extending the description in
Project Components; adding a note on legislation under Institutional Arrangements; adding information under GEF
Strategy; and extending the treatment of the component in Appendix 1. The aspect of replicability has been highlighted
in the section on Beneficiaries, and supported by a strong component for M&E and future applied studies on the
efficiency of conservation methods. The reviewer also commented on the good prospects for sustainability of the project,
and the description of the pillars for this long-term scenario has been improved in the section on institutional
arrangements.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
11. Indications of borrowe commitment and ownership:
The original project proposal originates from the South African National Parks and WWF-SA, which developed the basic
approach without any prior involvement of the Bank. Two seminars in Cape Town (January and April, 1997) have
testified to the commitment of a large group of local stakeholders, several of whom have contributed to working papers of
high quality, elaborating various aspects of the project. The idea of a National Park on the Cape Peninsula has also been
endorsed by the GEF focal point in South Africa, Dr. F. Hanekom of the Department of Environmental Affairs and
Tourism, and presented to the Bank through the Ministry of Finance. Furthermore, the commitment of local interests is
convincingly shown by the fund of almost $2 million that has already been mobilized in cash donations to the Table
Mountain Fund, and additional land donations and sales for conservation purposes with a market value of at least $6
million.
.   V     a                                   ................................................................................................................................................................... 
In spite of considerable domestic subsidies, the Park will not be able to fully sustain the immediate need for conservation
expenditures in its formative years without external support. Domestic donations, while substantial, will not be sufficient
to cover the significant and immediate needs of a conservation program on the Cape Peninsula and beyond in the CFK.
Valuable experience can be gained though this project, on the basis of which the wider perspective of conservation of the
entire Cape Floral Kingdom can be pursued, and indeed for the preservation of indigenous vegetation on a global scale.
............................I................................................ ......... ..I.................... . ......................................................................................................... ..........................................................................................
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic Assessment [    Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ N/A           [   Cost Effectiveness     [X] Other
(see Annex 4):                ERR= N/A                                          Analysis: N/A             Incremental
Cost
Analysis
Fiscal impact (for all projects):
The Cape Peninsula National Park is expected to become financially self-sustainable shortly after the project's main
implementation period, thanks to rising income from admission fees and royalties from tourism ventures. Subsidies directly
to the Park from central, provincial or local government are not expected to be needed at that time. This topic is addressed
in detail in annex 12.
14. FinancialAssessment(seeAnnex 5)            NPV=US$ N/A            FRR= N/A
See annex 12 for details.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                      Page 12
Country: South Africa                                                                       Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
TK  ~        i .x  ..........................................................................................I........................................I..........................................................................................................
15. Technical Assessment:
There is already considerable experience in South Africa of invasive alien species clearing, particularly through the nation-
wide Working for Water Program. Nevertheless, further study of the relative efficiency of mechanical clearing, chemical
treatment and biological control methods is needed, and a program for systematic evaluation of future activities is foreseen
in this project.
'T  -i~  f~  ion    " .   . "    "" .    . """ ...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
16. Institutional Assessment:
a. Executing agencies: The South African National Parks is a reputable and well-established organization. It is currently undergoing
a renewal process to meet the requirements of a new era in the nation's development. The project preparation team is confident that the
considerable experience and resources of this institution will be well utilized in the new Cape Peninsula National Park.
b. Project management: The preparation team has been continuously impressed with the personal dedication of staff and the
professional quality and timely delivery of work from the counterparts representing the project's future management. This applies both
to the National Parks staff, and to the staff of WWF-SA. The institutional plan contained in the Borrower Implementation Plan is sound.
................ .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
17. Social Assessment:
The park area is traditionally not utilized to a great extent by disadvantaged communities. Changing this implies improved
transportation for disadvantaged communities, and organized efforts to introduce the area to new target groups. Price
policies must be set in order not to bar such groups from entering, e.g. through special group rates and special initiatives to
facilitate access. The recruitment of unskilled labor to undertake clearance in the park represents an important employment
opportunity, but must be carefully designed in collaboration with local communities.
~~~~~~~~~~~.. .......................................................................................................................................... ................................ ............................................................................................ 
18. Environmental Assessment:                     Environmental Category   [ ]   A              [X]   B          [ ]    C
An environmental analysis has been undertaken by staff of the University of Cape Town, with completion in October, 1997.
The results are summarized in annex 16 to this PAD. In brief, the overall finding is that "SANP is potentially able to:
conserve biodiversity effectively, manage recreational uses of the proposed National Park adequately without degrading the
natural environment; and contribute to capacity building of previously disadvantaged communities." Furthermore, SANP is
committed to developing and implementing an Environmental Management Plan within the next year to systematically
control, manage and review its level of environmental performance. Activities supported by the Table Mountain Fund will
be appraised and monitored according to procedures contained in its Operational Manual. This provides assurances that
activities will be environmentally beneficial.
There will be no involuntary resettlement as a result of the project.
..... ...... .......................................................................................... .....................................................................................................................     .........................
19. Participatory Approach:                                   Identification/Preparation              Implementation                     Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups (in particular  IS + CON                                IS + CON + COL
disadvantaged communities)
Intermediary NGOs (about 40 different IS + CON + COL                           IS + CON + COL
environmental groups involved)
Academic institutions (The University of Cape  IS + CON                                 IS + CON
Town)
Local government (Provincial Government for the  IS + CON + COL                             IS + CON + COL
Western Cape, Cape Metropolitan Council, Cape
Town Municipality, South Peninsula Municipality)
Other donors (French and Norwegian Cooperation) IS + CON + COL                               IS + CON + COL
Local groups and NGOs consulted: An open forum meeting with about 40 NGOs was held on January 30 in Cape Town,
and another with about 10 representatives was held on May 8. Three elected NGO  representatives were also present at
workshops January 28-29 and April 28-29, when the main stakeholders met to advance the project design. The criteria for
project eligibility under the Fund were elaborated in a consultative process involving 22 participants representing 14



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         Page 13
Country: South Africa                                                    Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
different NGOs at a meeting called by WWF, and held on March 19, 1997. WWF-SA which is a major proponent of the
project, is itself an NGO. Other active NGOs include the Botanical Society of SA, Mountain Club of South Africa, Wildlife
and Environment Society of SA, Save the Mountain, SA Scout Association, guides' organizations, local environmental
awareness groups, land owners' associations, and "Friends" groups representing specific geographical areas of the Cape
Peninsula. SANP's section for Social Ecology has also carried out a survey among disadvantaged communities in urban
areas surrounding the park. This type of activity will continue during the project's implementation.
..... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
20. Sustainability:
The project has essentially been driven by domestic interests and there can be no doubt about the continued commitment
among local stakeholders. GEF will support a highly capable domestic organization led by SANP and WWF-SA. The
quality of domestic staff and their organization is impressive. Once the up-front investments in conservation activities have
been undertaken, maintenance work on the Cape Peninsula will be much less costly. For example, while the initial clearing
of a lightly infested hectare is about $90, the follow-up annual cost is about $16 per hectare. Similarly, for a dense stand,
the initial cost of clearing of about $1,200 drops to about $500 per hectare for annual follow-up and decreasing thereafter.
As most areas are only lightly infested, the annual follow-up cost would be on the level of only one fifth to a quarter of the
initial clearing investment. Plans for financial cost-recovery for the long-term have already been developed in projections
carried out by the SANP. With the increasing numbers of tourists entering the Cape Town area, prospect are good for the
Cape Peninsula area in the medium to long-run.
As for the sustainability of the NGO implemented activities and particularly CFK activities covering areas with little
potential for financial cost recovery, the Fund will have an investment strategy that ensures a long-term stable flow or
resources. This strategy provides for a mix of high growth and safe income investments with a clear restriction to maintain
capital.
..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk                     Risk Rating                      Risk Minimization Measure
(i) Alien plant removal could be insufficient   Low      Creation of a unified park management with sufficient financial resources
to stop the on-going invasion                            and monitoring capacity.
(ii) Environmental education could fail to  Low          Marketing of recreational services to multiple communities, follow-up
stimulate visitor demand and appropriate                 surveys and regulation enforcement.
behavior
(iii) Fire management could fail to contain  Low         Use of a rapid response team combined with on-the-ground stand-by
wildfires and controlled burning could face              labor. Public information in advance of controlled burning.
opposition.
(iv) Tourist infrastructure could fail to meet   Low     Improved pathways, clear signage, maps and patrolling.
the increasing visitor pressure
(v) Capacity building could fail to result in  Low       Gradual increase in decentralized responsibility among entrepreneurs
viable independent firms
(vi) The marine protection program could fail  Moderate    Broad-based public debate and consultations will precede any
to gain public and political support                     proclamation
(vii) Results of M & E and conservation     Low          Management involvement in designing M&E and the screening of study
studies might not be internalized in                     proposals. Building on SANP's excellent track record in conservation.
management
(viii) Fund management could fail to deliver    Low      An investment strategy combining growth and safe income assets



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 14
Country: South Africa                                                Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
sufficient financial resources
(ix) An agreed strategy for the CFK could fail Medium  All stakeholders will be invited to contribute and part of the ground work
to emerge                                  M          has already been carriecl out.
Project components to outputs
Risk                    Risk Rating                    Risk Minimization Measure
(i) Alien plant removal could be hampered by  Low     Efforts to ratify the results of negotiations of land transfer to the new park
disjointed management and ineffective follow-         under unified SANP management, and planning for annual follow-ups of
up                                                    clearing.
(ii) Environmental education facilities, staff   Low  Adequate staffing in project management and support from experienced
and material could be inadequate                      academics, NGOs and volunteers
(iii) Fire management could fail to respond  Low      Weather monitoring and adaptation of fire protection and burning
with flexibility to changing natural conditions       schedules and manning
(iv) Tourist infrastructure could prove   Low         Ensuring sufficient funds, training contractors and mobilizing NGO
inadequate to cope with increasing numbers of         support.
visitors.
(v) Capacity building of independent      Moderate   Negotiations with municipal labor regarding out-sourcing.
entrepreneurs could be in conflict with
municipal labor interests
(vi) The marine protection program could meet Moderate   Collaboration with current public authorities controlling MPAs and
resistance                                            marine resources user groups.
(vii) Conservation studies could produce  Low         Careful screening of proposal through experienced WWF structure and
results that are not operational                      park management.
(viii) Fund management could be ineffective   Low     Clear investment strategy and monitoring of performance.
(ix) Common strategy for the CFK could fail  Low      Broad-based consultations with all stakeholders.
to emerge
Overall project risk rating               Low         Overall project planning and implementation can rest on strong domestic
capacity and dedication
22. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The Park could be perceived as catering to the interests of a privileged elite of foreign and domestic visitors. The new park
management will make considerable efforts to enhance access of disadvantaged communities, and provide them with much
sought-after labor opportunities.
Block 4: Main Grant Conditions
23. Effectiveness Conditions: (i) that the Proclamation, establishing the Cape Peninsula National Park, incorporating the CORE
AREAS (as defined in the Grants Agreement), has been published in the Gazette, in accordance with the provisions of the National
Parks Act, and (ii) that WWF-SA has executed the Trust Deed.
24. Other: Agreement was reached during appraisal on the criteria, terms and conditions for the sub-projects to be financed by the
TMF. These are reflected in the Operational Manual for the TMF.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         Page 15.
Country: South Afifca                                                    Project The: Cape Peninsula Blodiversity Conservation ProJect
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ 3    I[The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:  . The project complies with all other
applicable Bank policies.]
Task Manager: Francois Falloux                                    Country        tor: Pamela Cox






PART II: Technical Annexes
I






Project Appraisal Document                                              Page 19
Country: South Africa                  Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1:    Project Design Summary
Annex 2:    Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:    Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:    Incremental Cost Analysis
Annex 5:    Financial Summary
Annex 6:    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7:    Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8:    Documents in the Project File
Annex 9:    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10:   Country at a Glance
Annex 11:   Map of the Cape Peninsula
Annex 12:   The Financial Perspective for the Cape Peninsula National Park
Annex 13:   Capacity Buiiding through the Training of Entrepreneurs and NGO's
Annex 14:   Rehabilitation and Restoration following Alien Vegetation Removal
Annex 15:   Strategic Plan and Investment Prograrn for the Conservation of the Marine
and Terrestrial Biodiversity of the Cape Floristic Region
Annex 16:   Environmental Analysis - Executive Summary






Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 21
Country: South Africa                                                 Project rfle: Cape Peninsula Blodiversity Conservation Project
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators'   Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   R isk s
CAS Objective (No CAS                                                                   (CAS Objective to Bank
available, but strategic focus                                                           Mission)
for Bank's work in next
twelve months utilized)
Economic growth               Tourism income to the Park   Supervision missions twice    Political stability
per year and mid-term review
year three with external panel
of experts
Poverty alleviation           Employment of labor from                                  Labor market flexibility
disadvantaged communities
Capacity building             Training of contractors                                   Entrepreneurial opportunities
GEF Operational Program       Long-term protection and
sustainable use of biodiversity
Project Development
Objectives for SANP
1. Rehabilitate and maintain  No indigenous species added    Reports from SANP, the     Exogenous political and
indigenous terrestrial flora and  to the list of rare and/or  Table Mountain Fund and   economic events will not
fauna on the Cape Peninsula    threatened species (Red Data   NGOs. Supervision visits.  deter foreign and domestic
and marine conservation in   list). No additional plant                                 visitors to come to the park.
immediately surrounding      species becoming extinct.
areas.
All invasive alien seed bearing
plants removed by year 6. All
natural areas previously
infested with invasive aliens in
maintenance phase by year 6
80% reduction of area burnt in
uncontrolled wildfires by year
6.
No infrastructural damage to
private property outside the
National Park
Implementation of an agreed
marine protection plan.
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 22
CountFy: South Africa                                                Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservafion Project
Project Outputs for SANP                                                              (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
(i) Removal of alien invasive   (i) 2500 ha/year of land  (i) SANP reports, Table     (i) There will be a unified,
plants                       cleared of initial infestation of  Mountain TF, NGO activity    efficient national park
alien invasive species,     reports and site visits.     authority implementing the
conservation program on
public land, and private land-
owners will contract in.
(ii) Enhanced environmental   (ii)Comprehensive visitor data  (ii) Visitor statistics and  (ii) Exogenous events will
awareness among visitors and   maintained at controlled  survey reports.              not significantly influence
the general public           access points (including                                 visitor rates
regular surveys).Seasonal
visitor surveys of unmanned
access points to the Park.
(iii) Controlled regeneration    (iii) At least 3% p.a. of total    (iii) SANP fire records  (iii) Weather conditions will
of natural vegetation through    vegetation requiring a regular                       not change significantly
fire                        fire regime to be subject to
controlled burning. By year 6,                          (iii) Controlled burning will
at least 20% of total                                    be accepted by surrounding
vegetation requiring a regular                           communities.
fire regime to be subject to a
controlled burning program.
(iv) Well maintained and     (iv) Increased visitor use of    (iv) Visitor surveys.   (iv) Changes in visitor rates
sign-posted tourist          trails and gateways.                                     and composition will not
infrastructure                                                                        overwhelm the park.
(v) The emergence of         (v) Share of conservation    (v) SANP contract records.   (v) Conservation work will
entrepreneurs from           work cost out-sourced to                                 be an attractive option in the
disadvantaged groups capable  entrepreneurs from the                                  private market for trained
of undertaking conservation  program reaching at least 50%                            entrepreneurs.
work                         by year 3 and remaining above
this for the rest of the
program.
(vi) Determine the feasibility   (vi) The proclamation of a  (vi) Public observance of  (vi) Major pollution events
of establishing a marine     marine national park        regulations.                 will not threaten marine life.
component to the National    surrounding the Cape
Park                         Peninsula, if feasible, by year
5.
(vii) Enhanced knowledge    (vii) M&E, EIS and study     (vii) Study reports and      (vii) Management will have
about rational management of  results utilized by park   records of management        the resources to act on study
flora and fauna on and around   management                decisions                   proposals.
the Peninsula
Project Components for                                                                (Components to Outputs)
SANP
(i) Employment of contract    (i) Annual reports from the    (i) Agreement is reached on
(i) Invasive alien species   labor reaching at least 400  Park authority, the Table   establishing unified SANP
eradication                  new jobs created by year     Mountain Fund and NGOs.    management control over the
three.                       Supervisory consultations   park area.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 23
Country: South Africa                                                Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity ConsevatIon Project
with NGOs and labor engaged
in the conservation efforts.
(ii) Environmental education   (ii) Development of 30    (ii) As above plus beneficiary
customized resource programs  evaluations.
for target audiences in
adjacent communities by year
3
(iii) Enhanced fire          (iii) Engagement of stand-by   (iii) SANP and contractors'
management                   fire fighting personnel.     fire records
(iv) Improved tourist        (iv) Contracting of labor    (iv) SANP annual reports and  (iv) As for activities i & ii.
infrastructure               sufficient to undertake      on-site visits
improvement works
(v) Capacity building among    (v) Training of independent    (v) SANP records and    (v) No intervening labor
contract labor               contractors for alien clearing,  interviews with entrepreneurs  disputes.
recruited from adjacent
disadvantaged communities;
30 in year 1, 20 in years 2 and
3
(vi) Marine protection       (vi) Delineation and sign-   (vi) Legal documents. Public  (vi) Consensus on the
program                      posting of park, if feasible,  announcements.            desirability and boundaries of
achieved by year six.                                    a marine national park.
(vii) Knowledge management  (vii) Contracted suppliers of    (vii) M&E reports, EIS   (vii) Sufficient interest
M&E system and consolidated  outputs, study proposals,   among academics and NGOs,
EIS within one year. At least 8  decision records and study  and funding from the TF.
adaptive research programs,   reports.
focusing on project priorities,
initiated by year two.
Project Development
Objectives for WWF
1. Rehabilitate and maintain                             Reports from SANP, the
indigenous terrestrial flora and                          Table Mountain Fund and
fauna on the Cape Peninsula                              NGOs. Supervision visits.
and marine conservation in
immediately surrounding
areas.
2. Development of a          Agreed strategic and
conservation strategy for the    investment program for the
much larger Cape Floral      CFK
Kingdom, of which the Cape
Peninsula forms a part.
Project Outputs for WWF
(i) Removal of alien invasive                             (i) SANP reports, Table
plants                                                    Mountain Fund/NGO activity
reports and site visits.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 24
Country: South Africa                                                Project ritle: Cape Peninsula Blodiversity Conservation Prject
(ii) Enhanced environmental
awareness among visitors and
the general public
(iii) Enhanced knowledge     (iii) M&E, EIS and study    (iii) Study reports and      (iii) Management will have
about rational management of  results utilized by park   records of management        the resources to act on study
flora and fauna on and around   management                decisions                   proposals
the Peninsula
(iv) Long-term financial     (iv) Real rate of net returns    (iv) Financial management    (iv) Successful investment of
revenue stream that can      from the Trust Fund at least    report and comparative   the Trust Fund capital
support sustainable          7.5% on average              financial retum data from
conservation activities                                   financial press
(v) Political approval and   (v) Presentation of a strategic  (v) Public strategic plan,  (v) External political events
funding of a strategic       plan and investment program    records of approval and   will not interfere with the
conservation plan.          for the CFK                  funding agreements.          finalization and
implementation of the plan
Project Components for                                                                (Components to Outputs)
WWF
(i) Invasive alien species   (i) At least 5 NGOs (including  (i) Annual reports from the
eradication                  volunteer alien clearing     Park authority, the Table
partnerships) involved by year  Mountain Fund and NGOs.    (i & ii) Sustained NGO
two and onwards.            Supervisory consultations    support for conservation
with NGOs and labor engaged  activities. NGOs will
in the conservation efforts.    compete in a non-contentious
manner for contract funding.
(ii) Environmental education   (ii) Development of 30    (ii) As above plus beneficiary
customized resource programns  evaluations.
for target audiences in
adjacent communities by year
3
(iii) Knowledge management                                (iii) M&E reports, EIS      (iii) Sufficient interest among
outputs, study proposals,   academics and NGOs, and
decision records and study  funding from the TF.
reports.
(iv) Trust Fund management   (iv) Selection of financial  (iv) Annual audits
manager before grant
effectiveness.
(v) Cape Floral Kingdom      (v) Agreed strategic plan and   (v) Strategy document.   (v) Consensus emerges on
strategy development         investment program for the   Meetings with main          priorities and funding
CFK identifying priority    stakeholders during          requirements.
conservation areas and      supervision.
financing completed by the
end of year 2 after
effectiveness.



Project Appraisal Document                                                Page 25
Country: South Africa                   Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Main Component 1 - $76.4 million (total project cost, of which $7.0 million is incremental)
Cape Peninsula National Park. This component entails the creation and initial management of a
new national park covering some 300 km2 on the Cape Peninsula in order to protect its unique
biodiversity. In addition to the core costs of park staff and basic capital investment, this
component contains several separate activities to which GEF contributions are requested, as
described below:
(i) Invasive alien plant control program. Alien plants currently pose the most severe
threat for the continued existence of fynbos ecosystems in conserved areas. Consequently, this is
also the area that is designated to receive the most funding of all conservation activities. An
integrated approach, involving a combination of biological, mechanical and chemical control,
applied with a cognizance of socio-economic issues, will reduce the deleterious effects of alien
plants on the Cape Peninsula. This approach is based on: (a) about 20 year research carried out
by the University of Cape Town; and (b) acquired experience and lessons learned during the past
several years under the Working for Water Program as well as through NGO-implemented
conservation activities. The objective of the six year program is to remove the entire initial
infestation of woody, seed-bearing alien invasive plants from the Park. As explained in Annex
14, regeneration of the natural vegetation then occurs naturally, provided maintenance is
effective. The total cost of this sub-component is $11.3 million over six years, of which the
incremental cost is about $4.5 million.
After this labor-intensive program, providing up to about 500 employment opportunities per
annum, has been completed, the Park will be in a maintenance phase; invasive species will
otherwise regenerate and spread again. Maintenance of cleared areas will be initiated from year
three. All cleared areas will be followed up every two years. Different methods will be tested.
Some of the activities under the NGO-implemented component (see Main Component 2) also
belongs under this heading. The availability of Fund resources for such activities has several
advantages. First, NGOs can operate on all private land whereas SANP is confined to public land
or private land contracted in to the National Park. Second, NGOs can pursue activities also
outside of the Peninsula, and begin to address the needs of the entire Cape Floral Kingdom.
Third, by channeling resources through NGOs, and allowing NGOs to participate in the decision-
making about resource allocations, a contribution is given to empowerment of such groups.
Finally, the NGOs represent excellent linkages to disadvantaged communities, which can take
advantage of increasing labor opportunities and associated training. It is not possible at this stage
to give an estimate of the amount of money NGOs will spend on this activity, as the choice to
pursue alternative actions is still open.
(ii) Environmental education. Special centers within the park would be upgraded in the
GEF alternative, to better cater to the growing stream of tourists, as well as to target
disadvantaged communities to participate on-site. There would also be outreach activities in
surrounding communities. This is essential to change the current perception of the park as an



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 26
Country: South Africa                    Project Title: Cape lPeninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
area of "exclusion" to one of providing valuable services. The total cost is about $1.5 million of
which the incremental cost is about $0.5 million.
(iii) Fire control and management. The Cape flora has evolved with fire and many
species require fire to propagate. The role of fire in the maintenance or reduction of biodiversity
in the fynbos is well documented. At the same time, fire can cause considerable damage to
people and property adjoining natural and semi-natural areas. Fire thus poses a major dilemma
for management of the Cape Peninsula in balancing policies callling for protection of various
components of the natural environment on the one hand, and thie need to protect people and
property on the other. The recent introduction of a contracted helicopter on standby during the
fire season, for the northern part of the Cape Peninsula, has proven to be extremely cost-efficient
for both controlled burning programs and wildfire control. The southern part of the Cape
Peninsula however has inadequate fire protection and managemrent. The contracting of a second
helicopter on standby, in combination with standby labor groups, would maintain and enhance
the fire control and management capacity in the Park. The total cost for the sub-component is
$3.8 million, of which the incremental cost is about $0.3 million.
(iv) Improved tourist infrastructure. The park, because of it's topography, urban nature
and historically entrenched "right of free access" is, in part, an open system. A large number of
informnal and formal access points exist, most of which do not provide adequate information. It is
considered that damage to the natural areas can often be attribulted to ignorance. The creation of
safe gateways to the Park, where educational/informational signage and interactive materials can
be provided has long been required. Major gateways provide substantial eco-tourism benefits and
consequently offer commercial opportunities. Minor gateways however will need to be
constructed and infrastructure provided by Park management, with no financial returns.
Furthermore, inappropriate, poorly aligned and inadequately constructed footpaths and roads and
natural areas burnt too frequently are the primary causes of severe erosion problems on the Cape
Peninsula. A number of critical areas have been clearly identified for a rehabilitation program.
Footpath maintenance will be of particular significance, and will serve to focus environmental
pressure to the areas best suited. The total cost is $4.4 million, of which the incremental cost is
about $0.7 million.
(v) Capacity building. It is the intention to provide entrepreneurial training for
promising contract laborers. This will build capacity among a corps of independent contractors
who can later take on alien species clearing, footpath maintenance and other park-related tasks on
a competitive basis. The total cost is $2.0 million, of which the incremental cost is about $0.2
million.
(vi) Marine Protection Program. Activities would include a study of the feasibility of
incorporating the marine environment of the Cape Peninsula into the proposed National Park.
This activity will concern the identification of appropriate boundaries and legal requirements.
The proposed establishment of the marine park will require considerable public relations and
media liaison in order to ensure that the general public are fully aware of the reason and need for
the Park, and to be in a position to fully participate in the process. The long-term objectives of
this component would be to maintain biodiversity and functional marine ecosystems by halting
and reversing threats such as over exploitation of rock lobster, abalone, alikreukel and certain line
fish species, and combat pollution via nutrient loading, sewage, industrial effluents, oil spills, and
stornwater. Without GEF support, it would be unlikely that the Peninsula's marine environment
would be incorporated into the terrestrial national park within the first five years of its



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 27
Country: South Africa                    Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
establishment, given the high cost and complexity of its operation and development. The total
cost is $0.7 million, of which the incremental cost is about $0.3 million.
Existing and proposed Environmental Education Centers and outreach programs will be
provided with the capacity to include marine education components into their programs prior to
the establishment of the marine park. A set of marine park regulations will be prepared for
promulgation simultaneously with the Park's proclamation. The Marine Park's proclamation will
be undertaken and funded by the South African National Parks. Finally, four specific
research/monitoring activities have been identified; research into the social needs of communities
that have an economic relationship with the marine environment; baseline data collection;
monitoring programs; and applied marine research.
(vii) Knowledge Management. Evaluating the project and drawing lessons that can be of
global use will require a carefully crafted M&E system, and extensive data gathering and
analysis. The existing Environmental Information System (EIS) will be upgraded and
consolidated. A focus for the studies is the resolution of management-derived questions. Park
management have identified a number of key research issues which need to be addressed. These
include: identification of legal mechanisms for securing conservation control of land; analysis of
visitor use patterns; impacts of management actions on surface hydrology; cost-benefit analysis
of alien plant control methods; restoration of transformed habitats; identification of new bio-
control agents; and a feasibility study for control of Himalayan Tahrs. There will also be studies
on land use planning in the urban interface. The incremental cost for all these component is about
$1.6 million, of which $0.8 million is incremental.
Main Component 2: Table Mountain Fund (TMF)- $7 million capital ($5 million are
incremental GEF financing) and associated land donations/purchases for an estimated market
value of at least $6 million. The TMF will provide income in perpetuity to support the NGO-
managed community conservation program with two objectives: the first will be the conservation
of the biological diversity of the Cape Peninsula and its adjacent marine systems which are of
global significance. The second objective will be to expand conservation efforts to the broader
Cape Floral Kingdom, which was the highest recorded species diversity for any comparable
sized temperate or tropical region in the world. These two objectives are mutually reinforcing as
experience acquired and lessons learned in the Cape Peninsula are expected to benefit the broader
CFK and vice versa.
The community conservation program will particularly include the following activities: (a) alien
plant eradication outside the National Park with a special attention to community-owned and
private land, having a strategic biodiversity value in terms of rare species, special habitat and
geographic location in relation to existing protected areas; (b) promotion of conservation
activities in rural and urban communities by for example facilitating the expansion of
conservation farming with full maintenance of natural biodiversity; (c) environmental education
and associated production of didactic materials targeted to rural and urban dwellers with a focus
on disadvantaged communities; (d) conservation studies for expanding existing reserves or
dealing with unforeseen emerging conservation problems; and (e) knowledge dissemination
particularly related to lessons learned and best practices.
This component has been designed to build synergy with the establishment of the National park;
and to ensure that conservation need, particularly at the community level will be met sustainably
on the Cape Peninsula and broader CFK after the phase-out of this six-year project. Furthermore,



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 28
Country: South Africa                       Project Title: Capei Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
it has the advantage of empowering the environmental NGO-community to influence decisions
about resource allocation for conservation, and to openly comipete in finding efficient ways of
furthering the interests of biodiversity protection. Such NGOs already have an impressive track
record of participatory implementation of conservation programs on the Cape Peninsula.
Main Component 3: Strategic Planningfor the CFK (US$ 1.1 million total cost of component,
all incremental). This activity is deigned to take place in the first two years of the project. The
aim is to design a comprehensive strategic conservation program that can attract its own funding.
This process will identify the main stakeholders and ensure their participation, identify specific
"champions" for tasks to be done, identify information gaps, prioritize and commission
conservation planning work to close these gaps, develop a strategic action plan and explore
funding possibilities for the future. Priority conservation areas in the Agulhas Plain, De Hoop
and the West Coast Biosphere Reserve have already been identified. This strategic planning for
the CFK is further described in Annex 15.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 29
Country: South Africa                                         Project Tie: Cape Peninsula Blodiversity Conservation Project
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                                Local           Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million-------------------
National Park
Staff, overhead & loan servicing       26.6              1.4       27.9
Capital investnent           7.6             0.4         8.0
Terrestrial conservation
Alien species program           6.5             2.8         9.3
Fire management             2.5             0.6         3.1
Environmental education           1.1              0.1        1.2
Paths & gateways            3.3              0.2        3.5
Road maintenance             3.0             0.2         3.1
Capacity building           1.6             0.1         1.7
Boulder maintenance            3.3             0.2         3.5
Knowledge management              0.9             0.2         1.1
Marine conservation           0.5              0.1        0.6
Table Mountain TF            12.4             0.7       13.0
CFK strategy            0.8              0.1        0.9
Total Baseline Cost          70.2              6.9       77.1
Physical Contingencies           7.0             0.8         7.8
Price Contingencies           5.6             0.6         6.3
Total Project Cost          82.8              8.4       91.2
Note: Some figures do not add up due to rounding



Project Appraisal Document                                                Page 30
Country: South Africa                   Project Title: Cape Peninsula Blodiverity Conservaton Project
Annex 4
Incremental Cost Analysis
1. Baseline Scenario
A realistic baseline scenario for the Cape Peninsula must be seen against the particular
socio-economic background of the country. The Green Paper Towards an Environmental
Policyfor South Africa states as its first objective: "To effect planned and measurable
shifts in budgetary and resource allocations for environment to achieve the goal of
people-driven, sustainable resource management and the redress of past inequalities."
The clear implication from a biodiversity point of view, is that RSA will urgently need to
address issues of social services and infrastructure targeted to improve the quality of life
for disadvantaged communities. Funding for conservation purposes must realistically be
expected to decline.
The richness of the Cape Peninsula's biodiversity is already seriously threatened, however.
On an area basis, more taxa are threatened in the Cape Peninsula than in any other region in
the world. Amongst plants, 175 species are classified as red data taxa, whilst 362 taxa are
considered threatened. Invasive alien plants, mostly Acacias and Pines, pose the most
severe threat to the biodiversity of the Cape Peninsula. In fynbos where effects of invasion
have been most severe, increasingly dense stands of alien plants suppress populations of
indigenous species, and threaten their continued existence. As vegetation structure is
altered, the functioning of natural systems is disrupted in many ways, including reduced
stream flow and altered fire behavior. Because woody alien plants burn very intensely, the
hydrological properties of soils are altered, occasionally contributing to flooding and
erosion. Other significant threats to the biodiversity of the Cape Peninsula include:
encroaching residential and industrial development; increased and uncontrolled use of the
area for recreation; and over exploitation of resources, including marine species. Urban
growth and related pollution of water bodies also threaten in the longer run to deplete the
Cape Peninsula's marine biodiversity.
In a realistic baseline scenario, the new park will be created and would have resources of
more than $50 million for capital and operational expenditure over a six-year period. In
addition, terrestrial conservation activities would have close to $18 million over the same
period to cover the costs of some alien species clearing, fire management and
environmental education. While these resources are substantial, and represent a strong
national commitment in the face of other pressing needs, they would be insufficient to
stop and overturn the wave of invasive species that threaten the long-term survival of the
indigenous vegetation. Furthermore, state funds could only be used within the National
Park and not on private land (unless it has been contracted in to the National Park) that
would be sources of further infestation, primarily of acacia and pine trees. Activities in
the broader CFK would not be eligible for funding under the baseline alternative.



Project Appraisal Document                                             Page 31
Country: South Africa                 Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
To be specific, an alien vegetation model accounting for both clearing and follow-up of
stands classified according to density in three classes has been run to check the baseline
scenario versus the GEF alternative. This scenario is based on the following
assumptions: (i) $6.8 million would be available; (ii) municipal labor will be used at
prevailing wage rates and productivity levels; and (iii) the break-down of working areas
(light, medium dense canopy cover) would be proportional to their shares of the original
infestation. Under this baseline scenario, it would be possible to contain the further
spread of alien vegetation and make limited inroads into previous infestation. Most of the
infested areas would remain at the end of the project period, however. This would form a
core area that would continue to invade surrounding areas, and perpetuate the high cost of
containment.
Marine conservation (in the order of $0.4 million over six years) in areas surrounding the
Peninsula would be confined to assist in the protection of a few commercially
overexploited species, but would not allow effective enforcement of all the existing
Marine Park Areas, nor strategic planning for an extended park and public information
about the value of the marine ecosystems.
The baseline alternative would see some NGO-implemented conservation activities on
the basis of the existing Table Mountain Fund. Available capital is expected to be in the
order of $2 million, providing about $100,000 in net returns after financial management
and administrative fees. This would fund some NGO-implemented activities in clearing
invasive alien species, environmental education and studies, but would not match the
need for conservation activities to protect biodiversity on the Cape Peninsula, and the
capacity for implementation of a large, growing and well-motivated community of
environmental NGOs.
Finally, there would be no resources at all in the baseline alternative to extend strategic
biodiversity conservation planning to the entire Cape Floral Kingdom.
2. Global Environmental Objectives
The objectives of GEF assistance would be to:
(i) Roll back the threat of invasive alien species to allow the natural regeneration
of indigenous species, protect the area from raging wildfires and recreate nature's own
renewal process, extend the realm of effective conservation to surrounding marine areas,
upgrade the capacity to provide environmental education, improve roads and paths to
minimize erosion and enhance accessibility, upgrade the monitoring and study of
biodiversity in this unique area. Assistance to a substantial investment program in the
next six years will allow cost-effective action, as the cost of rehabilitation of the
indigenous vegetation grows quickly over the years. Hence, delaying action now means
higher cost in the future, and perhaps irreversible loss of some species. This component
would be managed by the South African National Parks (SANP).



Project Appraisal Document                                            Page 32
Country: South Africa                Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
(ii) Ensure the maintenance in perpetuity of biodiversity conservation on the Cape
Peninsula and beyond in the Cape Floral Kingdom, extending the reach of conservation
activities to private land outside the National Park, and using NGOs as implementing
agencies and decision-makers. This component would be funded by the Table Mountain
Fund (TMF), lead by a Board of Trustees, representing the three founders: SANP, WWF-
SA and the advisory and broadly recruited Cape Peninsula National Park Committee..
(iii) Lay the strategicfoundationfor effective conservation of the Cape Floral
Kingdom. This work would be supported through the SANP, but would involve many
other stakeholders in a broad, consultative process.
3. GEF Alternative
While the SANP and the TMF are two separate institutional vehicles, the major
substantive elements of both programs would be similar: invasive alien vegetation
removal, environmental education activities, rehabilitation and construction of footpaths
that would reduce the currently disbursed environmental pressure, and environmental
studies in support of better environmental management. The main activities are described
in annex 2 of the PAD.
By financing the incremental cost of these activities for addressing global and regional
biodiversity conservation priorities, GEF fimding will complement substantial domestic
resources channeled through the SANP, provincial and local government subsidies,
contributions from visitors to the park, as well as domestic donations. Additional foreign
co-financing is also expected as a result. GEF participation in the project has the
potential to ensure the integrity of globally significant lbiodiversity assets
4. Incremental Costs
The matrix below summarizes the baseline and incremenital expenditure during the six
year project period. The total requested GEF funding to $12.3 million. Out of this total,
$6.3 million would strengthen biodiversity conservation in the new Cape Peninsula park
and adjacent marine areas, $5 million represent the capital addition to the Table Mountain
Fund, and $1 million would go towards conservation planning for the Cape Floral
Kingdom.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 33
Country: South Africa                   Project Title: Cape Peninsula Blodiversit Conservation Project
Incremental Cost Matrix
Component           Cost           US$ million   Domestic           Global Benefit
Category                     Benefit
Park                Baseline       43.7           Maintenance of a
management                                        tourist attraction,
(operational and                                  generation
capital                                           revenue and
expenditure)                                      employment
GEF            43.7          As above           As above.
alternative
Increment       0
Terrestrial         Baseline       25.7           Enhanced visitor  Partial
conservation                                      attraction, fire  conservation of
activities (alien                                 protection and    globally
species clearance,                                employment,       significant
fire management,                                 increased          biodiversity
environmental                                     awareness
education, tourism
infrastructure,
capacity building,
knowledge
management)
GEF            32.7           Employment        Rapid
alternative                   opportunities,    rehabilitation
enhanced fire     and
protection and    maintenance of
increased         globally
awareness         significant
flora,
prevention of
further species
loss
Increment      7.0
Marine              Baseline       0.4            Very limited
conservation                                      protection of
activities                                        single species
subject to over-
exploitation



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 34
Country: South Africa                  Project rdle: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservaion Project
GEF           0.7           Much enhanced   Much
alternative                 protection of     enhanced
commercial       protection of a
species, but some  species-rich
irmmediate loss    marine
of income        ecosystem
Increment      0.3
NGO-               Baseline       8.0           Employment        Limited
implemented                                     among             protection of
conservation                                    disadvantaged     globally
activities funded                               groups,           significant
by the TMF                                      enhancement of   flora
landscape, NGO
_ repowerment
GEF            13.0         As above, but on  Protection of
alternative                  a much larger    indigenous
scale            biodiversity
also on private
land and in the
CFK outside
the Cape
Peninsula
Increment      5.0
CFK Strategy       Baseline       0.0           =
GEF            1.1           Limited visitor    Definition of a
Alternative                 interests         strategy to
potentially      conserve the
l___________  protected         CFK
Increment      1.1
Total              Baseline       77.8          =
GEF
alternative   91.2
Total
Increment      13.4
Of which co-
financed       1.1
GEF
contribution   12.3           _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         Page 35
Country: South Africa                                                     Project Tite: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Annex 5
Financial Summary
Years Ending
$million
Implementation Period                          Post-project period
1998       1999       2000        2001       2002        2003       2004        2005
Projects Costs
Investment Costs                  16.5        1.9         1.4        0.9         0.9        1.1         0.5        0.0
Recurrent Costs                    8.5       11.3        11.6       12.3        13.3       11.5        10.5       11.0
Total                    24.9       13.2        13.0       13.3        14.2       12.6        11.0       11.0
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
GEF                               12          22         10           1          2           2          0           0
Co-financiers                       1          1          1           1          1           1          0           0
Local Government                  10          18         18          17         15           0          0           0
Admission Fees                    12          41         51          59         61          74         79          80
SANP (central)                     2           4          0           0          0           0          0           0
TF investment GEF                 22           0          0           0          0           0          0           0
TF investment domestic            35           0          0           0          0           0          0           0
Tourist ventures (royalty)         6          15         19          21         20          22         21          20
Total                     100        100        100         100        100         100         100        100
Note: GEF will support SANP during a six-year implementation period. Thereafter the Table Mountain Fund will
continue to generate returns in perpetuity, but investment proceeds have not been considered in the table above (only the
one-time contribution to the TF) All figures do not add up due to rounding.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 36
Country: South Africa                                 Project Tite: Cape Peninsula Bbodiersity Conservaton Project
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A: Project Costs by Procuremernt Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                         Procurement Method                    Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB          Other       N.B.F
1. Works
Roads (1)                                                           3.8          3.8
Office rehabilitation (1)                                           1.3          1.3
Foot paths & gateways (l)                                           4*7          4.7
Boulder investment (1)                                              1.3          1.3
Plant eradication (2)                                  3.2          6.6          9.9
Fire management (2)                                    0.2          3.6          3.8
Path maintenance (2)                                   0.6          3.8          4.3
2. Goods
Vehicles                                                            0.8          0.8
Radio equipment                                                     1.6          1.6
Herbicides (3)                0.7                                   0.7          1.4
3. Consultant Services (4)
M & E + EIS                                            0.5          0.8          1.3
Marine studies                                         0.3          0.4          0.7
Terrestrial studies                                    0.3                       0.3
CFK strategy                                            1.0         0.1          1.1
4. Miscellaneous
Trust Fund (5)                                         5.0          8.0          13.0
E:nvironmental education (6)                           0.5          1.0          1.5
Capacity building (6)                                               2.1          2.1
Boulder maintenance                                                 4.3          4.3
Overhead, staff, loan servicing                                     34.0         34.0
Total
0.7         0.0          11.6        78.8         91.2
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-fnanced. All items under ICB ($0.7 m.) and other ($11.6 m.) are financed
entirely by GEF.
Notes:
(1) These items will be financed by SANP, according to national procurement procedures which have been
reviewed and considered fully satisfactory by Bank procurement staff.
(2) Labor-intensive works related to these items will be contracted among disadvantaged communities,
initially through individual contract by SANP (force account) in consultation with community leaders, as it is
currently done. It is expected that micro-enterprises will emerge with performance under close monitoring.
This would allow a progressive transition to local competition.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 37
Country: South Africa                                  Project Tdle: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
(3) Herbicides will be procured under ICB according to three 2-year contacts. Special conditions including
specifications, packaging and their disposal will be reviewed carefully before inviting bids.
(4) Consultant services will be procured according to Bank guidelines (QCBS) with the exception of two
studies (terrestrial and marine biodiversity) under the preparation of the CFK strategy. These studies, which
will be managed by WWF-SA (an independent NGO selected in accordance with clauses 3.9 and 3.14 of the
Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants) will be contracted with the University of
Cape Town, because of its unique expertise in this domain.
(5) TF overall management will be the responsibility of WWF-SA which will contract a financial management
firm. The selection of this firm has been carried out according to Bank guidelines (QCBS). Services from
NGOs will be financed out of TF income. Selection procedures are described in a detailed Operational
Manual which has been prepared by WWF-SA, reviewed by Bank staff and found fully satisfactory.
(6) These activities will be carried out directly by SANP as part of the educational program. Other activities
of this nature will be managed by NGOs, and funded through TF income.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 38
Counry: South Africa                                    Project Title: Cape Peninsula Blodiversity Conservation Project
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure            Contract Value           Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)                Method                Prior Review
1. Works
Plant eradication       <$20,000                 Force account (up to
Fire management                                  $million in total); initially
Path maintenance                                local recruittnent from
disadvantaged
communities, moving
toward competition (three
quotes).
2. Goods
Herbicides              >$200,000                ICB                     >$200,000
3. Services
M & E + EIS             >$100,000                QCBS                    >$100,000 (firm)
Marine studies          >$100,000                QCBS                    >$50,000 (indiv.)(l)
Terrestrial studies     >$100,000                QCBS                    as above
CFK strategy            >$100,000                QCBS/sole source (2)    as above
4. Miscellaneous
Trust Fund financial                             QCBS                    All
mngmt.
Total
Notes:
(1) Individuals may be hired under contracts of <$100,000.
(2) The marine and terrestrial biodiversity studies ($330,000 out of a total of $1.1 million) under the CFK
strategy program will be sole sourced, as only a single qualified consultant (University of Cape Town) has been
identified, on the basis of unique qualifications in this particular field. Remaining contracts will be awarded
under the procedures of QCBS. CFK strategy-related contracts will be awarded through WWF-SA, an NGO,
in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 39
Country: South Africa                                                Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in US$ million   Financing Percentage
1. Table Mountain Fund capital (WWF-SA)                  5.0           100%
2. Works (SANP)                                          4.0           100%
3. Goods (SANP)                                          0.7           100%
4. Consultant services WWF-SA       1                    2.1           100%
SANP           1.1
4. Operating costs                                       0.5           100%
Total          12.3          100%
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Required for contracts of less than:
Limit                     Item
$250,000              Goods, equipment
$100,000              Consulting firms
$ 50,000              Individual consultants
Special account:
A special account will be established by SANP as per the GEF Grant Agreement with SANP. As for the grant being
channeled through WWF-SA, a one-time transfer will be made for the $5 million GEF contribution to the Table Mountain
Fund while the disbursement for consultant services related to the CFK Strategic Action Plan will be made on the basis of
contractual agreements.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 40
Country: South Afiica                                                 Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                             Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
273                    273
B. Project Schedule                                    Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                6
First Bank mission (identification)                  01/24/1997              01/24/1997
Appraisal mission departure                          09/22/1997              09/22/1997
Negotiations                                          12/01/1997              12/10/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                        04/15/1998                 /_/19=
Prepared by: South African National Parks
Preparation assistance: A Project Development Facility Grant of $85,000 has been awarded by GEF
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Francois Falloux (Leacl Specialist for the Environment and
Team Leader); Jan Bojo (Sr. Environmental Economist, incremental cost analysis and GEF processing);
Elizabeth Adu (Principal Counsel), Agi Kiss (Sr. Ecologist, biodiversity); Cyprian Fisiy (Social Scientist,
sociological aspects); Eric Guichard (Consultant, financial management), Caroline Lefevre (Task
Assistant).



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 41
Country: South Africa                 Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Borrower Implementation Plan (September, 1997)
Table Mountain Fund: Operational Manual (October, 1997)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Identification Mission Report (February, 1997)
Pre-appraisal Mission Report and aide-memoire (May, 1997)
Appraisal Mission Report and aide-memoire (October, 1997)
C. Other
Working papers presented to stakeholder workshops in Cape Town in January , April and
September 1997
STAP Reviewer comments (May, 1997)
Minutes of draft PCD review meeting (June, 1997)
Minutes of Decision Meeting (September, 1997)
Trust Deed for the Table Mountain Fund
Minutes of Negotiations
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                         Page 42
Country: South Afria                                                                                                                Project Tile: Cape Peninsula Blodiversity Conservatin Project
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
South Africa - Bank Group Fact Sheet FY 1995-2001
IBRD/IDA Lending Program, FY 1995-2001
Data as of 7/28/97
Category                                Past                    Current                 Planned'
FY95           FY96         FY97         FY98         FY99        FY00        FY01
Commitments (US$m)                 0.0            0.0         46.0          0.0        400.0        50.0
Sector (%)b
Multisector                        0.0            0.0         100.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
Populatn, filth & Nutn             0.0            0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0        100.0
Urban Developmnent                 0.0            0.0          0.0          0.0         100.0        0.0
TOTAL                   100.0          100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0       100.0        100.0
Lending instrument (/)
Adjustment loans'
Specific Investment           0.0            0.0         100.0         0.0         100.0       100.0
loans and others
TOTAL                   100.0          100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0
Disbursemnents (US$m)
Adjustment loans'
Specific investment           0.0            0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0
loans and others
Repayments (UJS$m)                 0.0            0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0
hnterest (US$m)
a. Ranges at reflect the base-case (i.e. most likely) scenario. For IDA countries, planned commitments are not presented by FY but as a three-year-total range; the figures are shown in brackets.
A footnote indicates if the pattern of IDA lending has unusual characteristics (e.g. a high degree of frontloading, backloading or lumpiness). For blend countries, planned IBRD and IDA comnitments are presented for
each year as a combined total.
b. For fiutre leding, rounded to nearest 0 or 5Xe. To convey the thrust of country standegy more clearly, staff may aggregate sectors.
c. Stnuctr adjutment loans, sector adjustment loans, and debt service reduction loans.
Note: Disburement data is update at the end of the first week of the month



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                               Page 43
Country: South AfrIca                                                                                                        Project Tihe: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Consewvatin Prject
Status of Bank Group Operations in South Africa
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Data as of 7/28/97
Origial Amount in US$ millions                   Difference              Last ARPP
between            Supervision Ratingb
expected
Project ID     Loan or    Fiscal    Borrower         Purpose      IBRD      IDA    Cancellations   Undisbursed    and actual    Development   Implementation
Credit No    Year                                                                                  disbursement'   Objectives         Progress
Number of Closed Loans/Credits: 11
Active
Loans
ZA-PE-        L41730       1997   Govemernent  Ind.compet&    46.00                                   46.00
48606                                            Job creation
TOTAL                                                            46.00    0.00         0.00           46.00          0.00
Active Loans             Closed Loans                  Total
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)           0.00                    241.80                    241.80
Of which repaid                  0.00                     241.80                    241.80
Total now held by IBRD and              46.00                      0.00                     46.00
IDA
Amount sold                              0.00                     162.56                    162.56
Of which repaid                  0.00                     162.56                    162.56
Total undisbursed                       46.00                      0.00                     46.00
a. hitended disbursments to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Porafolio Perfonnance (ARPP), a leter-based system was introduced (HS=highly satisfactory S=satisactory, U=unsatisfatory, HU=highly unsatisfactoy),
see Proposed Improvements in Project and Porfolio Perfonnance Rating Methodology (Sech 194-901), August 23, 1994
Note: Disburwsemnt data is updated at the end of the first week of the month



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                   Page 44
Country: South Africa                                                                                               Project Ttbe: Cape Peninsula Biodiverslty Conservaton ProJect
South Africa - IFC and MIGA Program, FY95-97
Past                                    Current
Category                 FY95                 FY96               FY97                 FY98
IFC spprovals (USSm)               35.3                 10.6                                    0.0
Sector (-/%)
Cement & Construction              0.0                  1.0                0.0
Financial Services                 1.0                  1.0                0.0
(blank)                            0.0                  0.0                0.0
TOTAL                     1.0                  2.0                0.0                  0.0
Investment instrument (%/6)
Loans                          0.0                 34.0                0.0                  0.0
Equity                         90.0                33.0                0.0                  0.0
Quasy-equity*                  10.0                33.0                0.0                  0.0
Other                          0.0                  0.0                0.0                  0.0
TOT AT                                        inn1a               a00.  w.O
AVFV.U             U.                   U.U
MIGA guarantees (USSm)             8.0                 20.0               20.0                  0.0
MIGA commitments                   0.0                  0.0                0.0                  0.0
(US$m)
* Includes quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instnuuents



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                             Page 45
Country: South Africa                                                                 Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Annex 10
South Africa at a Glance                                                     8126197
Sub- Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                South  Saharan  middle-
Africa    Africa  income     Development diamond-
Population mid-1996 (millions)                      42.4      600      479
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                          3,140      490    4,540                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (bilbions US$)                            133.1      294    2,173
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%A)                                      2.2       2.7     1.5      GNP                            Gross
Labor force ('A)                                     2.4       2.6     1.8      per                /         primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                         capita                     enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)               51        31       73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     64        52       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             50        92       35               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of populaion)                 ..       47       86
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                  18        43       13         -     South Aftica
Gross primary enrollment (% of schooPage population)  117      72      107                Upper-rniddle4ncome group
Male                                              119        78
Female                                            115        65        ..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996    1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                         36.0    55.2    133.9   126.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP              31.7    19.9       18.6    17.5             Openness ofeconomy
Exports of goods and services/GDP          28.1    32.2       24.8    26.5
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 29.2    29.0       18.7    18.3
Gross national savings/GDP                 26.4    24.8       17.0    18.3
Current account balance/GDP                -7.0      4.7      -1.8                                        Investment
Interest payments/GDP                        ..Savgs
Total debt/GDP                                ..
Total debt service/exports                   ..
Present value of debtVGDP                    ..
Present value of debt/exports                ..                                            Indebtedness
197646  1986-96    1996       1996  1997-06
(average annual growth)                                                                  South Afnica
GDP                                2.5      1.1      3.4      3.1       ..               Upper-niddle-incone group
GNP per capita                     0.0    -0.9       1.0       0.8
Exports of goods and services      0.8      3.6      9.3      7.8       ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1986      1996    1996       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 8.5      5.8       4.4     4.7      30
Industry                                   42.8    45.9       39.2    38.8      20
Manufacturing                            23.7    23.1       24.3    23.8      10
Services                                   48.8    48.3       56.4    56.5      0
Private consumption                        56.9    53.7      60.8    60.9      -o0
General govemment consumption              13.8    17.3       20.6    20.9              -G0          -I  GDP
Imports of goods and services              30.5    23.2      24.7    25.7    _
1975-85  1986-96     1995    1996
(average annual grwth)                                                         Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                 0.8      0.9    -14.9    25.8       20
Industry                                    2.1      0.2       4.2     0.6
Manufacturing                             2.7      0.2       7.6      0.4     10
Services                                    3.1      1.5       3.7     2.8
Private wonsumption                         3.4      1.9       4.7     3.8      o
General govemment consumption               4.4      2.6       0.3     5.0        .     1    92   93   84   es   95
Gross domestic investment                  -1.8    -0.2       11.9    -1.0      10
Imports of goods and services              -1.2      6.3      16.6     7.5             -Exports           lmpDrts
Gross national product                      2.5      1.4       3.3     3.0
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wiil
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                   Page 46
Country: South Africa                                                                    Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
South Africa
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1985       1995    1996       Infation
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        20
Consumer prices                              13.5     16.3       8.6      7.4    1s
Implicit GDP deflator                        10.9     18.1       8.9      8.4    1s
Government rinance
(%1 of GDP)                                                                        a
Current revenue                              25.9    29.5       31.3                     91   92   93   94   95   99
Current budget balance                        4.2      2.2      -2.5                         -GDP def.    I  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      -4.9     -3.3      -6.0
TRADE
1975     1985      1995    1996       Eport and import vels (mif. US)
(millions USS)                                                                       p
Total exports (fob)                        8,422   15,802    28,626   29,120      30,000
Commodity 1-Gold                          3,433    6,940     6,214    6,120
n.e.                                                                            2,O
Manufactures                                                                    2L
Total imports (cif)                        9,162   10,426    27,009   27,075
Food                                          .        ..*                *.     15,D50
Fuel and energy                              .,
Capital goods                                ..       ..        ..        .         o
Export price index (1987=-100)                                                           90.  .  .s   91  S2  93  S4  95  9S
Import price index (1987d100)                                                                     p..  ..  *prts    n Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                                                         _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1995    1996
(millions USS)                                                                    Cuirrent account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services              9,548   17,703    30,121        ..     3
Imports of goods and services             11,063   12.760    30,206
Resource balance                           -1,515    4,943       -85       ..     2
Net income                                 -1,116   -2,395    -2,668       ..
Netcurrenttransfers                          102       74       377
Current account balance,                                                              90        92  93
before official capital transfers        -2,529    2,622    -2,376        .0
Financing items (net)                      2,618        ..    6,236
Changes in net reserves                      -89        ..   -3,860        ..   -2
Memo:                                                                             _
Reserves induding gold (mirl. US$)         2,978    1,897      8,231    8,855
Conversion rate (localAJS$)                   0.7      2.2       3.6      4.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1985      1995    1996
(millions US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           .        .
IBRD                                         ..
IDA                                                        ..
Total debt service
IBRD                                         ..
IDA                                                    ..
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..
Official creditors                          ..
Private creditors                            ..
Foreign direct investment                  185    -450          3
Portfolio equity                             ..
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..
Disbursements                               ..
Principal repayments                         ..
Net flows                                    ..
Interest payments                            ..
Net transfers                                ..
Development Economics                                                                                              8/26/97



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 47
Country: South Africa                   Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Annex 1 1
Map of the Cape Peninsula
Table Bay
Sea Point
Caoe Town
Camps Say
N                               Nse aun.;.l i 
(Irstnboasch
aouthm Suburbs
-                         ~~~~~~~~~Cape Flats
k :::..t-  SRvefmine
8~~~~Ntr Resa ne
Noordhouker
Kommetjie
Smcn's Town             False Bay
Scarbourough
Good Hope
0,
I]Nature Reserves within CPPNE
C P P N E                                        Cp  an
Cape Point
Map of the Cape Peninsula. Shaded areas indicate the extent of the Cape Peninsula Protected Natural
Environment (CPPNE) and the location of the three existing nature reserves. The national park will
encompass all shaded portions. The Table Mountain Fund will ensure the exceptional biodiversity of
this area is conserved in perpetuity.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 48
Country: South Africa                     Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Annex 12
The Financial Perspective for the Cape Peninsula National Park
The Cape Peninsula National Park is in need of external support for the first few years of its
existence, but has the potential of becoming financially sustainable a few years into the next
century. These two points are brought out in chart 1 below, showing net cashflows for the park
during 1998-2006. Achieving financial cost-recovery will take approximately six years, which is
also the length of the project investment period that GEF will support.
The net cashflow measure shown is composed of operational revenue less operational costs, less
capital costs, and less loan servicing costs. The revenue is comLposed of (a) declining public
subsidies through local government and the South African National Parks, (b) increasing tourism
admission fees, and (c) increasing revenues from tourism ventures. These ventures are operated
by the private sector, but pay a share of turnover to the Park. Examples are the cable car
operation, restaurants and curio shops. The trends and magnitude of these revenues are shown in
chart 2 below.
While the area of the park is rather limited, about 30,000 hectares, the visitor statistics are
increasingly impressive, and explain the high level of financial turnover. The southern end of the
park around Cape of Good Hope is expected to receive about 750,000 visitors in 1997, growing
to almost 1.4 million in the year 2003 (i.e. at the end of the project period). Similarly, Boulders
penguin park is expected to attract more than 0.5 million visitors in 1997, growing to about 0.9
million in 2003. Based on both growing numbers and rising fees, total admission income, in the
order of $2 million in 1997, is expected to grow to more than $ iL 0 million in 2003.
The revenue side must be contrasted with the high investment demand to firmly establish the
park, and significant operational costs to provide a large number of visitors with a high-quality
experience. Of particular interest with regard to investment is the program for eradication of
alien species. The techniques used and considerations regarding re-infestation and rehabilitation
of the flora are dealt with separately in annex x. In financial terms, the program requires heavy
investment tin the first few years, and long-term, but much less expensive follow-up for the long-
term future. The investment profile is illustrated in chart 3 below. Its main feature is the drastic
drop in cost after the first few years of clearing of the mature alien plants have taken place.
Follow-up clearance is undertaken every two years, starting the second year after initial clearing
of the land. This explains the particular shape of the follow-up cost curve. In conclusion, chart 3
underlines the need for investment support in the short run, while the long-term maintenance
problems can be tackled with the increasing financial revenues from the park, supplemented by
the income from the Trust Fund. The latter will also direct its funding to areas outside of the
Cape Peninsula, elsewhere in the Cape Floral Kingdom.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                            Page 49
Country: South Africa                                                                                              Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Cape Peninsula National Park: Net Cashflow
8.0-
6.0
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0    .:ii:i  .i  ........... ..... S
4.0
2.0-
0.0
20 i_ 0 :0\ X t0 0 - 004 0 :t _ _ |W$mt11ion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:203  0                    0
_   ~~~~~~~~  .  2003  . 2004 ^ 2005 i2006~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00    2 4.              05            .
-2.0
-4.0
-6.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                              Page 50
Country: South Africa                                                                          Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Cape Peninsula National Park: Revenues
20.0-
18.0
16.0
14.0
12.0
10.0         19992000200120022003200420052006issions
U _Public; su~bsidies
8.0-
6.0
4.0
2.0
0.0
1998         1999        2000         2001         2002         2003          2004         2005         2006



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                         Page 51
Country: South Africa                                                                                 Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Cape Peninsula National Park: Alien Clearance Program
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
1998           1999           2000           2001           2002           2003            2004           2005            2006



Project Appraisal Document                                            Page 52
Country: South Afnca                 Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Annex 13
Capacity Building through the Training of Entrepreneurs and NGO's
Introduction
The thinking with regard to project implementation has been suffused with two ideas, the
need to work through partnerships wherever possible and the intention to develop
contractor capacity over a very wide spectrum of activities, so that extensive outsourcing
becomes a practical possibility. One of the most challenging aspects of managing this
project involves scaling-up in a very short space of time. This implies expanding the
available contractor capacity significantly beyond what exists at present. These ideas are
already being given a practical reality in the on-going activities of the project team.
Starting in February, 1997 the team has been running a pilot programme on the
development of small contractors, working with long-term umemployed and largely
illiterate people from a neighbouring squatter community as the experimental group. This
pilot programme has been funded by a grant of $90,000 fromn USAID through the US-SA
Bi-national commission.
Contractor Capacity
The contractor capacity referred to here involves very basic technical skills relating to
activities such as alien vegetation clearing, picnic site maintenance, footpath maintenance
and construction and anti-erosion work. A suite of different activities will be undertaken
concurrently in order to expand the available contractor capacity as rapidly as possible.
The business and managerial skills that contractors must develop are common to all
emerging small and medium enterprises. A sample of approaches being considered is the
followving:
(i) Expand existing contractor capacity by awarding contracts to this group subject to
conditions designed to achieve the objective of creating contractor opportunities for
members of previously disadvantaged communities i.e. contract subject to skill transfers
being built in;
(ii) Encourage NGO's with some demonstrable abilities in this area to establish their own
contracting units. This is a very interesting possibility to which some members of the
NGO fraternity have already responded positively. There are at least 10 NGO's with the
managerial capacity already in place which would allow them to respond positively to
this proposal immediately;



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 53
Country: South Afuica                  Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
(iii)Allow private landowners to operate as contractor of choice on their land once this
land has been contracted into the park subject to the considerations under (i) and that the
rates charged by the landowner would have to be commercially competitive;
(iv) Enter into partnerships with NGO's and other organisations operating through the
provision of training programmes, in the field ofjob creation and entrepreneurial
development. This looks very promising in that one of the important things which the
national park can bring to this arrangement is a guaranteed market for the service that
emergent contractors are being trained to supply;
(v) Expand the pilot programme activities mentioned above as rapidly as possible. One
mechanism is through the use of training professionals applying our methodology under
our supervision at least to those parts of the process where this could be appropriate e.g.
use others to impart the practical skills of footpath maintenance. There are undoubtedly
parts of this process which only the park management can do, such as the relationship
building activities within the target community. Another is to expand internal team
capacity to undertake these activities on a significantly larger scale. Both options need
serious exploration; and
(vi) Establish incentives for ex-municipal employees, being inherited from existing
municipal employers along with the conservation areas being transferred to the park's
management, to resign and become contractors to the park. This group consists of 220
employees amongst whom there are several individuals who have expressed serious
interest in this idea. One or two well-celebrated success stories should have the effect of
exciting considerable further interest in this option.
Brief process description
In the case of most of the options mentioned above, practical implementation is
impossible until the park management have conservation areas under their operational
control. Preparatory and planning activities are at various stages of advancement with
regard to these opportunities but the project team cannot take this work beyond
preparation at this time. However, the pilot activity mentioned above is the exception to
the rule. It has gone through the following steps:
(i) Choose a community to work in and interact with them informally until they are
comfortable with you and you are able to identify the "movers and shakers";
(ii) Facilitate the setting up of a core representative group. Get the community's
agreement regarding the proposal to work with a group of community members in order
to attempt the development of stand alone contractors from their community;
(iii) Agree the criteria for choosing the starter group. In the pilot, these were not more
than one member of a household, currently unemployed, equal numbers of men and
women and physical fitness adequate to the envisaged task;



Project Appraal s Document                                                  Page 54
County: South Africa                    Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
(ivy)Begi training of technical skills but design all activities in such a way as to
encourage individuals to take responsibility for their life outcomes. In the pilot, this
process lasted 3 months during which time all 23 participants were on short-term
employment contracts receiving a daily wage. A half day per week was devoted to off-
the-job training. Phase 1 was followed by a four week interval in which half the time was
sper:t in a training room for which participants received an allowance. Some of the
original group dropped out voluntarily in this phase; and
(v) A core group of I I remaining participants selected from the original 23, were given
further on-the-job training in Phase 2. After a number of "simulated contracting"
experiences, 5 members of this group are setting up contracts for their own completion
under guidance, experimenting with different possibilities and "employing" others. These
"employees" are drawn from the original group and have learnt the skills to clear alien
vegetation effectively, but for one or other reason are no longer part of the group seen as
having the potential to become stand alone contractors. The responsibility for these
"employees" is still with the project team. In other words, they are not yet employees of
the einergent contractors but in some respects are treated as if they already were indeed
employed by them. The next developmental step for these nascent contractors is to take
responsibility for the employment of the labour resources that they require in order to
execute their contracts.
Conclding Remarkls
Developinig capable and reliable contractors from the ranks of the unemployed is an
arduous and exacting process for which no recipes exist. It is essential that an acceptance
of leanning-by-doing is adopted, which implies that on occasions, with the benefit of
hindsight, it will be possible to identify "mistakes" with their attendant cost implications.
However, for a park being created adjacent to many desperately poor communities,
perseverance has many rewards. As a mechanism for developing very sound relationships
between the park and -the community, the process is possibly unsurpassed. Furthermore,
the process offers numerous opportunities for spin-off benefits, for example in terms of
envir-onmental education for participants, their families and other community members.
In the first 5 years the park team would hope to see the emergence of at least 50 robust
contractors, each employing on average 1O other people. An essential qualitative target is
that these contracts should depend on the park for no more than 50% of their annual
turnover. The objective of the process must be independence of the contractors not
dependency. This is an outcome on which there is no room. whatsoever for compromise.
The pilot indicates that the process is characterised by high rates of attrition. The original
23 are dowm to only 5 and the process is not yet complete. Eventually, 2 robust
contractors may be a realistic outcome. Supposing that the growing experience of the
park team allows the attrition rate to be restricted to approximately 75%, this implies that
the efforts of the pilot need to be doubled and then maintained at that level every year for



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 55
Country: South Africa                        Project Tttle: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
the next 5 years in order for an outcome of 50 contractors to be a realistic possibility.
What this analysis has ignored is that among the other processes enumerated above, all
easier to implement that the pilot process, there will undoubtedly also be some success
stories in terms of new, capable contractors emerging.



Project Appraisal Document                                                Page 56
Country: South Affica                  Project Title: CapDe Peninsula Biodiverslty Conservation Project
Annex 14
Rehabilitation and Restoration following Alien Vegetation Removal
Background
Alien invasive species (particularly Acacia Cyclops and Acacia Seligma) are the major
threat to biological diversity in the Cape Peninsula and in the Broader Cape Floral
Kingdom. These species were introduced from Australia to South Africa with the best of
intentions generations ago. If nothing is done, these species will continue spreading and
subduing the exceptionally biodiversity rich natural vegetation almost entirely unless
effectively controlled. A study in 1994 showed that 330/o of the natural vegetation on the
entire peninsula was lightly invaded by alien species (canopy cover < 25%) and about
11% is densely invaded (>25%). The rate of infestation varies considerably depending on
soil fertility, rainfall, altitude, fire frequency and differences in reproductive and dispersal
ability of each alien species. It is therefore difficult to model the spread in a laissez-faire
scenario. Based on aerial photo interpretations, experts have modeled infestation using
various declining spread rates, showing that the current infestation may reach 70-90% of
the area in about 20 years.
Alien plants, besides their threat to natural biodiversity, do not present any substantial
value both in terms of timber and fuelwood. Their scurubby nature precludes almost
entirely their use for carpentry. Their fuelwood value is substantially lowered because of
broken terrain and resulting extremely high cost of transportation to access roads.
Consequently most of eradicated alien plants has to be burned on the spot.
This problem has been extensively researched by the University of Cape Town for the
last 20 years in association with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)
and the Department of Water Affairs. Results from this research have been applied
through the Working for Water Program for the last 3 years as well as through NGO-
implemented conservation activities. The lessons learned from research and acquired
exlperience are the following: (1) re-establishment of natuiral biodiversity-rich "fynbos"
ecosystem has been amazingly rapid because of large seed bank stored in the soils.
Nevertheless maintenance is required because soils do also contain seed bank from alien
plEnts. This maintenance (done mainly manually) does not create any particular
disturbance to fynbos regeneration, on the contrary; (ii) the denser the alien plant thicket
is, the riskier it becomes in terms of high temperature fire due to excessive accumulation
of biomass, which in turn have a negative impact on natural seed bank and on soil
erosion. Thick alien plant canopy are also detrimental for natural fauna development;
(iii) there is no need for re-seeding or growing nurseries due to fynbos resilience; (iv) the
diversity of topography and micro-climate on the Cape FPeninsula and the broader CFK
requires permanent fine-tuning, monitoring and knowledge dissemination of alien plant
eradication combined techniques and their actual effect of fynbos regeneration; and (v)



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 57
Country: South Africa                   Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
despite the diversity of situations, there is however solid track records on average cost of
eradication and maintenance in three types of alien plant infestation (low, moderate,
high).
Combined techniques
The first intervention consists of cutting alien plants using manual tools and chain saws
as well as herbicide on the stumps to eliminate resprouting. Such intervention has to start
in upper watersheds as seeds are disseminated by water streams inter alia. This
intervention is preceded by, or combined with, bio-control techniques using parasitic
fungus and insects that hamper seed production of alien plants.
The first intervention needs to be followed by annual maintenance to eliminate re-
infestation by alien plant seed bank stored in the soils. Assuring this maintenance is
steadily done, its intensity will progressively decrease providing there is no re-infestation
from adjacent areas.
Fire as a regenerative mechanism
Fire is an essential regenerative mechanism in the Cape Floral Kingdom and all species
are adapted in one way or another to survive periodic fire events with some species being
favoured by events of low heat intensity while others are at an advantage following fires
of high intensity. The accumulation of seed stock in the soil, with the seeds of different
species being moved by ants or other agents to different depths in the soil profile, makes
post-fire regeneration, with insurance against variations in intensity, possible. In the case
of certain species, the primary regenerative mechanism is fire stimulated resprouting of
root stock, bulbs and corms or by the release of canopy stored seeds.
The most problematic aspect of alien vegetation control in the fynbos is that the alien
species which present the most serious threats originate from a similar fire climax
vegetation in Australia and have their own suite of adaptive mechanisms to survive
periodic fires. Chief amongst these is the storage of seed in the soil profile. The long term
viability of such soil stored seed from the main alien species, is unknown but there is
abundant evidence that it exceeds 50 years, and probably exceeds 100. Furthermore, these
plants generally grow at a faster rate than local species and produce seed within 3 years of
germination in incredibly prolific quantities.
Natural restoration following clearing
After the removal of light to medium infestations of alien species, defined as showing
less than 25% canopy cover, recovery of original fynbos communities is not a serious
issue. It occurs by coppicing root stock, resprouting bulbs & corms and the germination
of soil borne seed in the isolated spots where the aliens have been cleared. Unfortunately,
the alien seed store generally germinates at least equally proficiently as indigenous seeds,
which necessitates regular weeding once in every two years in previously cleared areas.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 58
Country: South Africa                   Project Title: Cap(E Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
It is after the removal of medium or heavy alien infestations, greater than 25% canopy
cover up to closed canopy situations, that restoration may require more careful
consideration. Following alien vegetation removal, the lilter covered soil surface is
exposed to heat, either from fire or the radiation of the sun, or disturbance, if only to a
limited extent. All of these factors stimulate rapid germiination of soil stored seed, both of
the alien and indigenous kind. The re-establishment of cover is extremely rapid in general
and does not require any deliberate intervention to restore the natural vegetation other
than regular weeding to remove the regerminating alien species.
There are two serious risks following alien clearing operations. The first is the occurrence
of regular fires on the same area at intervals of between 3 and 10 years. Before 3 years
there is generally insufficient fuel for a fire. Each successive fire restimulates the
germination of as yet ungerminated soil borne seed. The indigenous seed stock is
exhausted far more rapidly under these conditions than the alien stock, especially in cases
where local species only produce viable seed quantities at ten or more years of age. If
indigenous species post fire regeneration is poor, then the need for reseeding would merit
consideration. This necessity is extremely rare but cannot be ruled out.
The second risk is more commonly experienced. Many of the soils on which fynbos
occurs are naturally hydrophobic. The occurrence of exceptionally hot fires on such soils
exacerbates this characteristic, leading to overland water ilows rather than saturation of
the soil profile and the recharging of ground water resources, following heavy rainfall
events. This can have serious erosional consequences, as has been documented in a
number of cases. Following alien vegetation removal on rnedium to heavily infested sites,
the fuel load remaining, either broadcast across the site or stacked in brush rows or piles
can be very high indeed. In the hot, windy conditions which occur frequently in the Cape
summer, fires on such sites usually are very intense and result in exactly the hydrophobic
consequences which should be avoided. The ideal would be the removal of all the
brushwood generated in the alien clearing operations. Howvever, the piece sizes, the nature
of the terrain, the distance from road side and the very low economic value of the
material, all mitigate against removal except under very special circumstances. In situ
burning of cut brush piles is an option presently used. At the moment the primary use is
for fire wood. The development of a high value added market for this material would
make the removal of far greater quantities than occurs at present an economic possibility.
Some studies on the use of this woody material as a feedstock for the production of
activated carbon powder are currently being undertaken by a company already involved
in the activated carbon business with some support from the project team. It is however
too early to predict the chances of success.
In a very small number of isolated cases it may be necessary to consider the creation of
barriers along the contour to prevent soil losses and the use of nursery raised transplants
for the rehabilitation of cleared areas. In 95% of the area, if not more, rehabilitation and
restoration of the natural state needs no specific intervention other than the regular
weeding of alien germinants.



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 59
Country: South Africa                  Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Reinfestation Issues
The germination of soil stored alien seed is by far the greatest source of reinfestation for
the reasons elaborated above. The issue of reinfestation from beyond the area under
conservation management is far less serious, although not to be discounted entirely. The
main vectors for seed transport are wind, water, birds and to a lesser extent by mammals
such as baboons and the importation of seeds with construction/road fill material. Wind is
only a serious issue in the case of pines, mainly Pinus pinaster, but the others are
responsible for some inbound seed movement amongst the other weed species of concern.
Infestation of some streams and rivers by Blackwood, Black Wattle and other waterborne
seed producers is a localised problem. This leaves the effects of birds on seed
movement. Clearing of alien infestations, particularly where these are dense, and the
return of the plant cover to fynbos, constitutes a very significant habitat change seen from
the point of view of resident bird populations. This is likely to be the main contributing
factor discouraging the inbound movement of bird-borne seed following initial alien
vegetation removal. In summary, reinfestation from sources other than the seed stock in
the soil is likely to be no more significant in the future than to have nuisance value. The
object which must be constantly strived for is to ensure that invasive alien species re-
establishing themselves are denied the opportunity ever to set seed.
Methodology for Eradication
The approach to eradication is to achieve the objective, the removal of all alien invasive
species at the seed bearing stage of development within five years, by applying methods
which will limit the concommittant damage to the surviving or emerging indigenous flora
to a minimum. Considered together with the mrountainous terrain, this definitely calls for
the use of manual, labour intensive methods. This approach obviously has other
attractions such as the creation of significant numbers of jobs and the releasing of large
numbers of contracting opportunities for small entrepreneurs. The specific methods will
depend extensively on the use of hand weeding where possible but usually in follow-up
situations, or the use of hand tools such as loppers, bush knives and bow saws. These
hand tools will be mechanised in appropriate situations being upgraded to chainsaws and
hand-held mechanical brushcutters as required. The only practical method available to
kill permanently resprouting alien species is the use of herbicide. The product of choice is
Garlon (Triclopyr) which is selective to broadleaf species but can have some deleterious
affects on other plants if not applied correctly. There are no identifiable medium or long
term consequences through the use of this herbicide other than plant mortality. In most
cases, it would be applied with a brush by hand, in solution with dieseline, to the stumps
of resprouting species immediately after felling or alternatively using a knap-sack sprayer
in solution with water through a cone nozzle in a highly directed spray onto dense stands
of seedlings.



Project Appraisal Document                                            Page 60
Country: South Africa                Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Annex 15
STRATEGIC PLAN AND INVESTMENT PROGRAM
FOR THE CONSERVATION OF THE MARINE AND
TERRESTRIAL BIODIVERSITY OF TIIE CAPE FLORISTIC
REGION
1. BACKGROUND ON THE CAPE FLORISTIC REGION
The Cape Floristic Region (CFR) and adjoining marine areas:
*     have spectacularly high levels of plant and animal biodiversity;
*     embrace one of the world's six floral kingdoms - by far the smallest, and
the only floral kingdom within one country;
*     have three marine provinces;
*     have important RAMSAR sites;
*     have many sites of scenic beauty.
Because of the high biodiversity and threats to terrestrial systems, the CFR is world's
hottest biodiversity hotspots. The region houses 1400 Red Data Book species. Some
important habitats have been reduced by 90%, and only 5% of land in the lowlands
enjoys any conservation status. Major threats to biodiversity in terrestrial systems
include alien plants, urbanisation, coastal resort developrnent, unsustainable harvesting of
natural products, environmental degradation e.g. soil erosion, and inappropriate waste
management leading to declining scenic quality.
Unsustainable exploitation of marine resources is having a major impact on biodiversity,
with very important economic implications (e.g. a collapse of commercially exploited
fish stocks).
For both terrestrial and marine systems, a major problem has been the ad hoc nature of
conservation planning. Another major problem is related to the reduced budget allocation
to conservation activities at the local, provincial and national levels due to social and
economic priorities
2. OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE
(a) The objectives are twofold:
*  to develop a long-term strategy to ensure the conservation of the CFR and
adjoining marine ecosystems; and



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 61
Country: South Africa                  Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
*  to prepare a 5-year investment program focused on first priorities within the
strategy to be presented to financial agencies, private and public, national and
international, including GEF.
The overarching goal will be to promote economic growth with social equity through the
conservation and wise utilization of the CFR's biodiversity while mobilizing resources,
such as GEF, to support the incremental costs related to global benefits. More
specifically, the Plan will focus on;
*     the effective and efficient conservation of marine and terrestrial
biodiversity and landscapes;
*     the utilization of biodiversity through the promotion of responsible nature-
based tourism and sustainable exploitation of biodiversity;
*     the development of biocentric planning approaches that minimize
biodiversity loss and landscape degradation and maximize economic
growth based on sustainable use of natural resources;
*     ensuring that employment opportunities are created especially within the
disadvantaged communities.
(b) Scope
The plan and its first 5-year investment program will be limited to the Western Cape
Province which encompasses most of the Cape Floral Kingdom. Regarding GEF
financing, the plan will be limited to the "green agenda". However should the Province be
able to mobilize additional resources, the Plan could become an overall environmental
action plan including the "brown agenda" related to industrial and urban environmental
management.
The preparation of this plan would be the first of its kind in South Africa and,
consequently could be used as a model in other provinces.
3. PHASING AND PROCESS
The overall plan and investment program would be prepared in 3 phases:
(i) taking stock of the current situation and highlighting the main conservation
issues related to current physical, institutional, legal, economic and social
conditions
(ii) elaborating a long-term strategic vision via the preparation and comparison of
various scenarios; and
(Wii) preparing the S-year investment program to deal with conservation priorities.



Project Appraisal Document                                             Page 62
Country: South Africa                 Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
This 3-phased approach will involve consultation of the main stakeholders through
workshops, particularly following the completion of each phase.
4. MAIN BUILDING BLOCKS
The preparation of the long-term strategy and related investment program will be based
on four main building blocks:
(i) Terrestrial biodiversity This block would aim to identify an effective and
efficient reserve system; to identify and model dynamic spatial patterns of
principal threats to biodiversity; and to provide a planning framework for the
conservation of biodiversity outside of reserves. Work on this block has already
been initiated by UCT and will be pursued and completed.
(ii) Marine biodiversity and coastal zone management. This block would aim to
identify the priority coastal and marine areas for conservation. A methodology
similar to (i) will be used.
(iii) Institutional, legal and policy framework. This block will aim (i) to assess the
current institutional, legal and policy framework of the Western Cape Province
regarding the "green agenda"; this includes both the public and private sectors as
well the NGO community; (ii) to highlight the main issues; (iii) to propose
solutions; and (iv) to implement them within the context of the 5-year investment
program
(iv) Financial, economic and social analysis. This block will aim (i) to assess the
current situation regarding the financing of conservation; (ii) current benefits and
their distribution to the different segments of society through conservation
farming, nature-based tourism and other activities; (iii) key issues; and (iv)
solutions to be proposed.
The preparation of these four blocks would have to be well coordinated, as the last two
blocks cross over the first two. These blocks then woul,d have to be fully integrated for
the preparation of the long-term strategy and the first 5-year investment period.
5. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
The preparation of the Plan and its related investment program will be supervised by a
Provincial Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of Finance and Enviromnent,
Government of the West Cape Province. This committee will meet from time to time
when key decisions need to be made. The composition of this Committee and its terms of
reference are being defined.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 63
Country: South Africa                       Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
The day-to-day plan preparation activities will be coordinated by a full-time coordinator
assisted by a light secretariat. These activities will involved individual consultants as well
as consulting firms on the major building blocks. Overall technical supervision will be
ensured by a Technical Committee chaired by the director of the Institute for Plant
Conservation, UCT and including members covering areas related to biodiversity
conservation, institutional, legal aspects, and socio-economic aspects. This technical
committee is being assembled and its Terms of Reference are being defined.
The financial management including contracting will be ensured by the WWF-SA  in
close association with the Technical Committee and the South African National Parks.
6. TIMETABLE
Dates                           Activities                      Responsibility
End of October 1997             agreement on the concept of the  WWF-SA/UCT/Provincial
CFK strategic plan and investment  Government
program;
End of March 1998               terms of reference for the steering  WWF-SA/UCT/Provincial
and technical committees as well as  Government
for plan coordinator
End of March 1998               Advertising of CFK blocks 3 and 4  WWF-SA/World Bank
in Development Business and local
media
March 1998                      (i) Establishment of Steering and  WWF-SA/UCT/Provincial
Technical Committees            Government
Month X                         (ii)   Appointment   of   plan  WWPF-SA
coordinator
X + 4 months                    First stakeholder consultation  Steering Committee
July 1998 (if month X is prior to  Appointment of consultants for the  WWF-SA
July 1998) or month X (if after main building blocks
July 1998)
X + 6 to 12 months              Taking  stock  of the  current Coordinator/Consultants
situation
X + 13 to 17 months             Development of scenarios and  Technical Committee/Consultants
long-term strategy
X + 19 months                   Second Stakeholder consultation    Steering Committee
X + 20 to 22 months             Preparation   of  the   5-year  Coordinator/Technical
investment program              Committee/Consultants
X + 23 months                   Third stakeholder consultation  Steering Committee
X + 24 months                   Program presentation to fnancial  Steering/Technical   Committees/
agencies including GEF          WWF-SA



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 64
Country: South Africa                        Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
7. COST ESTIMATE
5.     Costing (in sUS)'
Components               GEF                    Local             Total            % of Grand
contribution          contribution 2                      Total
Biodiversity (terrestrial    300 000            30 000            330 000                32
and marine)
Institutional            250 000               20 000             270 000                26
Socio-economic           200 000                15 000            215 000                20
Coordination             100 000                10 000            110 000                10
Public participation     50 000                 10 000            60 000                  6
Preparation   of   GEF  50 000                  10 000            60 000                  6
submission
Sub-total                950 000               95 000             1045 000        I
Contingency              95 000                9 500              104 500
(10% of total)                                                    10450
Total                    1 045 000              104 500           1 150 000
Costing for "green" issues only; "brown" issues to be funded from local external sources
2
Local contribution corresponds to funds already budgeted for participatinig agency (eg. SANP, UCT)



Project Appraisal Document                                           Page 65
Country: South Africa                Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Annex 16
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.    Introduction
This Environmental Analysis (EA) was commissioned by South African National Parks
(SANP) and carried out by the Environmental Evaluation Unit (EEU), University of Cape
Town. A first draft was presented during the World Bank appraisal in September 1997
with NGO participation. This draft was then made available to the public and finalized
by EEU in October 1997.
2.    Terms of Reference
The Environmental Evaluation Unit's terms of reference for this study were to:
1. Review the existing institutional and legal context to determine whether the potential
environmental implications (both negative and positive) of the Cape Peninsula
Biodiversity Conservation Project would be managed effectively.
2. Identify the potential environmental impacts of the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity
Conservation Project.
3. Assess the significance of potential negative and positive environmental impacts
arising from the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project through the
application of standardised assessment criteria (first step criteria: extent, magnitude,
duration, and second step criteria: risk, probability and cumulative effect).
4. Recommend management measures required to effectively manage potential impacts
arising from the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project.
3.    Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
The Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project consists, in its initial phase (6
years), of three distinct (yet interrelated) clusters of activity.
* The largest element involves establishing a national park on the Cape Peninsula
which will integrate the conservation of the area's terrestrial and marine biodiversity
under a single management authority (see Figure 2).
* The second component involves the management of the Table Mountain Fund by
World Wide Fund for Nature, South Africa (WWF-SA).



Project Appraisal Document                                             Page 66
Country: South Africa                 Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
* The final cluster of activities involve the compilation of a strategic plan and
investment programme for conservation of the biodiversity of the Cape Floral
Kingdom (see Figure 1).
4.    Scope of and approach to the EA
The EA aimed to:
*  Focus on the activities encompassed in the three broad components of the Cape
Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project identified for Global Environmental
Facility funding.
*  Be informed by, and be undertaken in accordance with, the South African Integrated
Environmental Management guidelines (Department of Environment Affairs, 1992).
Although Integrated Environmental Management does not require public participation
for an initial EIA, relevant specialists and key interested and affected parties were
consulted where appropriate.
*  Approach the environment in an holistic and integrated fashion. The environmental
effects were assessed for significance in the following interrelated categories: natural
environment (e.g. fauna and flora, physical features and processes); socio-economic
(e.g. social delivery, environmental education, economic empowerment, revenue
generation, skills training and capacity building), and user experience (e.g. quality of
experience, sense of place, aesthetics, accessibility, range of recreational activities,
information).
Although the programrnes (and activities) that make up the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity
Conservation Project were assessed separately, they should not be seen in isolation.
These programmes are interrelated and thus need to be integrated to ensure effective
operational management of the proposed Cape Peninsula National Park.
5.    Key assumptions and limitations
Key assumptions and limitations relevant to the EA are as follows:
.  The EEU has assumed that the information supplied to them by the SANP is
comprehensive and accurate;
*  In evaluating the overall significance of the effects of the programmes, the EEU
assumed that mitigatory actions (measures comnnitted to by SANP and
recommendations made by the EEU relating to each programme) would be effectively
implemented by the SANP. Without these mitigatory actions, the significance ratings
would change substantially and become largely negative in status.



Project Appraisal Document                                          Page 67
Country: South Africa                Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
* This study had to be undertaken in a very short time period (first draft: 4 weeks and
second draft: 4 weeks). Verification of information and new research was therefore
limited. However, the EEU is confident of its EA. The initiation of monitoring and
auditing programmes [committed to as part of the environmental management system
(EMS)] will act as future checking mechanisms for the proposed programme.
6.    Key findings relating to legal context and institutional capacity
Key findings of the Initial Assessment regarding legal context and institutional capacity
are as follows:
6.1   Legal and statutory context
A review of the legal and statutory context found that:
* There is a political commitment (in terms of existing South African legislation and
policies) to protect, regulate and invest in biodiversity conservation.
* Regarding areas within the boundaries of the proposed National Park, the National
Parks Act 57 of 1976 will supersede all existing legislation. In terms of an agreement
reached between SANP and local authorities, SANP is committed to Integrated
Environmental Management (IEM) which include environmental impact assessments
for any infrastructural developments such as roads or buildings.
* Regarding developments on the boundaries of the proposed National Park, IEM
regulations, published on 5 September 1997 under the Environmental Conservation
Act 73 of 1989, require that environmental impact assessments be undertaken for
listed activities. The IEM regulations will take effect from March 1998 onwards.
6.2   Institutional capacity of the South African National Parks, WWF-SA and
National Park Committee
The successful implementation and ongoing management of the components of the Cape
Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project is dependent mainly on the strong
institutional capacity of the National Parks Board.
The initial evaluation found the SANP to be capable of successfully managing this
project, once the integration and training of personnel is completed and mechanisms are
in place to interact with local authorities and land owners to address urban interface
issues on an ongoing basis.
WWF-SA, which will manage and administer the Table Mountain Fund has a good
reputation and track-record and has as its major objective biodiversity conservation.
WWF-SA has managed many similar projects efficiently. The EEU's initial evaluation



Project Appraisal Document                                             Page 68
Country: South Africa                 Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
found them capable of effectively managing their component of the Cape Peninsula
Biodiversity Conservation Project.
The National Park Committee was appointed in April 1997 by the Minister of
Environmental Affairs and Tourism. Its terms of reference are: to be the driving force for
the proposed National Park in the Cape Peninsula within the general policy framework of
the SANP; to propose significant policies to the SANP after wide public consultation; to
monitor and advise the SANP as to whether the integrated environmental management
procedures are followed for infrastructural developments within the national park or areas
possibly affecting it; to monitor the reporting process of the SANP to the major
stakeholders on a regular basis; to recommend the appointment of advisory subsidiary
committees; and to recommend a name for the new National Park after extensive public
consultation.
The EEU's assessment has found that this committee is currently unable to fulfil the
terms of reference as given by the Minister. The rationale is threefold:
-  Due to the complexity of the issues to be addressed, the committee has not had
enough time to address its terms of reference.
-  Individuals appointed to this committee come from diverse backgrounds and it has
been difficult for them to act in a cohesive fashion.
*  The committee also lacks expertise in specific fields and issues can, as a result, not be
satisfactorily addressed until all members are properly informed.
7.    Impact assessment: methodology
The EEU used a number of criteria to determine the significance of impacts, namely:
extent, magnitude, duration, risk, probability and cumulative effect. An assessment
procedure was followed to assign (1) a significance rating and (2) a status (positive or
negative).
A significance (importance) rating was assigned to potential environmental impacts both
with and without the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project. It is
important to note that although the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project will
give biodiversity conservation and environmental management a "kick-start" in the initial
years of establishing the proposed National Park, the iGlobal Environmental Facility
(GEF) funds will only cover 14% of the costs. 86% of the funds required for the
operation and management of the proposed National Park will be supplied through other
sources.
Without the GEF funds, biodiversity conservation will follow the "slow-go" scenario,
where the focus will initially be on development of infrastructure and tourism
development to obtain the necessary funds for biodiversity conservation (i.e. there will be
less funding available for alien plant eradication programmes and these plants will



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 69
Country: South Africa                   Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
therefore be removed at a slower rate). With GEF funds, biodiversity conservation will
follow the "fast track" scenario, where most of the invasive alien plants within the
boundaries of the proposed National Park will be removed within the initial six year
period, thereby directly benefiting biodiversity conservation.
Key programmes forming part of the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
are:
*  invasive alien plant control;
*  environmental education;
*  fire control and management;
*  tourist infrastructure development;
*  capacity building;
*  incorporation of marine environment into the proposed National Park;
-  knowledge management and monitoring and evaluation; and
3  the development of a strategic plan and investment progranmme for the Cape Floral
Kingdom.
Potential impacts were assessed in three categories:
-  natural environment (e.g. fauna and flora, physical features and processes)
*  socio-economic  (e.g.  social  delivery,  environmental  education,  economic
empowerment, revenue generation, skills training and capacity building), and
3  user experience (e.g. quality of experience, sense of place, aesthetics, accessibility,
range of recreational activities, information). In the context of this study the term
'users' refers to recreational users and visitors.
The significance ratings were defined as follows:
*  High: impacts are pronounced and felt in a region or beyond, and/or locally over an
extended period of time (>6 years).
*  Medium: impacts will have a significant effect locally to regionally which may
extend over the duration of a project programme or activity (<6 years), but are likely
to be of shorter duration.
*  Low: impacts will be localised and temporary.
*  No change: a potential concern which, upon evaluation, was found not to change the
status quo.
A  precautionary principle was integrated into the assessment methodology.   A
conservative significance rating was awarded in instances where there was insufficient
information but the potential for a high level of risk associated with an impact.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 70
Country: South Africa                   Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
It should be noted that the SANP has committed itself publicly, both in writing and
verbally, and in agreements with local authorities, to the implemention of necessary
mitigatory actions to prevent and/or minimise any potential impacts arising from its
activities. In the assessment of the overall significance of each programme, the EEU
therefore assumed that the SANP will honour this commitment.
8.    Synopsis of EA findings
The synopsis of the EA findings are provided in tabular form overleaf. The tables
evaluate two scenarios:
1. A "slow-go" scenario - without the specified programmes (see section 7 above)
forming part of the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project; and
2. A "fast track" scenario - with the specified programmes forming part of the Cape
Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project.
The first and second columns of the attached tables list the broad potential environmental
impacts and their potential effects respectively. Columns three to eight provide the
significance rating and status both without (slow-go scenario) and with (fast-track
scenario) the programmes forming part of the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation
Project. Each of these potential environmental impacts (and their respective effects) is
described in more detail in the main body of this report.
Recommendations and conclusions for each programrme are also provided in tabular
form.
The assessments were made by a multi-disciplinary panel consisting of members of the
EEU team. The SANP project team supplied relevant information and commented on all
iterations that took place during the development of this clocument.
Only the tables regarding the invasive alien plan control program are presented in this
annex as a model. The tables concerning the other project components are available on
request from project file.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                 Page 71
Country: South Africa                                                                     Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
8.1 INVASIVE ALIEN PLANT CONTROL PROGRAMME
The invasive alien plant control programme of the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project is designated to receive a total of approximately
US$ 12 million (SANP: US$ 7 million and WWF-SA: US$ 5) GEF funding. The objective of this six year programme is to remove the entire initial
infestation of woody, seed-bearing alien invasive plants from the proposed National Park, except on modified landscapes. Potential environmental
impacts, their related environmental effects and an assessment of significance and status both without and with this programme, are provided below.
POTENTIAL POTENTIAL EFFECTS                    WITHOUT THE PROGRAMME                        WITH THE PROGRAMME
IMPACTS                                                 slow-go scenario                         fast track scenario
NATURAL  SOCIO-    USER                   NATURAL  SOCIO-    USER
ECONO  EXPERIENCE                           ECONO  EXPERIENCE
MIC                                         MIC
Improved      * increased stability of        low (+)     low (+)       low (+)         high (+)     medium        high (+)
biodiversity     endemic flora                                                                          (+)
conservation   * increased stability of
indigenous fauna
* minimisation of species loss
* larger cleared areas
(reduced infestation)
* reduced alien seed banks
* increased risk posed
through use of chemicals
solutions
Increased     * job creation                no change    low (+)       no change       no change     high (+)      no change
socio-        * capacity building of
economic         contractors
opportunities  * capacity building of
labourers
* higher environmental
awareness
* increased gender equality
* loss of fuel and income
source



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                    Page 72
Country: South Africa                                                                       Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
POTENTIAL POTENTIAL EFFECTS                      WITHOUT THE PROGRAMME                         WITH THE PROGRAMME
IMPACTS                                                   slow-go scenario                          fast track scenario
NATURAL  SOCIO-               USER         NATURAL  SOCIO-               USER
ECONO   EXPERIENCE                         ECONO  EXPERIENCE
MIC                                        MIC
Increased fire  * reduction in alien seed store    low (-)  low (-)         ow (-)       medium (-)    low (-)         low (-)
risk (short    * germination of soil stored
term)             alien seeds
* germination of fynbos seeds
* loss of indigenous fauna
and flora
Cost           * (in)effective phasing of     no change    low (-)       no change       no change      medium       no change
effectiveness     control programme                                                                       (+)
* use of (un)suitable control
methods
Aesthetic      * degradation of views of        low (-)     low (-)        low (-)         low (-)      low (-)      medium (-)
degradation       local residents and day
(short term)      tourists to the city
* degradation of user
experience 
Increased       * degradation of fynbos as a    low (-)     low (-)        low (-)       medium (-)    low (-)         low (-)
trampling and    result of trampling
littering      * visual degradation resulting
from litter
Increased soil  * increased soil               low (-)      low (-)        low (-)         low (-)      low (-)        low (-)
and air           contamination by chemicals
pollution      * increased groundwater
pollution
* increased air pollution
* increased pollution of water
systems



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                      Page 73
Country: South Afrca                                                                         Project Title: Cape Peninsula Blodiversity Conservation Project
POTENTIAL POTENTIAL EFFECTS                        WITHOUT THE PROGRAMME                          WITH THE PROGRAMME
IMPACTS.                                                   slow-go scenario                            fast track scenario
NATURAL   SOCIO-                 USER    NATURAL  SOCIO-                    USER
ECONOMIC EXPERIENCE                          ECONO  EXPERIENCE
MIC
Increased      * disturbance of birds and       low (-)       low (-)          low (-)        low (-)      low (-)      medium (-)
noise             animals
* disturbance of users
* disturbance of adjacent
communities
Increased      * increased sand movement        low (-)       low (-)         low (-)         low (-)      low (-)        low (-)
windblown      * disturbance of local
sand and          communities and users
dust
Health and     * increased accidents and       no change      low (-)         low (-)        no change    low (-)        low (-)
safety risks      injuries from
from more         machinery/equipment
frequent       * increased injuries and
burning           accidents from fires
* increased risk of damage to
property
* accidents and injuries from
handling chemicals
_  exposure to elements     _                                    _   _____
Increased soil * loss of ground cover           low (-)        low (-)         low (-)        low (-)      low (-)        low (-)
erosion (short * silting of streams
term)          * burning increases surface
erodability
. increased soil
transportability
* accelerated run-off
. increased flooding potential



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                 Page 74
Country: South Africa                                                                     Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
CONCLUSIONS                                                     coROMANS 
The funding of the invasive alien plant control programme would have Additional measures required:
significant benefits for biodiversity conservation and provide employment *  Investigate alternative economic solutions to ensure members
opportunities  and  skills  development  to  previously  disadvantaged   from  previously  disadvantaged  comnmunities, who  are
communities. Cost effectiveness depends on phasing and methods used and  currently working as woodcutters or woodsellers, have a
can be either positive or negative.                                      source of income, once the invasive alien species are removed
from within the boundaries of the proposed National Park.
Potential negative environmental effects include: increased fire risk, short *  Ensure the daily removal of litter from work sites.
term aesthetic degradation; increased trampling and littering; increased soil *  Where appropriate, stabilise steep slopes to reduce soil
and air pollution; noise from the use of mechanical equipment; windblown  erosion.
sand and potential health and safety risks.                           *  Restabilise areas where wind blown sand poses a nuisance to
neighbouring communities with the appropriate indigenous
Except for the aesthetic impact of cleared areas, which is temporary and short-    plant species.
term, all negative impacts can be effectively managed.                *  Plan access to alien plant clearing sites to minimise negative
environmental impacts.
The SANP will address potential impacts using the following measures:  *  Use the clearing of alien plants as an opportunity to educate
* Management and monitoring of the programme (and related staff) by    the public regarding the regeneration of indigenous vegetation
section and regional rangers and the Environmental Manager.            and the importance of biodiversity conservation.
* Implementation of a flexible (and adaptable) alien plant eradication plan  *  Do not use chemical treatments during wet and windy w-eather
wnich makes provision for follow up clearing and ongoing monitoring.   conditions.
* Integration of requirements for fire management into the progranmme to  *  In ecologically sensitive areas limit the use of chemicals to
reduce the potential for loss of species, damage to property and personal    minimise the potential harmful effects on invertebrates or
injury.                                                                aquatic ecosystems.
* Ensure good on-site supervision for alien clearing programmes.      * Burn alien plants during calm winter days (while recognising
* Ensure workers do not make cooking fires on the mountain.              that this will contribute to air pollution).
* Provision of appropriate training for labourers and contractors regarding use
of chemicals, equipment, identification of alien plants (before
commencement of programmes).
* Ensure suitably qualified trainers, train workers to employ the correct
methods to ensure maximum mortality of alien species during initial
clearing.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                               Page 75
Country: South Africa                                                                               Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
CONCLUSIONS (CONTINUED):
* Ensure staff wear appropriate protective clothing (e.g. boots, hats, gloves) to
reduce the risk of injury.
* Use of labour from previously disadvantaged communities wherever
practically possible.
* Encourage community participation and long term community support for
the proposed National Park through outreach initiatives.
* Undertake additional research on biocontrol measures used in alien plant
control which will be fed into the knowledge management system.
* Undertake effectiveness studies on alien clearing methods.
* Monitor the effectiveness (ecological and social delivery) and cost -
effectiveness of alien clearing operations.
From the assessment, these measures would contribute towards the mitigation
of potential negative impacts and optimisation of benefits arising from the
programme. Additional measures identified are listed under recommendations.



Project Appraisal Document                                         Page 76
Country: South Africa               Project Tite: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
9.    Mitigation and monitoring plan
The SANP is committed to developing and implementing an Environmental Management
System (EMS) within the next year to systematicallLy control, manage and review
environmental performance. SANP will follow the International Standards Organisation
(ISO) 14001 requirements. Activities supported by the Table Mountain Fund will be
appraised and monitored according to procedures contained in it Operational Manual.
This provides assurances that activities will be environmentally beneficial.
A mitigation and monitoring plan aimed at mitigating and monitoring potential negative
environmental impacts arising from activities within the proposed Cape Peninsula
National Park, will be included in the EMS. The different programmes and plans
forming part of the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project will therefore need
to be integrated into the overall EMS.
It is essential that the measures identified by SANP in each section (see conclusions in
Sections 4 to 11), and recommendations made by the EEU, be integrated into the EMS to
ensure continual improvement in environmental managenment by the SANP.
The EEU recommends that the EMS be developed to address the following broad
categories:
 conservation and sustainable utilisation of natural resouirces
* visitor management
* information management
3 public relations (communication, involvement, consultation, capacity building and
public participation)
 training of SANP staff and contractors
These categories are interrelated and integrated and should not be seen as isolated
components.
The EEU's evaluation of institutional capacity shows that SANP is, with the assistance of
specialist consultants, capable of successfully developing and implementing an ISO 14001
EMS.
10.   Overall recommendations
The successful implementation and ongoing management of the components of the
CPBCP are dependent on the institutional capacity of the SANP and WWF-SA. Overall
recommendations apply mostly to the South African National Parks as the managing
authority of the proposed National Park. They are as follows:



Project Appraisal Document                                           Page 77
Country: South Africa                Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Regarding legal and statutory context related to the CPBCP
Key recommendations relating to the legal and statutory context are:
=>The National Parks Act 57 of 1976, the empowering legislation of the SANP, will
need to be modernised to reflect present day socio-political norms and eliminate
elements of ambiguity especially relating to the management of urban fringe areas of
the proposed National Park over the long term. In addition, the Act will need to be
adapted to allow for mechanisms whereby the SANP may exert influence over
policies, programmes and actions affecting land use planning and development beyond
the boundaries of a park, where necessary, both to protect the ecological processes and
to safeguard the aesthetic value of the scenic national assets in parks. Given the urban
setting of the proposed National Park, the National Parks Act 57 of 1976, must ensure
the sustainable multi-purpose use of Park areas.
Although it is important for the National Parks Act 57 of 1976 to be revised, it should
not be a constraining factor towards the allocation of GEF funds for the CPBCP.
> Form strong, transparent and co-operative relationships and binding agreements with
relevant local authorities over the short to long term to address issues relating to the
management of the urban interface. It is further recommended that SANP regularly
interact with adjacent landowners and other key stakeholders.
Regarding programmes forming part of the CPBCP
To ensure SANP will effectively manage the programmes forming part of the CPBCP the
following management actions are recommended:
* Within one year develop and implement an environmental management plan (EMP)
according to the International Standards Organisation (ISO) 14001 guidelines. SANP
has stated its commitment to such an undertaking.
* Increase communication with National Park Committee, NGOs, CBOs and tourist
organisations to raise awareness of SANP activities. SANP has started implementing
this strategy.
* Build capacity of local NGOs, CBOs and previously disadvantaged communities to
support management initiatives. SANP has started implementing this strategy.
. Promote co-operative relationships with relevant local authorities and recognised
educational and scientific institutions. SANP has stated its commitment to such an
undertaking.
 Develop and follow a growth management strategy to effectively manage increasing
numbers of tourists to the proposed Cape Peninsula National Park, while ensuring



Project Appraisal Document                                            Page 78
Country: South Africa                Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
protection of remote areas with wilderness characteristics. SANP has stated its
commitment to such an undertaking.
* Co-ordinate (and develop) contingency plans in partnership with relevant authorities
in order to ensure:
* the management of pollution incidents and accidents in marine envirornments;
and the
* joint management of fire control and emergencies in urban fringe areas and
the proposed National Park.
11.   Conclusion
The proposed National Park will be proclaimed on an incremental basis in early 1998.
The SANP will then become the managing authority of the proposed National Park. The
proposed National Park will be managed in terms of the National Parks Act 57 of 1976.
Regarding legal and statutory context related to the CPBCP
A review of the legal and statutory context found that:
* There is a political commitment (in terms of existing South African legislation and
policies) to protect, regulate and invest in biodiversity conservation.
* Regulations published on 5 September 1997 under the Environmental Conservation
Act 73 of 1989 will require environmental impact assessments to be undertaken for
development proposals on the boundaries of the proposed National Park.
* The National Parks Act 57 of 1976 will supersede all existing legislation within the
boundaries of the proposed National Park. In terms of an agreement reached between
SANP and local authorities, SANP is committed to Integrated Environmental
Management which includes environmental impact assessment for any infrastructure
developments.
Key potential constraints related to the CPBCP are:
=> SANP will need to effectively absorb and integrate the approximately two hundred
and twenty employees being transferred as part of land transfer agreements. To
facilitate this integration process, the SANP project team will adopt a comprehensive
in-house training programme to ensure good environmental performance and
management of the proposed National Park and CPBCP. This transition period,
notwithstanding how well managed, will understandably cause a degree of
organisational disruption and could constrain effect:ive environmental management in
the short term.
SANP already has a core project team, institutional structure and operational
management strategies in place to develop, implement and manage the CPBCP.



Project Appraisal Document                                           Page 79
Country: South Africa                Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
=: Issues regarding urban interface management still need to be addressed as areas not
included in the proposed National Park would continue to fall under existing
legislation.
Regarding programmes forming part of the CPBCP
The major challenge facing the SANP is the management of increasing numbers of
visitors to the proposed Cape Peninsula National Park without degrading the natural
environment and the effective conservation of biodiversity.  The Cape Peninsula
Biodiversity Conservation Project will enable the SANP to follow a fast track versus a
slow-go scenario thereby making a positive contribution to biodiversity conservation,
mainly through the removal of invasive alien plants within the next six years.
Potential negative environmental impacts identified in this study can all be managed to
eliminate or reduce environmental risks arising from SANP activities. An assumption is
made that SANP will meet their commitments and follow the EEU's recommendations as
given in this report.
Key benefits of the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project are:
* Eradication of alien vegetation in the proposed National Park to contribute to long
term biodiversity conservation of the Cape Floral Kingdom.
- Improved conservation of terrestrial and marine ecosystems in the Cape Peninsula and
the Cape Floral Kingdom.
- Provision of job opportunities and capacity building initiatives to members of local
communities, thereby also involving previously disadvantaged communities in skills
development and nature conservation activities. This forms part of National Parks
Board's broader social delivery programme.
* Provision of environmental education programmes to target previously disadvantaged
communities and users of the proposed National Park.
* Upgrading and development of tourist infrastructure to ensure a high quality user
experience.
* Management of the proposed National Park to reduce risks of wild fires and other
potentially dangerous situations.
* Improved baseline information, monitoring and evaluation and research to inform and
continually update National Parks Board's knowledge management system thus
contributing to effective park management.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 80
Country: South Afrca                        Project Title: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
The overall finding of the EEU's initial environmental impact assessment is that SANP is
potentially able to:
* conserve biodiversity effectively
* manage recreational users of the proposed National Park adequately without degrading
the natural environment; and
* contribute to capacity building of previously disadvantaged communities.
With GEF funding the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project will be able to
follow a "fast track" scenario as GEF funding will give a "kick-start" to the conservation
of biodiversity and the establishment of the proposed National Park. Without GEF
funding, a "slow-go" scenario will be followed, where the focus will initially be on
development of infrastructure to obtain the necessary funds for active biodiversity
conservation.



