Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 028321-SA
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
and
SOUTH AFRICAN NATIONAL PARKS
Dated March 2, 1998
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 028321-SA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 2, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), acting as an implementing agency of 
Page  2
the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund 
by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF, and SOUTH AFRICAN NATIONAL 
PARKS (the Recipient) a corporate body established by notice in the Gazette by the President of 
the Republic of South Africa (South Africa), and operating under the National Parks Act of 
South Africa, No. 57 of 1976;
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued in place 
on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
the Recipient and South Africa having satisfied themselves as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of Part A of the Project, and the Bank 
has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of Resolution 
No. 94-2 referred to above;
(D)
South Africa, through its letter of even date herewith, has agreed that the 
resources of the GEF Trust Fund approved for the financing of Part A of the Project be provided 
directly to the Recipient under the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and 
declaring, inter alia, that South Africa shall take all action necessary for the Recipient to carry 
out its obligations under this Agreement;
(E)
South Africa has also requested additional assistance from the resources of the 
GEF Trust Fund and, by a GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank and World Wide Fund for Nature - South Africa (WWF-SA) (the WWF-SA Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement), the Bank has agreed to make available to WWF-SA, a GEF Trust Fund Grant 
in an amount equivalent to four million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
4,400,000) to assist in financing Parts B and C of the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in such agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to extend the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement 
and the WWF-SA GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth 
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Page  3
Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) and 
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: “the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol “SDR” 
mean special drawing rights as valued by the International Monetary 
Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an implementing agency 
of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also 
include the Bank acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
Page  4
(vii)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: “Except as the 
Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations.”;
(viii)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation shall 
have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant would exceed the resources available for disbursement from the 
GEF.”;
(ix)
the first sentence of Section 10.01 is deleted; and
(x)
Section 10.04 is amended to read: “Any dispute arising out of or relating 
to this Agreement which is not settled by agreement of the parties shall 
be finally settled by arbitration in accordance with the UNCITRAL 
Arbitration Rules in force on the date of this Agreement. The place of 
Arbitration shall be Washington D.C. In the event of a conflict between 
the UNCITRAL arbitration rules and the terms of this Agreement, the 
terms of this Agreement shall govern.”.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“CFK” means Cape Floral Kingdom, the bio-geographical region, mainly located 
within the boundaries of the Western Cape Province of South Africa, which includes “fynbos” 
and allied ecosystems;
(b)
“Core Areas” means, with regard to the Proclamation of the Cape Peninsula 
National Park, as a national park under Section 2 B (1) (b) of the National Parks Act (as 
hereinafter defined), all the land in Schedule D previously held by the local authorities within the 
Cape Peninsula, which has been allocated to the Recipient pursuant to the Heads of Agreement in 
Respect of the Allocation of Local Authority Land in the Cape Peninsula Protected Natural 
Environment for the Purposes of Establishing a National Park
,
entered into between the Cape 
Metropolitan Council, the Cape Town Municipality, the South Peninsula Municipality and the 
Recipient;
(c)
“CPPNE” means the Cape Peninsula Protected Natural Environment, which is an 
area protected pursuant to South Africa’s Environment Conservation Act, No. 73 of 1989, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement;
(d)
“DEAT” means the Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism of South 
Page  5
Africa;
(e)
“EIS” means an environmental information system;
(f)
“Environmental Analysis” means an initial environmental impact assessment as 
defined by the South African Integrated Environment Management (IEM) guidelines (issued by 
the DEAT, 1992);
(g)
“Environmental Mitigation Plan” means the plan, adopted by the Recipient on 
October 30, 1997, providing for measures to be applied in mitigating the environmental impact of 
Project activities.
(h)
“National Parks Act” means the National Parks Act, No. 57 of 1976 of South 
Africa, as amended; 
(i)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization operating under the laws of 
South Africa;
(j)
“Project Implementation Plan” or “PIP” means the plan referred to paragraph 1 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement containing, inter alia, work plans, monitoring and performance 
indicators referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and procedures to be used 
for the purpose of implementing the Project, as they may be amended from time to time, in 
consultation with the Bank, and such term includes any schedules to such plan;
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and
(l)
“Subproject” means a project prepared and selected in accordance with the 
provisions of the WWF-SA GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, consisting of conservation 
activities in the Cape Peninsula and the Cape Floral Kingdom and to be financed under Part C of 
the Project.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 4,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Page  6
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of Part A of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate biodiversity conservation 
practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and, 
except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the 
Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Recipient 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Page  7
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Recipient shall carry on its business and operations, and otherwise 
conduct all its affairs, in accordance with sound professional, administrative, biodiversity 
Page  8
protection, cultural, ecological, economic, financial and land conservation practices, and in 
accordance with appropriate safety, health and environmental standards, acceptable to the Bank, 
and at all times under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff.
Section 5.02. The Recipient shall, at all times, operate and maintain its business, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, take all necessary 
remedial measures and make all necessary repairs thereof.
Section 5.03. The Recipient shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provisions acceptable to the Bank, for insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with reasonable practice to carry out its obligations under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.04. The Recipient shall promptly take all measures necessary to acquire, 
maintain, renew and otherwise exercise all rights, powers, privileges, registrations and franchises 
required for the proper conduct of its business and operations, and otherwise for its proper 
carrying out of all its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.05. The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have 
any fiduciary duty toward, or relationship with, the Recipient.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
South Africa or any other authority having jurisdiction over the Recipient shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Recipient, or for the 
suspension of any of its operations so as to affect materially and adversely its ability to perform 
any of its obligations under this Agreement or otherwise carry out its respective parts of the 
project, or any part thereof;
(b)
South Africa or any other authority shall have taken any action, including the 
enactment or issuance of legislation or regulations, which, in the opinion of the Bank, may 
adversely affect, prevent, or interfere with, the carrying out of the Project or the performance by 
the Recipient of any of its obligations under this Agreement;
(c)
the National Parks Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed, or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project, or any 
part thereof;
(d)
the Recipient shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or any 
action or proceeding shall have been taken by the Recipient or by others whereby any of the 
assets of the Recipient shall or may be distributed among its creditors; or
(e)
South Africa: (i) shall have been suspended from membership in or ceased to be 
a
member of the Bank; or (ii) shall have ceased to be a member of the International Monetary 
Page  9
Fund.
ARTICLE VII
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the effectiveness of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Proclamation, establishing the Cape Peninsula National Park, incorporating 
the Core Areas, has been published in the Gazette, in accordance with the provisions of the 
National Parks Act; and
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the WWF-SA Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Chief Executive of the Recipient is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
South Africa National Parks
P. O. Box 787
643 Leyds Street
Muckleneuk
Pretoria 0001, South Africa
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  10
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SOUTH AFRICAN NATIONAL PARKS
By /s/ Rodney Wagner
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Page  11
Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) Works
2,990,000
100% of local
expenditures
(2) Goods and 
520,000
100% of foreign
equipment
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’
820,000
100%
services
(4) Operating costs
       370,000
100%
            TOTAL
4,700,000
=========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods and services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means expenses incurred by the Recipient on account 
of environmental education activities under Part A.2 of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $250,000 may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after December 1, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works; (b) for goods under 
contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent; (c) services for consulting firms costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent; (d) services for individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; and (e) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for 
deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the 
portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) ensure the rehabilitation and sustainable 
conservation of the globally significant flora and related fauna of the Cape Peninsula, including 
surrounding marine ecosystems; and (ii) initiate strategic conservation planning  and 
conservation activities for the entire Cape Floral Kingdom.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A
:
Cape Peninsula National Park
1.
Invasive Alien Plant Control Program
Carrying out an integrated program to reduce the threat to indigenous biodiversity from 
invasive alien plants on the Cape Peninsula.
2.
Environmental Education and Public Information
(a)
Upgrading of special education centers within the Cape Peninsula National Park 
to cater for visitors and members of neighboring communities, and initiating an outreach program 
to communities in the Cape Town Metropolitan Area.
(b)
Carrying out a public information and communication campaign, targeting 
primarily the population in the Cape Town Metropolitan area.
3.
Fire Control and Management
Strengthening the fire protection and fire management capacity of the Recipient in the 
Cape Peninsula National Park and adjacent areas.
4.
Improved Tourist Infrastructure
Maintenance of footpaths and roads, and construction of minor gateways into the Cape 
Peninsula National Park.
5.
Capacity Building
(a)
Training of laborers in entrepreneurial skills in order to promote independent 
small scale enterprises undertaking the clearing of alien species, footpath maintenance and other 
park-related tasks.
(b)
Provision of training for the Recipient’s staff, to enable them to implement the 
Project more efficiently.
6.
Marine Protection Program
Page  13
Carrying out a study for the feasibility, with the related public consultation process, for 
incorporating the marine environment of the Cape Peninsula into the Cape Peninsula National 
Park, with the objective of maintaining marine biodiversity by reversing the over exploitation of 
certain species and combating general pollution threats.
7.
Knowledge Management
Upgrading and consolidation of the existing Environmental Information Systems of the 
Cape Peninsula, implementing a system for Monitoring and Evaluation, and carrying out a series 
of applied studies aimed at strengthening park management and operations.
Part B:
Strategic Planning for the Cape Floral Kingdom (CFK)
Preparation of a strategic action plan and investment program for the CFK.
Part C:
Table Mountain Fund
Support for the sustainable management on the Cape Peninsula through financing of 
Subprojects designed to assist in the conservation of the biological diversity of the Cape 
Peninsula, adjacent areas and the Cape Floral Kingdom.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  14
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Force Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing 
$1,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be carried 
out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Page  15
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services under Part A of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 
2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall, in carrying out the 
Project, apply the guidelines and procedures specified in the PIP and shall not amend the PIP or 
waive any provision thereof, which, in the opinion of the Bank, will materially or adversely 
Page  16
affect the implementation of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) not later than January 31, of each year, furnish to the 
Bank for approval the draft annual workplan for the Project; (ii) by March 31 of each year, 
furnish to the Bank the final annual workplan; and (iii) carry out the activities for the year in 
question on the basis of such work plan.
2.
The Recipient shall, commencing September 30, 1998, furnish to the Bank every six 
months progress reports on implementation of the Project.
3.
The Recipient shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under the terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about June 30, 2000, a report integrating inter
alia
:
(i) the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; (ii) the status of the 
Recipient’s participation in the development of the strategic plan for the Cape Floral Kingdom; 
and (iii) progress in developing entrepreneurial skills under Part A.5 (a) of the Project; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.
4.
The Recipient shall carry out the Environmental Mitigation Plan in accordance with the 
plan of action and timetable included in such plan.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
Performance Indicators
Key Performance Indicators
Monitoring and 
Supervision
Critical Assumptions and 
Risks
Page  17
Narrative Summary
Project Development 
Objectives
Rehabilitate and maintain 
indigenous terrestrial flora and 
fauna on the Cape Peninsula 
and marine conservation in 
immediately surrounding areas
No indigenous species added to 
the list of rare and/or threatened 
species (Red Data list). No 
additional plant species 
becoming extinct 
All invasive alien seed bearing 
plants removed by year 6. All 
natural areas previously infested 
with invasive aliens in 
maintenance phase by year 6
80% reduction of area burnt in 
uncontrolled wildfires by year 6
No infrastructural damage to 
private property outside the 
National Park
Implementation of an agreed 
marine protection plan
Reports from the Recipient, 
the Table Mountain Fund and 
NGOs.  Supervision visits
Exogenous political and economic 
events will not deter foreign and 
domestic visitors to come to the 
park
Project Outputs
(i)  Removal of alien invasive 
plants
(ii)  Enhanced environmental 
awareness among visitors and 
the general public
(iii)  Controlled regeneration of 
natural vegetation through fire
(iv)  Well maintained and 
sign-posted tourist 
infrastructure
(i) 2500 ha/year of land cleared 
of initial infestation of alien 
invasive species
(ii) Comprehensive visitor data 
maintained at controlled access 
points (including regular 
surveys).Seasonal visitor surveys 
of unmanned access points to the 
Park
(iii) At least 3% p.a. of total 
vegetation requiring a regular fire 
regime to be subject to controlled 
burning. By year 6, at least 20% 
of total vegetation requiring a 
regular fire regime to be subject 
to a controlled burning program.
(iv) Increased visitor use of trails 
and gateways
(i)  Recipient reports, TMF, 
NGO activity reports and site 
visits.
(ii)  Visitor statistics and 
survey reports
(iii) Recipient fire records
(iv)  Visitor surveys
(i)  There will be a unified, 
efficient national park authority 
implementing the conservation 
program on public land, and 
private land-owners will contract 
in
(ii)  Exogenous events will not 
significantly influence visitor rates
(iii)  Weather conditions will not 
change significantly. 
Controlled burning will be 
accepted by surrounding 
communities
(iv)  Changes in visitor rates and 
composition will not overwhelm 
the park.
Page  18
(v)  The emergence of 
entrepreneurs from 
disadvantaged groups capable 
of undertaking conservation 
work
(vi) Determine the feasibility of 
establishing a marine 
component to the National Park
(vii)  Enhanced knowledge 
about rational management of 
flora and fauna on and around 
the Peninsula
(v)  Share of conservation work 
cost out-sourced to entrepreneurs 
from the program reaching at 
least 50% by year 3 and 
remaining above this for the rest 
of the program
(vi) The proclamation of a 
marine national park surrounding 
the Cape Peninsula, if feasible, 
by year 5
(vii)  M&E, EIS and study 
results utilized by park 
management
(v)  Recipient contract 
records
(vi)  Public observance of 
regulations.
(vii)  Study reports and 
records of management 
decisions
(v)  Conservation work will be an 
attractive option in the private 
market for trained entrepreneurs
(vi)  Major pollution events will 
not threaten marine life.
(vii)  Management will have the 
resources to act on study 
proposals
Project Components
(i) Invasive alien species 
eradication
(ii)  Environmental education
(iii)  Enhanced fire 
management
(iv) Improved tourist 
infrastructure
(v) Capacity building among 
contract labor
(vi) Marine protection program
(vii) Knowledge management
(i)  Employment of contract labor 
reaching at least 400 new jobs 
created by year 3
(ii) Development of 30 
customized resource programs 
for target audiences in adjacent 
communities by year 3
(iii)  Engagement of stand-by fire 
fighting personnel.
(iv) Contracting of labor 
sufficient to undertake 
improvement works
(v) Training of independent 
contractors for alien clearing, 
recruited from adjacent 
disadvantaged communities; 30 
in year 1, 20 in years 2 and 3
(vi)  Delineation and 
sign-posting of park, if feasible, 
achieved by year 6
(vii) Contracted suppliers of 
M&E system and consolidated 
EIS appointed  within one year. 
At least 8 adaptive research 
programs, focusing on project 
priorities, initiated by year 2
(i) Annual reports from the 
Recipient, the Table 
Mountain Fund and NGOs. 
Supervisory consultations 
with NGOs and labor engaged 
in the conservation efforts
(ii)  As above plus beneficiary 
evaluations
(iii) Recipient and 
contractors’ fire records
iv) Recipient annual reports 
and on-site visits
(v) Recipient records and 
interviews with entrepreneurs
(vi)  Legal documents.  Public 
announcements
(vii)  M&E reports, EIS 
outputs, study proposals, 
decision records and study 
reports
(i) & (ii) Agreement is reached on 
establishing unified Recipient 
management control over the park 
area
(iv)  As for activities (i) & (ii)
(v)  No intervening labor disputes
(vi)  Consensus on the desirability 
and boundaries of a marine 
national park
(vii)  Sufficient interest among 
academics and NGOs, and 
funding from the TMF
Page  19
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Part A of the Project;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the  Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into the  Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
Page  20
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the  Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the 
eligible, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
Page  21
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph  6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
