                                 Document o f
                               The World Bank




                                                  Report No.: 52793




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                       REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA

       CAPE PENINSULA BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
                        (TF035923, TF028956)


                                January 29,2010




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group
Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = South Apican Rand (ZAR)
2009                    US$1.oo                  ZAR8.98
2008                    US$l.oo                  ZAR7.61
2007                    US$1.oo                  ZAR6.86
2006                    US$1.oo                  ZAR6.11
Abbreviations and Acronyms


AB1             C.A .P.E. Agulhas Biodiversity      EPWP         Extended Public Works Program
                Initiative                                       (formerly Poverty Relief
BotSoc          Botanical Society o f South Africa               Program)
CAPE            Cape Action Plan for the            FFEM         French GEF
                Environment (Strategy and Action FFI             Flora and Fauna International
                Plan 1998-2000)                     GEF          Global EnvironmentalFacility
C.A.P.E.        Cape Action for People and the      GoSA         Government o f South Africa
                Environment (Implementation         ICR          ImplementationCompletion Report
                Program)                            TMF          Table Mountain Fund
CapeNature      Western Cape Nature                 TMNP         Table Mountain National Park
                Conservation Board                  UNDP         United Nations Development
CBD             Convention on Biodiversity                       Program
ccu             C.A.P.E. Co-ordinationUnit          WCNCB        Western Cape Nature
CEPF            Critical Ecosystem Partnership                   Conservation Board, CapeNature
                Fund                                WfW          Working for Water Program
CIC             C.A.P.E. Implementation             WWF-SA       World Wildlife Fund for Nature
                Committee                                        (South Africa)
CFWCFK          Cape Floristic RegiodCape Floral ICR             ImplementationCompletion
                Kingdom                                          Report
CPNP            Cape Peninsula National Park        IEG          Independent EvaluationGroup
                (now Table Mountain National        IEGWB        Independent EvaluationGroup
                Park)                                            (World Bank)
CPU              Conservation Planning Unit o f the IEMS          Integrated Environmental and
                 Western Cape Nature                             Management System
                 Conservation Board                 KPI          Key Performance Indicator
DEAET            Eastern Cape: Department of        MCM           Chief Directorate of Marine and
                 Economic Affairs, Environment                    Coastal Management in DEAT
                 and Tourism                         MoU          Memorandum of Understanding
DEAT             National Department of             MPA           Marine Protected Area
                 EnvironmentalAffairs and           PPAR          Project Performance Assessment
                 Tourism                                          Report
DWAF             National Department o f Water       SANParks     South Africa National Parks
                 Affairs and Forestry                SANBIMBI     South African National
                                                                  Biodiversity Institute, formerly
                                                                  National Botanical Institute
Fiscal Year
Government:             April 1 - March 3 1


Director-General, Evaluation                             :   Mr. Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)      :   Ms. Cheryl Gray
Manager, Sector Evaluation Division                      :   Ms. Monika Huppi
Task Manager                                             :   Ms.'Lauren Kelly
Consultant                                               :   Mr. Ethan Amheim
IEGWB Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.

About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Banks work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and proceduresthrough the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Banks lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those
that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for
which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government,
and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
in local offices as appropriate.
        Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
     IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additional information is available on the IEGWB website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loanlcredit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the governmenf and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation,and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                                                          ...
                                                                          111




Contents

                ................................................................................................................
Principal Ratings                                                                                                                                       v

Key Staff Responsible........................................................................................................                           v

Preface    ..............................................................................................................................               ..
                                                                                                                                                       vi1


Summary           .................................................................................................................... i......ix
Background             ........................................................................................................................         1

Project Objectives. Design and Implementation Arrangements                                                       ...................................    2

           Objective ..................................................................................................................                 2
           Components.............................................................................................................. 2
          Implementation Arrangements .................................................................................                                 4
EvaluationFindings                  .....,.....................................................................................................         5

           Relevance o Objectives ........................................................................................... 5
                      f
           Relevance o Design.................................................................................................
                      f                                                                                                                                 5
           Efficacy ....................................................................................................................                7
           Efficiency ................................................................................................................                 14
Monitoring and Evaluation                        .............................................................................................         16

           M&E Design .......................................................................................................... 16
           M&E Implementation: Putting an Environmental Management System in Place 16
           Bank Performance .................................................................................................                          17
           Safeguards ..............................................................................................................                   19
           Risk to Development Effectiveness .........................................................................                                 20
           Lessons Learne ......................................................................................................                       21
              .
Annex A Basic Data Sheet                        ..............................................................................................         23

              .
Annex B Table Mountain Fund Programme Portfolio                    ...............................................                                     25

Annex C.Persons Consulted (TMF) ..............................................................................                                         31




This report was prepared by Lauren Kelly. Evaluation Officer and Ethan Arnheim. Consultant. who
assessed the project in December 2007 . The report was edited by Bill Hurlbut. Rose Wairimu Gachina and
Romayne D. Pereira provided administrativesupport.
                                                     iv


Figure
Figure 1: Project instruments and funding mechanisms................................................... 13

Table
Table 1: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project ..............................................   4
                                                   V



Principal Ratings
                                       /CR*                    ICR Re view*                       PPAR

Outcome                Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory
Institutional          Substantial                 Substantial                            -   .
Development Impact**
Risk to Development                                           -                Negligible to Low
Outcome
Sustainability-        Highly Likely               Highly Likely                          -
Bank Performance       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance   Satisfactory                Satisfactory                Satisfactory
  The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The
ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verifj the findings of the ICR.
**AS of July 1, 2006, Institutional Development Impact is assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
*"As of July 1, 2006, Sustainability has been replaced by Risk to Development Outcome. As the scales are
different, the ratings are not directly comparable.


Key Staff Responsible
Project            Task ManagedLeader               Division Chief/              Country Director
                                                    Sector Director
Appraisal               Francois Falloux                Cynthia C. Cook               Pamela Cox
Completion             Christopher Warner              Richard G. Scobey            Ritva S. Reinikka
                                                vii


Preface
        This i s the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Cape
Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project (GEF TF-2832 1, TF-28322, TF-28956) for
which a grant equivalent to US$12.3 million from the Global Environmental Facility
(GEF) was approved on February 17, 1998, and became effective on June 1, 1998. The
project was closed on June 30,2005 after a 12 month extension. At appraisal, the project
cost was estimated at US$91.2 million, o f which the GEF contribution was US$12.3
million, international co-financing from the French GEF (FFEM) was U S $ l million and
total domestic (government and other) contribution was US$77.9 million. Actual project
costs were US$lO5.67 million. Actual total domestic contributions (government and
other) exceeded the appraisal target by US$14.12 million (118.1%) and international co-
financing exceeded the appraisal target by US$0.46 million. However, US$137,000 o f
the GEF grant remained undisbursed.

        The findings o f this assessment are based on an Independent Evaluation Group
mission to South Africa in December 2007 where the team met with national and local
Government officials, the project implementing agency (the South African National
Biodiversity Institute), Table Mountain Park and Table Mountain Fund staff, and project
beneficiaries. Since approximately US$5 million o f the US$12.3 million GEF grant was
disbursed as equity investment to the Table Mountain Fund managed by WWF South
Africa, IEG worked with the Fund Manager prior to the mission to contact the 8 1
grantees that received project finance from the Fund. IEG was able to correspond by
email or phone with 50 o f the 81 grantees that received finance from the Table Mountain
Fund. Based on a sample o f grant investments selected to ensure representative coverage
across the six areas o f grant eligibility, IEG conducted site visits to 11 projects. A l i s t o f
all grantees, including the projects assessed, i s included in Annex B. The mission built on
a review o f project documentation; information available in the project files and archive
documents; a review o f internal and external literature; and interviews with Bank staff.
This assessment also draws on interviews and site visits conducted in South Africa as
input for IEG's Global Program Review o the Global Invasive Species Program (IEG,
                                              f
2009).

       Following standard IEG procedures, copies o f the draft PPAR were sent to the
relevant government officials and agencies for their review and comments. However, no
comments were received.
                                              ix


Summary
         The Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project was the first GEF project
in South Africa. I t s objective was to "ensure rehabilitation and sustainable protection o f
the globally significant flora, and related fauna, o f the Cape Peninsula including
surrounding marine ecosystems, and to initiate conservation planning and conservation
activities for the entire Cape Floral Kingdom." The project sought to achieve this
objective through the implementation o f three main components: the establishment o f a
national park, support for sub-projects administered through a biodiversity conservation
fund, and assistance towards the development and implementation o f the strategy for the
conservation o f the Cape. The overall outcome rating o the Cape Penirisula Biodiversity
                                                           f
Conservation Project is Satisfactory.

         Ensuring the rehabilitation and sustainable protection o f the Cape Floral Kingdom
i s a highly relevant global environmental objective. South Africa ranks as the third
most biologically diverse country in the world and it i s the only country to have within i t s
borders an entire plant kingdom: the Cape Floral Kingdom. The Cape area in particular
has the highest plant species diversity o f any similar-sized temperate or tropical region in
the world. The Cape Peninsula i s home to over a quarter o f the plant species found in the
entire Cape Floral Kingdom. The region has more than 9,600 plant species, o f which
close to 1,400 are endangered or close to extinction. South Africa's coastal habitat i s
home to 11,000 species o f marine animals, o f which 3,500 are endemic to the Cape Floral
Region.

        Project design relevance i s rated substantial in so far as, in addition to
biodiversity conservation, it sought to promote opportunities for job creation and
strengthening o f entrepreneurial skill to achieve i t s very relevant environmental
objective. However design could have been strengthened by building greater public
awareness and consensus for some o f the more sensitive elements o f the project, such as
the removal o f Pines and the Himalayan Tahr from Table Mountain National Park. More
attention could also have been given during the project design stage to the development
o f sustainable alternative livelihoods for those communities affected by the creation and
declaration o f marine protected areas. Lastly, project design could have built in better
mechanisms to enable the incorporation o f emerging research findings into ongoing
project implementation, especially with regards to invasive alien clearing and
rehabilitation efforts.

        The project substantially achieved i t s global environmental objective. The
project aimed to ensure the rehabilitation and sustainable protection o f the globally
significant flora and fauna o f the Cape Peninsula. B y removing 85 percent o f the invasive
alien species in Table Mountain National Park, the project set the stage for the natural
regeneration o f the underlying Fynbos, the primary flora identified with the Cape Floral
Kingdom. Although further and consistent maintenance i s required to assure the steady
reclamation o f the invaded area, the presence o f strong government commitment and
international NGO presence sends a positive signal that maintenance w i l l be continued.
Native terrestrial fauna were restored, albeit at the expense o f a non-indigenous,
endangered species. Meanwhile, one o f the reasons that the assessment found
                                              X



performance to be less than highly satisfactory, was the imbalance in attention to the
rehabilitation and sustainable protection o f the marine habitats. Nevertheless, the three
major project components were implemented in a satisfactory manner.

         Overall Efficiency o f the project i s rated Substantial. A study commissioned by
South African National Parks (SANParks) to assess the economic impact o f the Park
found that the operation o f the Park had a significant macroeconomic effect on Cape
Town, the Western Cape, and South Africa. It also found that several efficiency gains had
been achieved as a result o f the declaration and unification o f the Park and the transfer o f
i t s management to SANParks including a reduction o f duplication o f overheads and
services; personnel rationalization; increased ability to leverage funding; and a freeing up
o f City resources. W h i l e the number o f people employed in the operation and
management o f the Park decreased, investment in the park directly created and sustained
between 300-600 jobs.

        The decision to channel project funds through an already existing fully
operational trust fund in South Africa - the Table Mountain Fund - was a highly efficient
aspect o f project design. The decision eliminated the initial costs necessary for
establishing such a fund, including i t s administrative and allocative mechanisms. Project
costs however were 16 percent higher than estimated at appraisal while the target for the
rehabilitation objective (removal o f all invasive alien species) was scaled back to 85
percent removal by project close. This latter objective was partly affected by a large fire
(2000) that resulted in increased vegetation growth patterns making clearing more
difficult than originally planned. The fire and the subsequent change in vegetation
contributed to the project's request to extend the project by one year. The extension was
also requested in response to the depreciation o f the rand during implementation.

         Monitoring and Evaluation was a substantial part o f project design and
implementation. The project supported the development o f an environmental
management information system -the first o f i t s kind in the country - which was later
piloted in three other national parks with the intention o f eventually rolling it out across
all o f South Africa. Data collected by SANParks through this system has been utilized in
various ways to enhance management o f the park.

         Both Bank and Borrower performance were Satisfactory. Project preparation
benefited from a PDF-B grant that financed studies executed by the South African
National Parks Board. These studies provided baseline information for the conservation
activities to be undertaken by the project. Bank supervision maintained focus on the
financial sustainability o f the park and worked closely with Table Mountain Fund
management to revise i t s investment strategy during a critical period. The Government o f
South Africa fully owned the project and supported i t s implementation through the
passage o f timely and effective conservation-related legislation. Both implementing
agencies, WWF-SA and SANParks, performed satisfactorily. However, performance o f
the latter could have been enhanced through more effective cooperation with community
members.

     The risk to development outcome o f this project i s negligible to low. The Table
Mountain National Park i s now financially sustainable, it i s protected through legislation;
                                              xi


its environmental education program has been mainstreamed within the curriculum o f the
provincial Department o f Education, and new legislation requires effective wildfire
management by the Park and other agencies. The Fund i t s e l f is outperforming targets for
project funding and has provided extensive catalytic resources for community based
conservation projects that have attracted a high level o f co-finance. The C A P E strategy i s
n o w under implementation and funded through several projects, including t w o GEF
projects, the Cape Action Plan for the Environment Implementation Program and the
Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative. Potential risks requiring mitigation in the future include
the need for continued financing and support for the maintenance o f the areas cleared o f
invasive alien species, continued urban expansion, and unanticipated security issues that
arose during project implementation that could affect tourism in the park.

Lessons Learned

         I n countrieswhere the World Bank does not have an active lending program,
it may consider the benefits o f implementinggrant financing from the Global
Environment Facility, i f available, in a manner that integrates global environmental
and poverty alleviation objectives. Landscape restoration activities, such as invasive
alien clearing, offer opportunities for both conservation o f native flora and fauna and j o b
creation and entrepreneurial skills development, if the project i s designed to target
disadvantaged communities. If designed correctly, members o f communities trained to
clear I A S in key biodiversity sites can also engage in annual maintenance, however
recurrent funding i s required and few countries apart from South Africa have yet to
assign a high national priority to the activity.

        Efforts to restore native flora and fauna should take into account both the
level of public awareness and competing public values concerning invasive alien
species. Biodiversity values will need t o be balanced against other public use values such
as recreation, as in the case o f the decision t o remove the pine trees from Table Mountain
National Park. A decision to eradicate one alien species in favor o f another native one -
such was the case concerning the removal o f the Himalayan tahr in favor o f the
Klipspringer - should be vetted publicly and options other than eradication should clearly
be considered. Public consultation and consensus building campaigns can help t o
determine the optimal level o f eradication o f local flora and fauna that will benefit the
biodiversity agenda and secure community support for local conservation efforts.

         Projects that finance research, whether basic or applied, should include a
mechanism to adapt research findings into ongoing implementation o f
complementary project activities. A heavy investment was made in invasive alien
species clearing and rehabilitation, both through a subcomponent o f this project and
through several applied research grants funded by the Table Mountain Fund. This
research was published and disseminated, but not systematically incorporated into the
ongoing overall program. A mechanism was also needed t o channel information arising
from implementation to update the Table Mountain Fund's grant proposal processes t o
align it with program needs - i.e. so that the Fund could effectively serve as a think tank
for on-the-ground project implementation.
                                            xii


        Managing a small grant mechanism for biodiversity conservation requires an
investment in project development to assure that the fund as a whole i s geared
toward achieving its programmatic (and landscape) goals. Project development
necessarily involves thinking about partnerships, often at the design stage, since the right
combination o f actors will be needed to apply and adapt research beyond the small pilot
applications supported by a fund such as the TMF. A range o f partners should be brought
into the project development process, including local land use decision makers in the
government and/or conservation agencies, community based organizations and NGOs
that can provide follow-on resources, universities interested in furthering the research
aim, donors, and the private sector. Since applied research will need to be adapted and
scaled-up, getting buy-in from those key constituents that are charged with land-use
decisions up-front can help to prioritize grant approval processes and can contribute to
enhanced sustainability o f the outcomes o f successful interventions.




                                                                     Vinod Thomas
                                                                    Director-General
                                                                         Evaluation
                                             1


Background

        The Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project was the first GEF project
in South Africa. Although not approved until 1998, World Bank staff began to discuss the
concept with members o f the Government o f South Africa in 1994, almost immediately
after the transition from apartheid. Interviews with members o f South Africa's
biodiversity community and with World Bank staff revealed a very high level o f
enthusiasm surrounding the opportunity to work in a country that hosts an entire plant
kingdom, the Cape Floral Kingdom, where lessons on ecosystem management and
landscape planning were abundant, but where information sharing was previously limited
due to the political climate.

        The World Bank's engagement with South Africa's Department o f Environmental
Affairs and Tourism (DEAT), launched more than a decade ago, set the stage for an
environmental partnership that went beyond discussion o f the design and implementation
arrangements o f a traditional biodiversity conservation project. Rather, South Africa held
the view that environmental management can contribute to poverty alleviation by
providing jobs (for example, through nature based tourism), improve public health via
pollution abatement and protect and maintain a natural heritage which in the case o f
South Africa, i s o f high global significance. Against the backdrop o f the bulk o f the
Bank's assistance for biodiversity conservation in the Africa region at the time, this
outlook represented an advancement in the way the Bank engaged i t s clients in this area,
particularly with respect to the use o f GEF funds.

         The Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project (1998-2006) was designed
to support ongoing national conservation and livelihood initiatives on and around the
Cape Peninsula and to provide for a strategic planning process to identify priorities and
develop an action plan for the Cape Floral Region. The Cape Peninsula encompasses the
Peninsula Mountain chain that stretches over an area o f some 470 km2and i s known to be
one o f the most biodiverse areas in the world: the peninsula has more than 2,285 species
o f plants (more than New Zealand) and o f these, 90 are considered endemic.

        One o f the preliminary lines o f inquiry pursued by this PPAR was whether the
GEF funding was needed in a country and project setting where the domestic contribution
far exceeded the grant finance. Given the magnitude o f the task at hand, GEF funds are
designed to catalyze support, not supplement existing funds. The PPAR found that the
GEF finance was critical on two fronts: on (1) promoting and financing the geographic
extension o f the conservation activities, from within and around the perimeter o f the table
mountain national park to the cape floral region as a whole and (2) fast-tracking the
official creation o f the national park - a condition o f effectiveness o f the project that
helped to resolve access issues related to land ownership on the Peninsula and merge
management under a single conservation authority. Although afforded some level o f
protection prior to the project - the Government o f South Africa had declared the Cape
Peninsula a Protected Natural Environment (CPPNE) in 1989 under the E n v i r o q e n t
Conservation Act - the proclamation o f a National Park facilitated the consolidation o f a
conservation area that had previously been managed by 14 different national, provincial,
and local government authorities and was also partly privately owned. In fact, following
                                             2


effectiveness, some 187 staff were transferred from the municipal authorities to
SANParks as part o f the consolidation effort.

        Following implementation o f the Cape Biodiversity Conservation Project, the
World Bank has supported a number o f full and medium size GEF financed projects in
South Africa for nature conservation, renewable energy, and the phase-out o f toxic
chemicals, including a follow-on operation to this one, approved in 2004, the C.A.P.E.
Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development Project, which continues to
support the environmental and development outcomes achieved through the Cape
Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project thus helping to assure the sustainability o f
its development outcomes.

Project Objectives, Design and Implementation
Arrangements

OBJECTIVE

1.        The objectives o f the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project were to
(1) ensure rehabilitation and sustainable protection o f the globally significant flora and
related fauna o f the Cape Peninsula including surrounding marine ecosystems, and to (2)
initiate conservation planning and conservation activities for the entire Cape Floral
Kingdom. This PPAR reviews the achievements o f the project against these two related
objectives.

COMPONENTS

2.        The project was designed with three main components. The first component, to
(1) facilitate the establishment and strengthen initial management o f a new Cape
Peninsula National Park, was implemented to achieve the project's first objective o f
rehabilitating and ensuring the sustainable protection o f the Cape Peninsula. The second
component, which (2) supplemented the resources o f the existing Table Mountain Fund
to expand NGO-managed community-based conservation activities supported both
objectives by directing resources towards the new national park and throughout the Cape
Floral Kingdom. The third component was directed solely at achieving the second
objective. The third component (3) supported the preparation o f the first comprehensive
conservation strategy for the entire Cape Floral Kingdom. Detailed description o f the
activities financed by these three project components follow:

3.        Component 1: Facilitate the establishment and strengthen initial
management o f a new Cape Peninsula National Park. (Costs at appraisal were
estimated at US$76.4 million, including US$7 million GEF funding; actual total costs
were US$ 85.05 million including US$6.3 million o f GEF funding). This component
entailed the creation and initial management o f a new national park covering about 300
km2 o f the Cape Peninsula. The component financed the core costs o f park staff and its
initial capital investment. It also supported several aspects o f park maintenance, including
invasive alien plant control, environmental education, fire control and management,
                                             3


improved tourist infrastructure, capacity building knowledge management and a marine
protection program. These activities are described below:

       (i)The Invasive Alien Plant Control Programme. Accelerated clearing o f
          invasive alien species (particularly acacia and pine trees) and annual follow-
           up maintenance using labor intensive techniques t o facilitate natural
           regeneration o f indigenous species.

        i)
       ( i Environmental Education. Upgrade special centers in the park to support an
           increase in tourism, as well as to promote the participation o f disadvantaged
           communities (on-site) .

       (iii) Control and Management. Based o n the reported success o f a then
           Fire
           recently contracted helicopter (on stand-by) during the fire season for the
           northern part o f the Cape Peninsula, support the contracting o f a second
           helicopter (on stand-by), in combination with stand-by labor groups, t o
           maintain and enhance fire control and management capacity in the park for
           controlled burning programs and wildfire control. Specific quantitative
           indicators associated with this objective required an 80% reduction o f area
           burnt in uncontrolled wildfires by year 6 and also by year 6, at least 20% o f
           total vegetation requiring a regular fire regime would be subject t o a
           controlled burning program.

       (iv) Improved Tourist Infiastructure. Support the creation o f minor gateways (as
            opposed to major gateways that offer a financial rate o f return) and the
            creation and maintenance o f footpaths.

       (v) Capacity Building. Build capacity among a corps o f independent contractors
           who would later take on alien species clearing, footpath maintenance, and
           other park-related tasks o n a competitive basis. A target o f at least 50 percent
           was set for the share o f conservation work outsourced to entrepreneurs by
           year 3 (and remaining above this for the rest o f the program).

       (vi) Marine Protection Program. Maintain biodiversity and functional marine
            ecosystems by incorporating the Peninsula's marine environment into the
            terrestrial national park. Incorporation o f the marine area into the park would
            specifically aim t o halt and reverse threats such as over exploitation o f rock
            lobster, abalone, alikreukel, and certain line fish species, and combat
            pollution from nutrient loading, sewage, industrial effluents, o i l spills, and
            storm water. A feasibility study would be conducted t o incorporate the
            marine environment into the park, identification o f boundaries and legal
            requirements, public relations and media efforts.

       (vii) Knowledge Management. Studies on issues related to park management, the
             research for which would be derived associated with the M&E system o f the
             project. Study topics were to include: identification o f legal mechanisms for
             securing conservation control o f land; land use planning in an urban
             interface; analysis o f visitor use patterns; impacts o f management actions o n
                                                       4


               surface hydrology; cost-benefit analysis o f alien plant control methods;
               restoration o f transformed habitats; identification o f new biological control
               agents; and a feasibility study for control o f the Himalayan tahr.

4.       Component 2: Expand NGO-managed community-based conservation
activities in support o f a new national park and throughout the Cape Floral
Kingdom by supplementingthe capital resources of the Table Mountain Fund
operated by WWF-SA. (Costs at appraisal were estimated at US$13.0 million; Actual
costs were US$18.75 million, including US$7 million capital, o f which US$5 million was
GEF finance, and associated land donations/purchases for an estimated market value o f
U S $ 6 million).

5.        Component 3: Support the preparation o f the first comprehensive
conservation strategy for the entire Cape Floral Kingdom (Costs at appraisal was
estimated at U S $ l .lmillion; actual costs were U S $ l . 8 million. All costs for this
component were supplied through GEF finance). This component, managed by WWF-
SA, supported the development o f a long-term strategy to ensure the conservation o f the
Cape Floral Kingdom and adjacent marine ecosystems, and to prepare a five year
investment program focused on strategic priorities. It addressed for focal areas:
terrestrial biodiversity, marine biodiversity and coastal zone management, institutional,
legal and policy factors, and financial, economic and social aspects.

IMPLEMENTATION
      ARRANGEMENTS

6.       The project was implemented by two organizations, South African National
Parks (SANParks) and WWF-South Africa. SANParks was charged with the
implementation o f all the activities associated with achieving the project's first objective,
by managing the establishment o f a new Cape Peninsula National Park, later named the
Table Mountain Park. WWF-SA was responsible for ensuring the achievement o f the
second objective. WWF-SA coordinated the development o f the conservation Strategy
for the Cape Floral Kingdom. WWF-SA also manages the Table Mountain Fund which
financed conservation activities financed by the project directed both at sustaining the
Park and the surrounding Cape Floral Kingdom.

Table 1: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project
Development Objectives                             Components                   Implementing Institution
Rehabilitate and maintain indigenous terrestrial   Cape Peninsula    National   SANParks
flora and fauna on the Cape Peninsula and marine   Park
conservation in immediately surrounding areas.

Rehabilitate and maintain indigenous terrestrial   Table Mountain Fund          WWF-South A f r i c a
flora and fauna on the Cape Peninsula and marine
conservation in immediately surrounding areas.

Development o f a conservation strategy for the    Strategic Planning for the   Coordinated by WWF-SA
Cape Floral kingdom, o f which the Cape            CFK
Peninsula forms part.
                                                            5


Evaluation Findings

RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES

Relevance o f the Global Environmental Objective (GEO)

7.        The objective o f ensuring rehabilitation and sustainable protection o f the globally
significant flora and related fauna, including the surrounding marine environment, o f the
Cape Peninsula, and to initiate conservation planning and conservation activities for the
entire Cape Floral Kingdom was and remains a highly relevant global environmental
objective (GEO). South Africa ranks as the third most biologically diverse country in the
world and it i s the only country to have within i t s borders an entire plant kingdom: the
Cape Floral Kingdom. The Cape area in particular has the highest plant species diversity
o f any similar-sized temperate or tropical region in the world. The Cape Peninsula i s
home to over a quarter o f the plant species found in the entire Cape Floral Kingdom. The
region has more than 9,600 plant species, o f which close to 1,400 are endangered or close
to extinction. South Africa's coastal habitat i s home to 11,000 species o f marine animals,
o f which 3,500 are endemic to the Cape Floral Region.

RELEVANCE OF DESIGN

8.       The relevance o f design i s rated substantial. A stand alone World Bank
implemented GEF project - it was not blended with IBRDADA finance - project design
was in line with the overall development strategy for South Africa at the time the project
was approved and remains relevant today.

9.        Although there was no formal CAS in place at the time o f project approval, the
project was presented to the Board at the same time the Government o f South Africa
approved the first World Bank lending operation since 1966, the Industrial
Competitivenessand Job Creation Project,' which outlined (through a Memorandum to
the President) the strategic focus o f the Bank's program in South Africa at that time. Four
priority areas were identified: (1) growth and macroeconomic stability, (2) poverty
alleviation, (3) capacity building and (4) regional issues. The Cape Peninsula
Biodiversity Conservation Project was designed to contribute to the first three priority
areas. The establishment and strengthening o f the Table Mountain National Park would
contribute to economic growth by spurring increased tourism. Disadvantaged
communities would benefit from direct employment opportunities inside the Park (the
project targeted a 400 person beneficiary group) and through indirect activities generated
by increased tourism. Capacity would be strengthened though resources earmarked for
the training o f small-scale entrepreneurs.

10.     Although IBRD continues to engage only to a limited extent with South Africa -
mainly through Technical Assistance and Economic and Sector Work -- the Bank's GEF

1. The World Bank extended eleven loans for a total o f (then) US$242 million to South Africa between 1951-1666.
Characteristic o f this lending period, the Bank assisted South Africa with projects that helped expand the country's rail
and harbor systems, together with electricity generation and transmission.
                                                    6


program features a portfolio that integratesjob creation and poverty reduction into i t s
conservation projects. An IEG Country Assistance Strategy Completion Report Review
(CASCRR) for FY2000-FY2006 found that Bank assistance during this period
contributed little to outcomes with respect to employment generating growth. This
assessment found, however that this project's design paid attention to employment
generation opportunities and entrepreneurial skills creation especially amongst
disadvantaged communities, but agrees that the small scale o f the operation could not
have contributed to overall growth.

11.       Although substantially relevant, there were some shortcomings in design which
were identified through interviews conducted during the PPAR mission. There appears to
have been an imbalance in the attention and resources dedicated to addressing threats
associated with rehabilitating the terrestrial flora as opposed to the marine systems. This
i s in part due to the fact that project preparation was informed by several years o f
extensive research on terrestrial IAS identification and control conducted by the
University o f Cape Town in association with the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research (CSIR) and terrestrial IAS eradication was already underway through the
Working for Water Program.' However, considering that by one estimate some 30,000
people along South Africa's coast rely on sustained fisheries for their livelihoods, more
attention to the impact o f the demarcation and enforcement o f the marine protected areas
(and the development o f alternative livelihoods) was warranted.

12.      Project design could have also been strengthened by building in a public
awareness campaign prior to implementation that could have sought community
consensus on such sensitive issues as the removal o f pines and the removal o f the
Himalayan tahr. Lastly, although invasive alien species were identified as the biggest
threat to the terrestrial biodiversity o f the Cape Peninsula at appraisal, over the course o f
project implementation, a growing crime rate threatened the sustainability o f the gains
being made by enhancing the management o f the park.

13.      The overall relevance o f this project i s substantial. The project's objectives were
highly relevant from the point o f view o f conserving global biodiversity. However, as a
World Bank implementedproject, the design o f the project could have been more
relevant if some o f the risks associated with sustainable livelihoods, particularly in
relation to the marine protected areas, were better taken into account. The project could
have also conceived a public relations strategy in anticipation o f the removal o f the
invasive fauna and flora (specifically, the Himalayan tahr and the pines). Apportioning a
vast amount o f the resources towards invasive alien species clearing to rehabilitate the
park was a relevant design decision at project conception, however increasing security
concerns over the l i f e o f the project threatened to weaken revenues from tourism which
over time, if not addressed, could threaten the sustainability o f the Park (the first
objective o f this project).


* The Working for Water (WfW) programme, launched in 1995 and administered through the Department
of Water Affairs and Forestry, works in partnership with local communities, to whom i t providesjobs, and
also with Government departments including the Departments o f EnvironmentalAffairs and Tourism,
Agriculture, and Trade and Industry, provincial departments o f agriculture, conservation and environment,
research foundations and private companies.
                                                   7

EFFICACY

14.      As presented in the first section o f this review, this project had two main
objectives: (1) ensure rehabilitation and sustainable protection o f the globally significant
flora and related fauna o f the Cape Peninsula including surrounding marine ecosystems,
and to (2) initiate conservation planning and conservation activities for the entire Cape
Floral Kingdom.

15.        The project substantially achieved i t s first objective o f ensuring the
rehabilitation and sustainable protection o f globally significant flora and related fauna o f
the Cape Peninsula. The specific activities put in place to achieve this aim were the
creation o f a national park and support for i t s effective management and support provided
to the already existing Table Mountain Fund to expand conservation activities in and
around the park.

The Table Mountain National Park

16.      The project supported the creation and initial management o f a new national park
covering about 300 km2o f the Cape Peninsula, the Table Mountain National Park.3IEG
held several meetings with SANPARK managers and staff and conducted site visits
within and around the park to review project achievement and the current status o f park
management. IEG found that the project was successful in establishing the foundations
for sustainable management and operation o f the Park and the globally significant
biodiversity contained within. GEF finance included support for several aspects o f park
maintenance, including invasive alien plant control, environmental education, fire control
and management, improved tourist infrastructure, capacity building knowledge
management, and a marine protection program

 17.     Invasive Alien Plant Control on the Cape Peninsula. The primary flora
associated with the Cape Flora Region i s Fynbos, or "fine bush" in Afrikaans. About 40%
o f project finance was directed towards addressing the underlying threat to biological
diversity in the Cape Floral Kingdom, namely the spread o f invasive alien species (IAS),
in particular the Acacia Cyclops and Acacia Seligma. The specific aim o f the six-year
IAS clearing program was to remove the entire infestation o f woody, seed-bearing alien
invasive plants in the newly designated national park. However, shortly after mid-term,
this original objective was deemed to have been "unrealistic" and the target was revised
downwards to 85 percent. As explained in the ICR, the unrealistic targets set did not take
into account the difficulty o f reaching invasive strands that were either at high altitude, or
that were deemed to be too dense, and therefore too time consuming or cost-ineffective to
clear. Moreover, a large fire that occurred in 2000, around project mid-term, increased
the area that needed to be cleared.

18.     The design o f this activity was based on work already underway through the
Working for Water Program, which had financed approximately 1000 ha o f clearing in
the park prior to the project. Under that program, twenty-two developmental contractors

 Former South African President, Nelson Mandela, proclaimed the establishment o f the Cape Peninsula
National Park on Environment Day, M a y 29, 1998.
                                                         8


from disadvantaged communities were trained in alien species clearing techniques by the
University o f Stellenbosch's Center for Entrepreneurship. The I A S component o f the
GEF project sought to extend training and opportunities to a greater number o f
disadvantaged communities and set the goal that by year 3, 50% o f alien clearing work
would be outsourced to contractors from disadvantaged communities: 30 contractors
would be trained in year 1,20 in years 2 and 3 with at least 400 jobs created by year 3.4

19.       Although the quantitative employment targets were surpassed for this activity,
several aspects o f the contractor program require further consideration if a similar
program were to be repeated in a future project. For example, the project introduced a
contractor scheme which paid workers for pre-defined pieces o f work. Workers
interviewed for this assessment in the Red Hill community were concerned that wages
paid o n t h i s basis were not consistent with standard minimum wage requirements. In
addition, the piecemeal contractual approach did not offer j o b security. IEG understands
that the approach was designed in a way that targeted disadvantaged community
members and that the wages set were designed to dissuade competition on the open
market. As indicated in the ICR, 400 jobs were created to assist with the eradication o f
invasive alien species in the park. However, IEG learned that j o b attrition was high
because the clearing methods employed by the project were more labor intensive than
were expected by participants. O n the other hand, IEG also found that the supervised and
accredited training o f contractors offered an opportunity to community members which,
in the absence o f the project, would not have been as widely available. While aspects o f
the procurement and contractual arrangements should be honed in like projects in the
future, this was a sound innovation that could potentially be replicated in I A S
components in similar biodiversity conservation projects supported by the World Bank. It .
also offers a follow-up opportunity whereby the Bank could support a "trainers-of-
trainers" initiative for accredited contractors: efforts could be made to link this group o f
beneficiaries to training events hosted by the Global Invasive Species Program (GISP) in
Africa and abroad.

20.       During its discussions with SANParks, IEG also raised concerns about the
manner by which the targets for the IAS activities were being measured and reported.
IEG noted that greater emphasis seemed to be placed on recording the number o f hectares
initially cleared than those that were being maintained. In terms o f ensuring the
sustainable protection o f the peninsula, the latter aim i s just as critical as the former.

21.       The project was designed to clear 2500 ha o f initial infestation per annum with
the clearing o f all woody alien invasive seed bearing plants by December 2003 so that
only a maintenance program would be required thereafter. Data provided by the project
confirms that the 85-90% o f the park area was cleared at least once. However, site visits
conducted as part o f this assessment revealed uneven maintenance across some sites that
had been cleared during the project period. IEG also witnessed some remaining scattered
and stacked piles o f brushwood at select sites that had not been removed or burned in situ


4. A review o f the contractor program was undertaken by a World Bank senior procurement specialist in March 2002.
I t revealed some weaknesses in the procurement process related to the contractor program and recommended that the
procurement process be tightened. Following the review, a Bank appointed consultant reviewed each contract award
against the Bank's procurement guidelines.
                                              9


(the IEG mission was conducted during the Cape Summer when fires on such sites can be
very intense and result in hydrophobic consequences which should be avoided).

22.      Removing Alien Invasive Fauna. To help meet the objective o f ensuring the
rehabilitation and sustainable protection o f the fauna o f the Cape Peninsula, the project
financed the removal o f a non-indigenous, but nevertheless threatened species, the
Himalayan Tahr (Hemitragus jemlahicus). The underlying objective was to allow for
repopulation o f the Klipspringer, an indigenous antelope species. According to a former
program manager o f the Table Mountain Fund interviewed by IEG, removal o f the
Himalayan Tahr was essential for several reasons. The Himalayan Tahr competes for the
same ecological niche occupied by the Klipspringer. It i s prone to cause excessive soil
and rock erosion as well as severe plant damage. It is also a prolific breeder, and can
reproduce at a rate o f around 23 percent per annum. An alien species, the Tahr also has
no natural enemies on the mountain.

23.      Although successful -54 Klipspringers were introduced into the Park after
elimination o f the Tahr- the intervention was one o f the most controversial aspects o f the
project, generating public outcry amongst animal rights groups and local citizens, some
o f whom organized themselves under the banner "Friends o f the Tahr." Members o f this
group challenged the removal o f the species in light o f the fact that the Tahr have over
time become part o f the Cape Town heritage. Public outcry was also focused on the
manner by which the Tahr were being eliminated (i.e. sharpshooting).

24.      Environmental Education. IEG confirmed that an environmental education
program had been put in place by the park. The Table Mountain National Park's
Environmental Experience (EE) Programme aimed at the disadvantaged youth o f Cape
Town, transported children from schools on the Cape Flats and took them to the Park for
educational activities. SANParks confirmed that the Park hosts more than 20,000 students
per year. The Park has developed a curriculum and training program for over 500
teachers which has been endorsed by the Western Cape Department o f Education.
Teachers who participate and pass are qualified to provide environmental education to
school children in the Park. The project also helped finance the rehabilitation o f
educational centers such as the Sunbird Centre in Silvermine, the Bordjiesrif in the Cape
o f Good Hope section, and the Hoerikwaggo People's Trail.

25.      Footpaths. The original project target o f rehabilitating 37 footpaths was reduced
to 14 in 2003 but by the end o f the project, 19 footpaths (87 km) were completed.
Resources originally targeted towards footpath rehabilitation were reprogrammed to aid
implementation o f the invasive clearing effort after a major fire resulted in changed
vegetation growth patterns (and subsequent alien growth). In a meeting with SANParks,
IEG was presented with an update on the footpath program indicating that 225 km o f
footpaths had been rehabilitated by December 2007, including 5 k m o f boardwalks,
involving an investment o f some 205,000 people days over 4 years . As part o f the
project, SANParks had recruited and trained local community members in footpath
construction, in areas such as trimming, rock interventions, boardwalk construction, etc.
SANParks continued to finance this activity after project end.
                                                        10


26.        Fire Management. SANParks prepared a comprehensive fire management plan
in 2001. The first prescribed burn to regenerate vegetation and reduce fuel loads from
alien vegetation was carried out in April 2002 and was reported to have been highly
successful. A volunteer fire fighting unit has been trained which has been deployed
during fire fighting operations and link roads were constructed for the specific purpose o f
supporting fire fighting in the park. Evidence provided by the ICR related to the success
o f the fire management component was confirmed in a meeting with SANParks, namely
that fires after the establishment o f the management program are smaller and o f shorter
duration and fire preparedness and services are much better organized.

27.     Marine Protection Program. Although the long-term objective o f this
subcomponent was to maintain biodiversity and functional marine ecosystems by
incorporating the Peninsula's marine environment into the terrestrial national park, GEF
funds were used to finance the preliminary work o f conducting a feasibility study for
incorporating the marine environment into the park, identifying boundaries and legal
requirements, undertaking a baseline study o f r e e f fish populations, and elaborating a
proposal for a marine enforcement pilot program. The Marine Park was proclaimed in
2004, with law enforcement and marine environmental education functions devolved
from the Chief Directorate o f Marine and Coastal Management, supported by the Marine
Living Resources Fund.

The Table Mountain Fund

28.      The Table Mountain Fund (TMF), was founded in 1993 by the World Wide Fund
for Nature- South Africa (WWF-SA) to mobilize community support for conservation o f
the Cape Peninsula and to finance small-scale N G O and community-managed
conservation initiatives in and around the then Cape Peninsula Protected National
Environment. Set up as a capital trust fund, by 1998, WWF-SA had raised almost US$2
million that, five years after i t s launch, was generating an annual net income o f about
US$100,000. The Cape PeninsuZa Biodiversity Conservation Project supplementedthe
existing fund with an additional US$5 million to support ongoing conservation o f the
biodiversity o f the Cape Peninsula and its adjacent marine ecosystems and provide an
opportunity to expand activities across the broader Cape Floral K i n g d ~ mThe decision
                                                                               .~
to further capitalize the WWF-SA trust fund rather than establishing a separate one
allowed the project to utilize existing grant application systems, peer review, project
payment tracking and contract management.

29.      The original governance structure o f the TMF was amended in 2004. I t s original
six-member Board o f Trustees featured two institutional representatives each from
WWF-SA, South African National Parks, and the Cape Peninsula National Parks
Committee. Trustees served three-year terms with the option o f re-nomination. However
due to the collapse o f the Cape Peninsula National Parks Committee (See Bank
Performance section), the Board was restructured with individual representatives


5. Although fungible, GEF funds were only deemed eligible to finance conservation activities across the broader Cape
Floral Kingdom, whereas domestic contributions were exclusively focused on the Cape Peninsula. Yet apart from the
geographical focus, there did not appear to be any division between fund sources (GEF or domestic) concerning the
types of activities deemed eligible for finance, with the exception of the purchase o f land (ineligible under GEF
guidelines at the time).
                                                      11


(although WWF-SA remains an institutional member). However, the restructured Board,
although technically sound and arranged in manner that organizationally promotes
coordination, lacks community representation.6As noted in the ICR, the Board should
also exercise caution to avoid potential conflict o f interests that could arise in relation to
the role o f WWF-SA, since it i s both a service provider and a member o f the Board.

30.      The project provided US$5 million o f additional capital into the existing Table
Mountain Fund managed by WWF-SA to support conservation activities in and around
the park system. As o f June 2008, the Fund had supported some 81 projects within 7
focal areas: a) Applied Research that Supports Biodiversity Conservation (20); b)
Building Environmental Awareness (11); c) Capacity Building( 17); d) Conservation
Within the Working Lowlands & Urban Areas (7); e) Control o f Alien Invasive Species
and Restoration o f Natural Biodiversity (22); f) Enhancement o f the Global Conservation
Status o f the Cape Floral Kingdom (2); g) Protection o f Prioritized Habitats: Terrestrial,
Freshwater and Marine (2).

3 1.    Based on a sample o f grant investments selected to ensure representative
coverage across the six areas o f grant eligibility, IEG conducted site visits to 11 projects.
IEG visited three projects in the applied biodiversity conservation research category,
three environmental awareness projects; three projects involving conservation within the
working lowlands and the urban areas; one invasive alien control project and one project
mapped to the grant category o f protection o f prioritized habitats (see Annex B).

32.       This review found that while much o f the research funded by the TMF i s
published and peer reviewed in scientific journals, the project lacked a feedback loop to
channel research findings into i t s activities under implementation. Findings from IAS
related research funded by the Table Mountain Fund (component B), for example, were
not systematically fed into the supervision o f IAS clearing and maintenance activities
funded by other parts o f the project (component A). In other cases, where applied
research was conducted in riparian areas, the research offers valuable lessons in regard to
the restoration o f cleared riparian areas, where current practice mainly relies on the un-
aided recovery o f native species from residual individuals and soil stored seed banks.
This research should be more widely disseminated. In the Diep River corridor, home to
the critically endangered Cape Flats Sand Fynbos and Endangered Cape Flats Dune
Strandveld, IEG met with the then newly appointed conservator to discuss the challenges
o f environmental management in an area earmarked for development in response to
South Africa's vast public housing shortage. Meanwhile, some o f the grants in this
category reviewed by this assessment were less applied research than an effort to collate
existing basic and applied research, such as was the case with the wetlands research
conducted o f the Moddervlei wetlands.

33.     Both through the aforementioned site visits and meetings with the Table
Mountain Fund manager and staff, IEG found that it i s critical for small conservation
oriented grants at the design stage to inform and include the appropriate decision-makers
who may eventually need to be involved in land-use planning decision-making if the
research i s to be expanded. Some o f the project sites visits, including Diep River

6. The restructured (2004) TMF Board of Trustees includes two representatives from WWF-SA, 1 from SANParks, 1
from the CAPE ImplementationTeam, 1 from the Fynbos Forum, and 1 from the City o f Cape town.
                                                         12


Corridor, demonstrated good pilot results but their expansion.were stymied by a lack o f
landscape level planning and buy in by relevant decision-makers.

34.           Meanwhile, the strategic focus o f the Table Mountain Fund improved over the
l i f e o f the project. This was due to two main factors. Fund staff began to work in parallel
on the development o f the Cape Action for People and the Environment, or the C.A.P.E.
strategy (see below) and the GEF contribution allowed the TMF to extend both i t s
strategic and geographical reach. Beginning in 1999, the Fund began to adopt a more
programmatic approach, based on a set o f priorities, whereby project and strategic
partnership development began to assume a greater degree o f importance than before.' In
a report produced by early members o f the TMF team, it was recognized that one o f the
most notable changes made following GEF funding and the expansion o f the fund was a
newly adopted attitude towards the need to work outside o f formal conservation areas.
This included a drastic shift in the way that WWF-SA had viewed the Cape Flats, an
expansive, low-lying, poverty stricken area situated to the southeast o f Cape Town.
Referred to as the "triage rule", the WWF-SA strategy did not direct funds to the Flats,
despite the fact that the area presents an opportunity to work on Lowland Fynbos
rehabilitation as well as presenting an array o f conservation oriented livelihood
opportunities. As noted in the ICR, it i s important that the TMF, now a signatory to the
C.A.P.E. Memorandum o f Understanding, continue to directly support implementation o f
the C.A.P.E. strategy (discussed below). A TMF Strategic Plan drafted at the time o f
project closure supports this.

35.     The project was Highly Effective in achieving i t s second objective, o f initiating
conservation planning and conservation activities for the entire Cape Floral Kingdom. A
Cape Action Plan for the Environment (CAPE 2000 Strategy) was completed in 2000. As
noted by the ICR, the CAPE strategy presented a first serious attempt to apply the
Convention on Biodiversity (CBD) ecosystem approach to conservation, and catalyzed a
paradigm shift from species-based and "in-park" conservation management approaches to
landscape-level conservation strategies and activities across the country.

36.     The scientific approach adopted by CAPE, the first o f i t s kind in the world,
pioneered a new way o f identifying biodiversity priorities. It designed a scientifically
defensible protected area network, and stimulated a focus on the Cape Lowlands as a
conservation priority. Both the National Spatial Biodiversity Assessment (2004) and the
National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (2005) incorporated insights and lessons
from the project.

37.     According to the Evaluation o GEFActivities in South Afiica (1997-2008)
                                      f
conductedjust prior to this assessment, the CAPE strategy has also influenced landscape
and bioregional planning in the Subtropical Thicket Ecosystem Project, Succulent Karoo
Ecosystem Project, and National Grasslands Biodiversity Program, as well as projects in
the Eastern African Marine Ecoregion (Kenya, Tanzania, and Mozambique), Central

8. Beginning in 1999, the TMF adopted a set o f six priorities against which grants could be approved and funded.
These priorities were: 1) Protectiono f Prioritized Habitats; (2) Conservation o f CFK lowlands; (3) Environmental
awareness; (4) Management o f alien vegetation; (5) Applied Research and Institution Building; (6) Enhancement o f the
Global Conservation Status o f the CFK.
                                                 13


Annamites (Vietnam), and Eastern Africa Coastal Forests, and the dryland ecoregional
programs o f the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF 2006).

38.      A Memorandum o f Understanding (MOU) on the implementation o f the
C.A.P.E. strategy was signed in 2001 by key government departments, NGOs, and
statutory conservation bodies. The Department o f Environmental Affairs and Tourism i s
designated as the lead agent at the national level.

39.      The implementation phase o f the C.A.P.E. strategy began in 2001. Currently
under implementation, the formulation o f the strategy has served as a coordination
mechanism for multi-donor support, ensuring a spatial approach to conservation
planning. The following diagram demonstrates the various project instruments and
funding mechanisms that have been catalyzed to assist with the implementation o f the
strategy, including a follow-on World Bank implementedGEF project entitled the
C.A.P.E. Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development Project.

Figure 1: Project instruments and funding mechanisms


                             Biodiversity Conservation
                                     Project



 Table Mountain National       Table Mountain Fund
  Park implemented by                                     (Developed and Endorsed




                                                           Strategy (began in 2001)




40.        Overall project efficacy i s rated substantial. The project substantially achieved
i t s objectives. It substantially achieved its first objective o f ensuring the rehabilitation and
sustainable protection o f globally significant flora and related fauna o f the Cape
Peninsula. The project successfully fast-tracked the establishment o f a national park. The
                                                  14


project's support for the consolidation o f different categories o f public and private lands
and for the merger o f the more than a dozen conservation authorities into a single entity
helped to put in place a sound park management system. The project aimed to ensure the
rehabilitation o f the native Fynbos on the Cape Peninsula- the primary flora associated
with the Cape Floral Kingdom, the smallest o f the six floral kingdoms on Earth- by
eradicating 100% o f the invasive alien species in the project area. W h i l e the project f e l l
short o f i t s target, due to the ambitious nature o f the target but also due to implementation
delays associated with a large fire, the project was highly effective in achieving its
second objective, the initiation o f conservation planning and conservation activities for
the entire Cape Floral Kingdom.

EFFICIENCY

41.       Overall Efficiency o f the project is rated Substantial. While this project was
financed with a US$12.3 million grant from the Global Environment Facility, interviews
for this review attested that the grant was critical in catalyzing both political and financial
domestic support for the effective creation o f the national park. Total actual project costs,
which were derived mostly from domestic support were equivalent to US$105.67 million.
The GEF grant helped to fast-track the consolidation o f lands needed for the effective
conservation o f the native flora and fauna o f the Cape Peninsula and it facilitated the
merger o f numerous management bodies into a streamlined system o f park management,
namely SANPARKs. As discussed below, economic studies conducted o f the park have
demonstrated that it i s financially self-sustaining and contributes to the overall economy
o f Cape Town. In fact, Table Mountain National Park i s n o w the second most profitable
o f the twenty-two parks run by SANParks in South Africa. Additionally, with less than
US$1 million directed towards the development o f the Cape Strategy, the GEF grant has
helped to put in place a landscape level action plan identifying the priority areas for
Conservation o f the Cape Floral Region around which several donors have coalesced. The
specific findings regarding the cost-effectiveness o f select project activities are discussed
below.

The Economic Impact o the Establishment o Table Mountain National Park
                     f                   f

42.      The project did not conduct an economic or financial rate o f return analysis.
However, the Table Mountain National Park (SANParks) commissioned a study in 2004,
by the University O f Cape Town Graduate School O f Business to assess the
macroeconomic impact o f the Park.' IEG reviewed the study and interviewed members o f
the assessment team during its mission. The assessment found that Park operations have
had a significant macroeconomic effect on Cape Town, the Western Cape, and South
Africa. After taking into account all multiplier effects, the assessment estimated that
expenditure at the Park had made a cumulative contribution to Gross Domestic Product
o f R 377 million during the lifetime o f the project (1 998-2004) including a contribution
o f R132 million to the area's Gross Geographic Product (GGP), the provincial equivalent
o f GDP. Several efficiency gains were achieved as a result o f the declaration and

8
  , (Standish, B. et al, The Economic Contribution o the Table Mountain National Park (October 2004)
                                                    f
(this reference should probably go in a footnote rather than in the main text),
                                             15


unification o f the Park and the transfer o f its management from some fourteen agencies
within the City o f Cape Town SANParks. The assessment cited a reduction o f duplication
o f overheads and services; personnel rationalization; increased ability to leverage
funding; and a freeing up o f City resources. W h i l e the number o f people employed in the
operation and management o f the Park decreased, investment in the park directly created
and sustained between 300-600 jobs (between 103-158 indirect jobs were also created
during the project period as a result o f operational and project expenditures).

Cost-Effectiveness o the Table Mountain Fund
                    f

43.     The decision to channel project funds through an already existing fully
operational trust fund in South Africa was a highly efficient aspect o f project design. The
decision eliminated the initial costs necessary for establishing such a fund, including its
administrative and allocative mechanisms. GEF funds did not finance salaries o f
permanent staff employed by WWF-SA. Rather time spent by WWF-SA staff was
incorporated into the operating costs o f the Fund.

Cost-Effectiveness o Invasive Alien Species Clearing
                   f

44.       At project appraisal, the spread o f invasive alien species, particularly, Acacia
cyclops, was deemed the greatest threat to the integrity o f the unique biodiversity o f the
Cape Peninsula. For this reason, a significant share o f project resources, through
components 1 and 2, were directed towards the clearing o f invasive alien species. As
recognized by the project, the cost o f vegetation control rises quickly with the density o f
the stand. The PAD estimated the costs o f initial clearings - from US$90 per hectare for a
lightly infested stand to about US$1,200 for a heavily infested hectare. The heavy-up
front investment to initially clear was justified on the basis that, once cleared,
maintenance costs would be much more moderate. Follow-up annual maintenance o f a
lightly infested stand was estimated to cost approximately US$16 per hectare. . Follow-
up maintenance on a dense stand would cost approximately US$500 per hectare. The
Project Appraisal Document stated that these costs would only "decrease thereafter."
Project documentation indicated that most areas were only lightly infested, so that the
annual follow-up cost would amount to about one-fifth to a quarter o f the initial clearing
investment. The project, including the separate economic analysis conducted, lacks
analysis o f the comparative efficiency or cost-effectiveness o f identifying and applying
appropriate or alternative clearing techniques, including mechanical, chemical, and/or
biological control methods. As initial clearing progressed, the project lacked a systematic
evaluation o f its IAS operations that, if performed, could have resulted in
recommendation o f ways to enhance efficiency for clearing o f like species in similar
sites.
                                                              16


Monitoring and Evaluation

M&E DESIGN

45.       One o f the "lessons learned" from this project, as reported in the ICR, i s to
"avoid over-design.'' According to the ICR, the project "benefitted from a broad-brush
L o g frame, which clearly set out the project objectives and key performance indicators
but avoided detail (10% design and 90% implementation)." This assessment concurs with
the original IEG I C R Review comment that the log frame originally established for the
project was actually quite detailed and, even so, this may not be a general lesson that is
useful to extend to other World Bank administered GEF biodiversity projects.' The
design o f the project's M&E system is rated by this assessment as substantial, since it
was comprehensive in its coverage o f all o f the project's components, with one caveat
related to the monitoring and reporting o f its I A S components. The project log frame was
designed with clear, measurable indicators in relation to the "clearing" aspects o f the I A S
component however the log frame lacks indicators that measure maintenance, or the
regeneration or rehabilitation o f the native flora (particularly relevant for dense strands).'

                                          MANAGEMENT I N
M&E IMPLEMENTATION: PUTTING AN ENVIRONMENTAL     SYSTEM
PLACE

46.      The project successfully assisted with the development and initial
implementation o f an Integrated Environmental Management System, based on I S 0
1400. The system has begun to collect information on the legal mechanisms for securing
conservation easements, analysis o f visitor use patterns, impacts o f management actions
on surface hydrology, identification o f new biocontrol agents etc. A s a result o f the
integrated environmental monitoring system which was supported by the project, several
aspects o f park maintenance are now monitored and evaluated regularly. M&E
implementation i s rated substantial.

M&E Utilization

47.      Several adjustments were made to the project during implementation as a result
o f monitoring and evaluation exercises. An evaluation commissioned by the Park in 2004
o f GEF-financed materials developed as part o f the Environmental Education
subcomponent led to changes in the teachers' workshop format and in the production o f
model lesson plans. Detailed fire records are now maintained and mapped regularly and
the Fire Risk M a p i s updated annually. Annual fire management evaluations are
conducted in order to prepare for the next fire season and to plan for prescribed burns.


10. The project log frame (PAD Annex 1) was designed with clear, measurable indicators in relation to the "clearing"
aspects o f the component. Key performance indicators include". ..the removal of.. ..all invasive alien seed bearing
plants. by year 6... . [so that]. .. all natural areas previously infested with invasive aliens [would be] in maintenance by
year 6." A specific quantitative target i s provided o f "2500 hdyear o f land cleared o f initial infestation o f alien invasive
species." No such target, however, i s provided for maintenance, nor are there any qualitative indicators to address any
o f the risks identified by the project associated with the quality o f clearing activities (which are often site and species
specific).
                                             17


Erosion monitoring has led to the revision o f the Footpath Development Manual. The
park monitors the status o f the invasive alien species clearing activities. However, as
noted in meetings with SANParks, a stronger link needs to be established between the
monitoring o f I A S clearing and that o f the impact that clearing activities have o n
biodiversity. At the time o f this assessment, IEG was informed that an I A S clearing
monitoring and evaluation system was under development, to assess impact and enable
adaptive management o n an ongoing basis. M&E utilization i s rated substantial.

48.     The design, implementation, and utilization o f the project's Monitoring and
Evaluation system are rated substantial.

BANKPERFORMANCE

Quality at Entry

49.      The quality o f project entry i s Satisfactory. This project was designed to
strengthen existing initiatives, such as the Table Mountain Fund and the ongoing
conservation o f the Cape Peninsula. The decision to further capitalize an existing
conservation fund managed by WWF-SA was practical and engendered efficiencies that
could not have been achieved by creating a separate stand-alone fund by this one GEF
project. The capacity building and j o b creation aspects o f the project were in line both
with the holistic manner that South Africa manages its twin objective o f biodiversity
conservation and poverty alleviation and the Bank's mission.

50.       Project preparation benefited from a US$85,000 PDF-B grant that financed a set
o f studies executed by the South African National Parks Board. These studies were
designed t o provide baseline information for the conservation activities that would be
undertaken by the project. Study topics included: conservation threats and strategic
priorities in the Cape Floristic Region; marine biodiversity and the proposal o f a pilot
marine conservation program; alien plant control options assessment and research
program; environmental information and monitoring and evaluation systems; park
management budget and financial projections; and trust fund project approval
mechanisms.

5 1.      However, as discussed in the section o n the relevance o f project design, quality
o f entry could have been strengthened by increased attention to marine livelihood issues,
enhanced attention to seeking public consensus on sensitive issues related to the removal
o f pines and the Himalayan tahr.

Quality o f Supervision

52.      Supervision i s rated Satisfactory. World Bank supervision missions were
consistent in their focus o n the need to ensure a financially secure future for the park
system, including the maintenance o f the areas cleared o f invasive species. Discussions
with SANParks concerning the financial sustainability o f the park were launched during
the early stages o f project implementation. Partly as a result o f the emphasis placed o n
the financial sustainability o f the park from the early phases o f project implementation,
Table Mountain National Park i s now the second most profitable o f the 22 parks run by
                                                 18


    SANParks. Annual park revenue from admissions increased from a level o f US$2 million
    at project start to about US$8.6 million at project closure. (At project close, the park was
    generating about US$2 million over and above its operating budget).The project
    underwent an independent audit, conducted by Price Waterhouse Cooper, that met Bank
    requirements per the World Bank Guidelines.

    53.       The Bank supervision team also worked closely with the managers and staff o f
    the Table Mountain Fund. The value o f the South African Rand fluctuated greatly over
    the lifetime o f the project. Early on, due to a significant depreciation o f the Rand, the
    value o f the Fund far surpassed initial fund-raising goals. Bank supervision helped to
    identify and move forward a proposal to expand the scope o f TMF-funded activities at a
    faster pace than was expected. Bank supervision was critical again, in 2003, when the
    Fund experienced a sharp devaluation (reflecting a "paper loss" o f U S $1 million) due to
    currency fluctuations and a general downturn in markets. Per guidance provided by the
    Bank, the TMF moved swiftly to devise a more diversified and lower risk investment
    strategy.

    54.      Bank supervision missions also flagged and helped correct for other issues,
    including delayed execution o f an expected financial contribution for invasive alien
    clearing from SANParks as well as a "surplus funds" issue. During an early supervision
    mission, the Bank observed that the financial reporting system employed by SANParks
,   did not clearly identify charges to the Park for corporate services and that, instead, a
    "surplus" was registered that was then transferred to SANParks headquarters in Pretoria.
    To the extent that this "surplus" de facto was a subsidy to the central park structure, this
    presented difficulties from the GEF project perspective. Bank supervision emphasized
    that any "real" surplus generated by the park should be used for investment in the park
    itself.

           PERFORMANCE
    BORROWER

    55.     Overall Borrower performance i s rated Satisfactory.

    56.       Government Performance i s rated Highly Satisfactory. The Government o f
    South Africa demonstrated a high degree o f ownership o f the project. I t approved and
    enacted several pieces o f supportive legislation including a new Biodiversity Act, a
    Protected Areas Act, a National Veld and Forest Fire Act, alien species control
    legislation, marine protection legislation and legal protection o f both the Table Mountain
    National Park and some o f its associated Marine Protected Areas.

    57.      Implementing Agency Performance i s Rated Satisfactory. The project was
    implemented by two agencies, the South African National Parks (SANParks) and WWF-
    SA. The former was charged with overseeing the implementation o f all project
    subcomponents associated with the establishment and maintenance o f the Table
    Mountain National Park. WWF-SA was charged with managing the Table Mountain
    Fund and coordinating the Cape Strategy. SANParks performance was satisfactory, in
    relation to the overall management o f the park. However its performance revealed some
    shortcomings in relation to i t s management o f the community forums that had been
    assembled to provide local voice and advice to enhance the management o f the newly
                                               19


 created park system. A committee called the Cape Peninsula National Park Committee
 was assembled for the purpose o f engendering a high level o f ownership and community-
 level participation in the nascent park management arrangements, particularly regarding
 the social dimensions o f park management, as well as to seek technical feedback from
 qualified local scientists on environmental aspects, such as Fynbos Management.
 However the committee was never fully utilized and was disbanded by DEAT in 2003.
 Interviews with committee members revealed that instead o f disbanding t h e committee,
 i t s composition could have been revisited to enhance the relevance o f its skill mix to
 better serve park management needs. This would have maintained the advisory role
 envisioned for key community members who have had a long-standing stake in land use
 decisions in and around the park

  58.      The fund was managed by WWF-SA in a highly satisfactory manner. Financial
  asset management has been successful and funds have been utilized in a strategic and
. cost-effective manner. The development o f the co-financing criteria for the grant
  applications was successful in leveraging additional support for conservation activities.
  The fund was audited by an external firm annually. This assessment nevertheless
  observed that there is room for enhanced coordination between the TMF and the small
  grants mechanism administered by the Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund in South
  Africa, particularly in relation to programs being implemented in the Cape Flats. WWF-
  SA also carried out a highly successful oversight and coordination effort o f Cape Action
  Plan for the Environment, or the Cape 2000 Strategy.

 SAFEGUARDS

 59.      The project triggered four Bank safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment
 (OP4.01), Natural Habitats (OP 4.04), Forestry (OP 4.36) and Pest Management (OP
 4.09). Although not triggered, the issue o f resettlement arose during project design in
 reference to one community that was relocated by the Government o f South Africa to an
 area outside the park perimeter j u s t prior to i t s demarcation. The assessment found there
 to be no violation o f safeguards; issues that arose concerning two operational policies,
 namely environmental assessment and resettlement, are relayed below:

 60.      EnvironmentalAssessment The World Bank engaged in a discussion with
 SANParks during the preparatiodappraisal stage o f the project about the plausibility o f
 implementing an Environmental Management System (EMS) in accordance with I S 0
 14001 in all o f the national parks in South Africa. As the initial manager o f this project
 noted, there i s a common belief that biodiversity conservation projects and projects
 financing support for institutions and agencies in charge o f managing parks and reserves,
 do not need Environmental Assessments since their objective i s to protect the
 environment. However, experience suggests otherwise. Many o f the institutions and
 agencies that the Bank helps to build or strengthen do not always have a good track
 record in terms o f infrastructure development, energy, water and waste management
 systems. They also lack the authority and sometimes the capacity to monitor
 environmental management in private joint ventures within the park or across adjacent
 areas. Triggered by this discussion which was held initially as part o f the Cape Peninsula
 Biodiversity Conservation Project, SANParks agreed to prepare and implement an
 Environmental Management System for the Table Mountain Park, and then to extend the
                                             20


system to all the parks in South Africa (after first rolling it out in Kruger, Golden Gate,
and Tsitsikamma National Parks). SANParks became the first agency in Africa to adopt
an overall EMS approach and then disseminated it in the region.

61.     In addition to the environment management system, a separate project specific
Environmental Assessment was prepared by the University o f Cape Town Environmental
Evaluation Unit (EEU). I t was circulated to interested NGOs for comment. The EEU o f
UCT continued to be involved as an independent party to review implementation o f the
associated Environment Management Plan on an annual basis, advise the National Parks
Board and WWF-SA accordingly and participate in the EIAs for infrastructure works.

62.       Resettlement Although OP 4.10 was not triggered, the PAD indicated that for
the purpose o f establishing or managing the park, the Redhill Squatter Community, some
125 families who live on private land (14 ha) adjacent to the future park, had elected to
relocate to land which falls outside the proposed park boundaries prior to initializing the
establishment o f the park. IEG visited the Red Hill community, many residents o f which
were given contracts by the project to do invasive alien species clearing. The assessment
learned that although an appropriate site for relocation was appointed by the State, as a
result o f negotiations that have been on-going for six years, the community had not been
moved to the location promised.

                 EFFECTIVENESS
RISK TO DEVELOPMENT

63.       Risk to development outcome i s rated as negligible to low. The project helped to
secure national park status for the Table Mountain National Park, which encompasses an
area o f some 25,000 hectares or 83 percent o f the land targeted for consolidation. The
Table Mountain National Park i s now financially sustainable; the Park i s protected
through legislation; i t s environmental education program has been mainstreamed within
the curriculum o f the provincial Department o f Education; and newly adopted legislation
requires effective wildfire management by the Park and other agencies.

64.      The Table Mountain Fund i s considered a model fund that, according to the
GEF, i s outperforming targets for project funding and has provided extensive catalytic
resources. GEF financing was a small portion o f overall financing for this project; almost
all Park co-financing was o f domestic origin (national) and the Table Mountain Fund and
WWF-SA raised a significant level o f co-financing apart from the GEF, signaling strong
commitment for conservation activities on and around the Cape.

65.     The CAPE strategy prepared under the project i s now under implementation and
funded through several projects, including two GEF projects, the Cape Action Plan for
the Environment Implementation Program and the Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative.
Potential risks that will require mitigation in the future include the continued financing
and support for the maintenance o f the areas cleared o f invasive alien species continued
urban expansion, and the security issues that have arisen over the course o f project
implementation that could affect tourism in the park.

66.     IEG's field visit included a briefing on the increased security concerns. in and
around Table Mountain National park. IEG was informed that, from 2000 to 2004, there
                                             21


were a series o f criminal attacks around the Noordhoek wetlands and beach located in the
Table Mountain National Park. The park employed a service, Cybertracker, to help the
police and park rangers set up a monitoring program to track and try to prevent the
attacks. This system helped to increase the number o f arrests shortly after it was
implemented in 2004 and was reportedly responsible for preventing several attacks from
occurring thereafter.

     LEARNED
LESSONS

67.      I n countries where the World Bank does not have an active lending
program, it may consider the benefits o f implementinggrant financing from the
Global Environment Facility, if available, in a manner that integrates global
environmentaland poverty alleviation objectives. Landscape restoration activities,
such as invasive alien clearing, offer opportunities for both conservation o f native flora
and fauna and j o b creation and entrepreneurial skills development, if the project i s
designed to target disadvantaged communities. If designed correctly, members o f
communities trained to clear IAS in key biodiversity sites can also engage in annual
maintenance, however recurrent funding is required and few countries apart from South
Africa have yet to assign a high national priority to the activity.

68.       Efforts to restore native flora and fauna should take into account both the
level o f public awareness and competingpublic values concerning invasive alien
species. Biodiversity values will need to be balanced against other public use values such
as recreation, as in the case o f the decision to remove the pine trees from Table Mountain
National Park. A decision to eradicate one alien species in favor o f another native one -
such was the case concerning the removal o f the Himalayan tahr in favor o f the
Klipspringer - should be vetted publicly and options other than eradication should clearly
be considered. Public consultation and consensus building campaigns can help to
determine the optimal level o f eradication o f local flora and fauna that will benefit the
biodiversity agenda and secure community support for local conservation efforts.

69.       Projects that finance research, whether basic o r applied, should include a
mechanism to adapt research findings into ongoing implementationo f
complementary project activities. A heavy investment was made in invasive alien
species clearing and rehabilitation, both through a subcomponent o f this project and
through several applied research grants funded by the Table Mountain Fund. This
research was published and disseminated, but not systematically incorporated into the
ongoing overall program. A mechanism was also needed to channel information arising
from implementation to update the Table Mountain Fund's grant proposal processes t o
align it with program needs - i.e. so that the Fund could effectively serve as a think tank
for on-the-ground project implementation.

70.      Managing a small grant mechanism for biodiversity conservation requires
an investment in project development to assure that the fund as a whole i s geared
toward achieving its programmatic (and landscape) goals. Project development
necessarily involves thinking about partnerships, often at the design stage, since the right
combination o f actors will be needed to apply and adapt research beyond the small pilot
applications supported by a fund such as the TMF. A range o f partners should be brought
                                            22


into the project development process, including local land use decision makers in the
government and/or conservation agencies, community based organizations and NGOs
that can provide follow-on resources, universities interested in furthering the research
aim, donors, and the private sector. Since applied research will need to be adapted and
scaled-up, getting buy-in from those key constituents that are charged with land-use
decisions up-front can help t o prioritize grant approval processes and can contribute to
enhanced sustainability o f the outcomes o f successful interventions.
                                                        23                                               Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
CAPE PENINSULA BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
(TF-28321, TF-28322, TF-28956)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                                    Appraisal               Actual or          Actual as % of
                                                    estimate             current estimate    appraisal estimate    .
IDA Credit                                            12.3                    12.19                 99.0
Cofinancing                                           1.oo                     1.46                146.0
Government and Other                                  77.9                    92.02                118.4
Total project cost                                   91.20                    105.67               115.9


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
                             FY98   FY99   FYOO   FYOl       FY02   FY03      FY04   FY05
Appraisal estimate            5.9    7.0    8.4    9.7       10.9   12.3      12.3   12.3
Actual                        0.0    6.0    8.0    9.7       10.3   11.2      11.6   12.2
Actual as % of estimate       0.0   86.0   95.0   100.0      94.5   91.0      94.3   99.2


Project Dates
                                                              Oriainal                          Actual
Departure of Appraisal Mission                                                                06/15/1997
Appraisal                                                                                     11/05/1997
Board approval                                                                                02/17/1998
Effectiveness                                                06/01/1998                       06/01/1998
Mid-Term Review                                              09/14/2000                       09/24/2000
Closing date                                                 06/30/2004                       06/30/2005



Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                                               ActoalLatest Estimate
                                       N" Staff weeks                                          us$us$rooo~
Identification/Preparation                         13.2                                      79.0
AppraisaVNegotiation                              42.8                                      230.0
Supervision                                       52.6                                      289.0
Completion (ICR)                                   2.6                                       31 .O
Total                                             111.2                                     629.0
                                                     24                                             Annex A



                                                                                             Performance rating
                         Date           No. o
                                            f
                      (montwyear)      persons       Specializations represented        Implementation Development
                                                                                             status     objectives
Identification           0411997          5        Team Leader, Environmentalist,
Preparation                                      Environmental Economist, Ecologist,
                                                    Financial Management Expert,
                                                      Sociologist/Anthropologist
Appraisal/          09/1997- 1011997      4              Task Team Leader,
Negotiation                                        Environmentalist, Environmental
                                                    Economist, Counsel, Financial
                                                         Management Expert
Supervision 1            04/1999          1               Task Team Leader                    S              S
 Supervision 2           10/1999          4      Task Team Leader, Senior Financial           S              S
                                                    Management Specialist, GEF
                                                    Regional, Operations Analyst
 Supervision 3           05/2000          2           Task Team Leader, Senior                S              S
                                                       Environmental Specialist
 Supervision 4           1012000          6      Task Team Leader, Project Assistant,         S             HS
                                                  Financial Management Assistant,
                                                    Senior Financial Management
                                                   Specialist, Conservation, Senior
                                                      Environmental Specialist
 Supervision 5           041200 1         3      Task Team Leader, Senior Financial           S             HS
                                                   Management Specialist, Senior
                                                      Environmental Specialist
 Supervision 6           1012001          2           Task Team Leader, Senior               HS             HS
                                                      Environmental Specialist
 Supervision 7           0512002          4         Task Team Leader, Financial              HS             HS
                                                    Management, Overall support,
                                                      Environment Consultant
 Supervision 8           1212002          3        Task Team Leader, Environment             HS             HS
                                                   Consultant, Actuarial Specialist
 Supervision 9           0412003          2        Task Team Leader, Environment              S              S
                                                            Consultant
 Supervision 10          1112003          2        Task Team Leader, Environment              S              S
                                                            Consultant
 Supervision 11          0212004          2        Task Team Leader, Environment              S              S
                                                            Consultant
 Supervision 12          1112004          2        Task Team Leader, Environment              S              S
                                                            Consultant
 ICR
                         0112006          2      Lead Operations Officer, Consultant         HS             HS
Performance Rating: S: Satisfactory; HS: Highly Satisfactory
                                                               25                                              Annex B


     Annex B. Table Mountain Fund Programme Portfolio
     Table Mountain Fund (TMF) Programme Portfolio

        0      Total Number o f TMF Projects: 8 1
        0      TMF Investments Themes: 7

        A. Applied Research that Supports Biodiversity Conservation (20)
        B. Building Environmental Awareness (11)
        C. Capacity (I 7)
        D. Conservation Within the Working Lowlands & Urban Areas (7)
        E. Control o f Alien Invasive and the Restoration o f Natural Biodiversity (22)
        F. Enhancement o f the Global Conservation Status o f the Cape Floral Kingdom
           (2)
        G. Protection o f Prioritized Habitats: Terrestrial, Freshwater and Marine (2)




                   Cape Fold Mountain Region - A Centre o f Diversity   Applied Research that Supports
1    ZA 5028       for Endemic Freshwater Fish                          Biodiversity Conservation        No
                   GENETIC Diversity and Conservation Status o f
                   Reptiles and Amphibians of the Cape Fold             Applied Research that Supports
2    ZA 5063       Mountains                                            Biodiversity Conservation        No

                   The Distribution of Relictual Gondwanan              ADDlied Research that SUDDO~~S




                   A Genetics Evaluation o f the Endangered
                   LeucadendrondLevisanus & Moraea Aristata with        Applied Research that Supports
5    ZA 5107       implication for Restoration & Management             Biodiversity Conservation

                                                                        Amlied Research that SUDDO~~S




                                                                        Applied Research that Supports
9    ZA 5044       Rehabilitation o f Rondegat River                    Biodiversity Conservation        Yes


                                                                        Applied Research that Supports
10   ZA 1022       Cape Peninsula Visitor and User Survey               Biodiversity Conservation

                                                                        Applied Research that Supports
11   ZA 5091       Conservation o f the Black Harrier in South Africa   Biodiversitj Conservation
                                                               26                                              Annex I3




                  Wetland Classificationfor the "Ecological Reserve''




L3



14

                              o f the Reintroductiono f Klipspnnger
15 .



16




17     ZA 1361    Tea Farmers to Climate Change                         Biodiversity Conservation        Yes          No


                  Conservation o f Pocket Afromontane Forests on the    Applied Researchthat Supports
18     ZA 5007    Cape Peninsula                                        Biodiversity Conservation        No


                                                                        Applied Research that Supports
19     ZA 1013    Medicinal Use o f Fynbos                              Biodiversity Conservation


                  Boundaries o f Protected Areas Cape Peninsula         Applied Research that Supports
20     ZA 552     Park                                                  Biodiversity Conservation        No

                                                                        Applied Research that Supports
21     ZA 500     Central & Southern Peninsula Footpaths                Biodiversity Conservation        No


                                                                        Applied Research that Supports
22     ZA 5035    Vegetation Restoration in the Renosterveld            Biodiversity Conservation

                                                                        Building Environmental
23     Z A 5016   Cape Envirohnk Publication                            Awareness



24




26

27

28
                                                                        Building Environmenta
29


30

                                                                        Building Environmental
31     ZA 5003    Pride o f Table Mountain                              Awareness
                                                           27                                       Annex B




                                                                   Building Environmental
                ;IS: Reconnecting Youth with Nature                Awareness

                Scoschools Programme: Kirstenbosch &               Building Environmental
                                                                   Awareness




+
                3ethelsdorp Fynbos Nodes

                3oerikwaggo Mountains in the Sea: Coffee Table     Building Environmental
     ZA 5 105   300k                                               Awareness

                                                                   Building Environmental
37   Z A 588    Cogelberg Biosphere EnvironmentalEducation         Awareness

                                                                   Building Environmental
38   ZA 307 A   Protea Atlas                                       Awareness

                                                                   Building Environmental
40   ZA 307 B   Protea Atlas                                       Awareness
                Botanical Post with the Custodians o f Rare &
                EndangeredWildflowers (CREW) to Support
41   ZA5114     CapeNature                                         Capacity


42              CEPF Capacity Building Programme                   Capacity
                                                                   Conservation Within the
                Cape Lowlands: Incentives for Private Land         Working Lowlands & Urban
43   ZA 593     Owners to Conserve Rare Habitats                   Areas
                                                                   Conservation Within the
                                                                   Working Lowlands & Urban
44   ZA 5012    St Francis Coastal Open Space System   - SCOSS     Areas
                                                                   Conservation Within the
                Harmony Flats Expansion Project - Botanical        Working Lowlands & Urban
45   Z A 5086   Survey                                             Areas
                                                                   Conservation Within the
                                                                   Workrng Lowlands & Urban
46



47
     ZA 5018



     ZA 5040
                Cape Lowlands Conservation Programme

                Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Open Space System
                A Strategic Conservation Plan
                                                                   Areas
                                                                   Conservation Within the
                                                                   Working Lowlands & Urban
                                                                   Areas
                                                                                               !"
                                                                                               No
                                                                                                          I

                                                                    conservation Within the
                                                                    Working Lowlands & Urban




+
     ZA 5106    3iodiversity in EnvironmentalAssessment             Areas


'_I  ZA 5122
                Norkshop to Determine Rapid Assessment Methods
                :or Renostervetd
                                                                    Conservation Within the
                                                                    Working Lowlands & Urban
                                                                    Areas
                                                                    Conservation Within the
                 3ethelsdorp Community Conservation Project Plan    Working Lowlands & Urban
                 __-
                 9: Implementation S t i a t e y Development



                 'ape I la& Nature
                                                                       28                                                Annex B




                                                                                Control of Alien Invasive and
I        I             I Alien Vegetation Control: Silvermine Nature            the Restoration of natural




                                                                                     estoration of natural




                                                                                Enhancemento f the Global
                           World Heritage Status for Cape Peninsula (Phase 2)   Conservation Status of the Cape
    61       ZA 596        (TMF)


    62       ZA 5006       Groote Schuur Estate Planning Process
                                                                                Protectiono f Prioritised
                                                                                Habitats Terrestrial, Freshwater
    63       ZA 5027       CPNP MPA Stock Assessment                            and Marine                         Yes         No
                                                                                Protection of Prioritised
                           Kouga-BaviaanskloofReserve Complex -                 Habitats Terrestrial, Freshwater
    64       ZA 5013       Development of a Conservation Motivation             and Marine
                                                                                Protection of Prioritised
                           Wychwood Kennels - Acquisition o f Business          Habitats Terrestrial. Freshwater
    65       ZA 595        Rights                                               and Marine                         Yes         No
I        I             I




                           Facilitating the Protection and Conservation         Protection o f Prioritised
                           Management of the Cape West Coast Biosphere          Habitats Terrestrial, FreshNater
                           Reserve                                              and Marine
                                                                                Protection of Prioritised
                                                                                Habitats Terrestrial, Freshwater
             ZA1417        Co-ordination o f Shark Spotter Programme            and Marine                         Yes         No

                                                                                Protection of Prioritised
                           TMNP Marine Protectd Areas (MPAs) Capacity           Habitats Terrestrial, Freshwater
             ZA5024        Building                                             and Marine
                                                                 29                                                   Annex B




                                                                            Protection of Pnoritised
                                                                            Habitats Terrestrial, Freshwater
70   ZA 575         Kommetjie Wetlands and Corridor Feasibility Study

                    Assessment of the State o f Marine Protected Areas      Habitats Terrestrial, Freshwater
71   ZA 5065        in South Africa                                         and Marine
                                                                            Protection of Prioritised
                                                                            Habitats: Terrestrial, Freshwater
72   Z A 575.B      Kommetjie Wetland and Corridor Land Acquisition         and Marine                          No
                                                                            Protection o f Prioritised
                    Land Acquisition: ERF CA 948-10 Shiela vd Horst         Habitats: Terrestrial, Freshwater
73   Z A 5058       Property                                                and Marine                          No
                                                                            Protection o f Prioritised
                    CPNP - Erven 8607 (Saambou Bank) & 8562                 Habitats: Terrestrial, Freshwater
74   Z A 5008       (Winstrom) (in J P s office)                            and Marine                          No
                                                                            Protection o f Prioritised
                    CPNP: Wildeschutsbrandvlei Properties (in JP's          Habitats: Terrestrial, Freshwater
75   ZA 5009        office)                                                 and Marine                          No
                    Western Cape Wetland Inventory (The                     Protection o f Prioritised
                    Identification and Collation o f Existing Information   Habitats: Terrestrial, Freshwater
76   Z A 5095       on the Wetlands o f the Western Cape)                   and Marine                          No
                                                                            Protection of Prioritised
                    Viticulture on Mountain Slopes - Legal Precedent        Habitats: Terrestrial, Freshwater
77   Z A 5000       Viticulture on Mountain Slopes (in BMs office)          and Marine
                                                                            Protection of Prioritised
                    Prinskasteel / Keysers River Source-to-Sea              Habitats: Terrestrial, Freshwater
78   ZA 5103        Rehabilitation & Management Plan                        and Marine                          Yes         No
                                                                            Protection of Prioritised
                                                                            Habitats: Terrestrial, Freshwater
79   ZA 594         KarbonkeIberg Boundary Resolution                       and Marine                          No
                                                                            Protection o f Prioritised
                                                                            Habitats: Terrestrial, Freshwater
80   ZA 1041        Kalk Bay Land Acquisition                               and Marine                          No
                                                                            Protection o f Prioritised
     Z A 5073 and   Leopard & Stock Farmer Interactions in the              Habitats: Terrestrial, Freshwater
81   5073.1         BaviaanskloofMega-Reserve                               and Marine                          No
                                       31                                         Annex C


Annex C. Persons Consulted (TMF)
             Name   \                    Title                                  Agency
Little, Rob                 Conservation Director               WWF South Africa
Sandwith, Trevor            Coordinator: Cape Action for        South African National Biodiversity
                            People and the Environment/         Institute (SANBI)
                            Deputy Chair: IUCN World
                        I   Commission on Protected Areas   I
Barnett, Mandv          I   Prommme DeveloDer               I C.A.P.E.




                                                                    enbosch Univer


                                                                University o f Stellenbosch




Carlo de Cock
Gavin Bell
James Nowicki
Paul Sieben
Mandisa Mdala
Mike Slaven
Philip Prins
Brett Myrdal
Louis de villiers
