Report No. PID9779
Project Name                     Algeria-Transport Technical Assistance (@)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Ports & Waterways; Urban Transport; Other
Transportation
Project ID                       DZPE72458
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ALGERIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
119 rue Didouche Mourad, Alger,
Republique Algerienne Democratique et
Populaire
Contact Person: Mr. Ali Akrouf,
Conseiller du Ministre
Tel: 213 21 74 75 22
Fax: 213 21 29 23 60
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 7, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         November 20, 2001
Projected Board Date             April 26, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector issuesThe transport sector operates under burdensome managerial,
operational and financial structures developed under the former political
system. The transition to a market-oriented economy driven by private
investment, which is at the heart of the Government of Algeria (GoA) new
strategy, calls for drastic changes in the way transport is organized and
resources are allocated. A description of key issues is provided below.
Sector policy definition. Strategies for most transport sub-sectors have
yet to be formulated along founding principles of GoA's new policy. While
private sector involvement is emphasized, there is no legal or regulatory
framework in place to provide assurance to, or guarantee the rights of,
private investors. For instance, trucking and urban transport experienced
an explosion of services provided by the private sector; however, improper
regulations caused market failures, which hurt both the user and the
provider. While ports and airports are being opened to the private sector,
a lack of clear regulations might limit the quality of investors. In
railways, even though past sector policies have been self-serving, they
failed to maintain the role of rail services in the economy (its overall
market share is below 10%-). Limited private sector participation. In
ports, the Entreprises Publiques Economiques (EPEs) run practically all
services (private activities are limited to shiphandlers,
freightforwarders, and cargo handling on the land transport interface in
Algiers), and the same is true of the country's airports, managed by
Etablissements de Gestion des Services Aeroportuaires (EGSAs). While the
Societe Nationale des Transports Ferroviaires (SNTF) did unbundle part of
its special rail services, they remain wholly owned subsidiaries or joint
ventures with railway users in the public sector. In air transport, Air
Algerie (AA) is in competition with local private airlines on domestic



routes, but is the exclusive carrier on main international routes. Limited
competition in the market. This is the direct consequence of too many
public monopolies still in place. However, there are a few cases where
public enterprises lost their monopolies including in urban and air
transport. But, even in such cases, the competition is subdued. For
instance, private firms are barred from entering the most lucrative
markets (AA faces competition only on the domestic market where 60% of its
total flying hours only yields 15% of its total revenue), or require
subsidization (Etusa for urban transport within Algiers). Weak financial
status. For social reasons, tariffs for many transport services are
inadequate to cover costs. This contributes to poor performance, which is
the prevalent culture in most public enterprises, and triggers a spiral of
inefficiency and recurring financial problems, with GoA bailing out
foundering companies. Etusa, SNTF, and the national shipping lines, have
been primary recipients of GoA rescue packages. Infrastructure
investments are also subject to periodic squeezes since their sources of
financing comes primarily from the GoA budget, which has been hard hit by
the enduring economic crisis. This partially explains why the quality and
coverage of transport infrastructure is limited. Misconstrued investment
priorities Poor central planning has often led to suboptimal allocation of
budget resources. Ill-timed decisions and poor coordination of
complementary investments have perpetuated poor performance and missed
economic opportunity. Past railway investments are a good example of
misallocated resources. Over the last ten years, close to US$5 billion of
public funds were channeled to the railways; however, rail market shares
continued to decline. There is also insufficient coordination between the
Ministry of Transport (MoT) and the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), with
the latter generally in charge of infrastructure development planning and
endowed with the corresponding budget. Limited capacity to implement
investments. Weaknesses in the local consulting and contracting industry
are partially due to the stifling presence of dominant public firms, and
these public entities often have difficulties responding to the needs of
projects as they evolve. A burdensome budgetary process affects
disbursement of public funds. Two large projects exemplifies this issue:
(a) construction of a 12 km metro line which began in 1990 is only halfway
completed; (b) construction of the terminal building at Algiers airport
was halted a few years ago, and now requires some US$100 million to be
completed. Widespread overstaffing. This is an endemic problem for most
public transport enterprises. In some cases, shrinking business has
exacerbated the issue. For instance, AA has a fleet of 30 aircraft but
employs some 8,300 staff. The ailing shipping industry still employs about
8,000 staff and, even after the loss of 4,000 jobs over the last four
years, some 12,500 employees still work for the railway company, a number
which grossly exceeds needs.      The Government strategyThe GoA's strategy
for the sector is to modernize and expand transport infrastructure and
raise private foreign and local capital to support this. For commercial
services, the objective is to privatize remaining public enterprises and
encourage competition in the market. For public goods or services, private
sector participation will be sought under concession contracts. The new
strategy is based on a clear understanding of the issues described above
and on the realization that, with a need to reduce the budget deficit and
to mitigate the social impacts of moving to a market-based policy, there
will be fewer budget resources available for infrastructure investments,
given the priority assigned to social goals. What the GoA feels should be
clarified is the way to handle the increasing demands from prospective
-2 -



investors and select those that are good for the country in a long term
perspective. International expertise will be sought to guide and implement
the transport strategy. GoA has resolved to:Create an institutional
framework conducive to PPI. In acknowledgment of flaws that even recent
laws have carried over (for instance: Law 98-05 of June 27, 1998 for ports
and shipping; or Law 98-06 of June 27, 1998 for civil aviation),
amendments have been passed in December 2000 by the National Assembly so
as to bring the Algerian legislation more in line with international
standards.Widen the scope of competitive transport markets: the land
transport law is also being revised to, among other things, limit
monopolies. In air transport, signing of the Yamoussoukro Agreement
creating an open sky all across Africa in November 1999 shows a
willingness to liberalize markets beyond trucking and intercity bus
transport. Competition is expected to lead to better and more
cost-effective services across the transport sector.Divest commercial
public enterprises. Tap local dynamism by decentralizing government
responsibilities to the new port organization and by the proposed
reorganization of urban transport management in Algiers. Develop
regulatory capabilities that fit the circumstances of each sub-sector so
that private activities do not work against the common good. International
standards will be emulated.Streamline investment planning: while the GoA
doesn't necessarily seek to reduce its contribution to transport, it wants
to ensure that wherever public funds are channeled, they are put to
efficient use. In that regard, rehabilitating the railways is of the
highest priority.Mitigate negative social impacts of reform by seeking to
minimize staff redundancies through retraining, redeployment of the labor
force, controlling tariffs in markets where segments of the population are
socially vulnerable (urban transport for instance), and, as a last resort,
funding severance plans.The Government has embarked on a privatization
program of the more than 400 State-owned EPEs. A new privatization law,
amending the 1995 privatization laws, is under preparation and the
Government is expected to adopt a new privatization program encompassing
120 medium and large EPEs at the same time. This program is being
prepared by the Ministbre de la Participation et de la Coordination des
Reformes (MPCR), which will also be in charge of its implementation with
the help of the new privatization agency. The Bank Privatization
Assistance Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) approved in July 2000 is
supporting this policy which covers transport public enterprises. By
paving the way to private operations and investments on public land, the
proposed TA project is an indispensable complement to the LIL. Overall,
the GoA transport strategy is adequately focused and designed, and largely
in agreement with the Bank recommendations. Views may marginally differ on
the speed with which the transition should proceed (unbundling of port
EPEs for instance) or on transport as a public service, but the right
goals are set and the GoA has engaged in dialogue with the Bank which
will, with time, broaden the consensus on how to reach these goals.
2. Objectives
The Transport Strategy Note, which the Bank forwarded to the Government of
Algeria (GoA) in January 1999, outlined the need to modernize and expand
transport services and systems, and to improve the integration of
transport modes. The Project development objectives are therefore to: set
up a policy and institutional framework that will facilitate private
participation in infrastructure (PPI);demonstrate the viability of
mainstreaming transport concessions through successful launching of two
- 3-



subway and port Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) schemes; strengthen GoA's
capacity to manage and regulate the transport sector; andrehabilitate the
railways so that they contribute to better and more cost efficient
transport of people and freight nationwide.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Through the Transport Strategy Note, the Infrastructure Concession seminar
and the dialogue that led to preparation of the Transport TA project, a
consensus has emerged between the Ministry of Transport and the Bank on
the content of the sector reform.    The Algerian Government wants to
pursue private-public partnerships for development of its transport
infrastructure. Its lack of experience in PPI schemes has led the GoA to
seek assistance from the Bank. The Bank can best support the
implementation of PPI schemes by facilitating concession deals that are
truly beneficial to the country. The transparent procedures that will be
applied under the proposed project will likely have a positive
demonstration effect, which will support growth in public-private
partnerships.
4. Description
There are five components under the proposed project plus one dealing with
the project financial management system.
Component 1 Ports The port component is designed to (i) implement an
institutional framework for better public planning, land management and
regulation, while opening the delivery of services to private sector
participation under competitive conditions; and (ii) support concessioning
of international transshipment activities at Djendjen.
Component 2 Airports The airport component will: (i) adapt the national
airport policy framework to create conditions of financial sustainability
and allow for new airport concessions beyond the Algiers terminal building
concession; and (ii) develop local capacity to regulate PPI schemes.
Component 3 Air transport The air transport component is designed to (i)
upgrade the current regulatory framework; (ii) advise and train staff
accordingly; and (iii) update the national strategy to liberalize
international air transport and assist Direction de l'Aviation Civile
(DAC) in the upcoming renegotiation of a bilateral agreement with foreign
nations.
Component 4 Railways Based on the Bank diagnosis of intrinsic weaknesses
in the current system, the railway component will: (i) restructure SNTF to
be more competitive and financially sustainable; (ii) build staff skills,
particularly in areas of finance and marketing; and (iii) prepare a core
investment program in support of the rehabilitation strategy.
Component 5 Urban transport The urban transport component will: (i) set up
an autonomous management and regulatory authority in the Greater Algiers
and create conditions for harmonious development and adequate funding of
public transport, including the future subway system; and (ii) support
concessioning of this subway system.
Component 6 Project financial management This component will ensure that
the project's Financial Management System (FMS) complies with the Bank's
requirements for administration, reporting, and transaction recording. A
-4 -



quarterly Project Management Report (PMR) will be submitted based on
reliable and timely recorded information. A consultant will be hired to
set up the FMS and develop appropriate software (its cost will be financed
by the Bank loan).
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost               10.86
(Proposed Bank Loan              US$7.7 million)
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented by an adequately staffed Project
Management Unit (PMU) located within MoT. The PMU will be headed by a
staff at director's level who will coordinate project activities and
provide advice and guidance to representatives of the various transport
sub-sector directorates, and SNTF on project related matters. The director
will be assisted by a financial manager and an administrative officer who
will be in charge of the financial management and procurement activities
of the project respectively. PMU staff will be accountable for
establishing an adequate FMS, including interaction with MoT's budget
department and the Banque Algerienne de Developpement (BAD), and for
monitoring and reporting. The establishment of the PMU and appointment of
its staff is a Condition of Board Presentation.The MoT is familiar with
Bank procedures on project implementation, as it was the executing agency
for the Third Ports Project, which closed on June 30, 1998, and the
Algerian component of a regional GEF project. Risks of management failures
by the unit are therefore minimal.In order to steer project implementation
toward meeting its goals and to monitor the work done by the PMU, a
Management and Monitoring Committee will be set up by effectiveness and
headed by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Transport. It will
include representatives from other ministries involved in the project, as
well as participation from the Algiers Wilaya.In order to provide needed
authority and impetus to the establishment of an Urban Transport
Management Authority for the Greater Algiers area, a task force comprised
of senior staff from the Wilaya, the MoT and the Ministry of Finance will
be established and empowered to pilot studies, draw conclusions, and
present recommendations for decision by the Council of Ministers. The
establishment of the Task Force and nomination of its members are
Conditions of Project Effectiveness.All contracts will be approved by the
PMU. However, its various correspondents in specialized directorates
within the Ministry of Transport, including port, civil aviation and urban
transport directorates, and at SNTF, will, under the guidance of the PMU
manager, have delegated responsibility to prepare tenders, and negotiate
and execute contracts.Specific coordination arrangements will also be
needed with the Ministbre de la Participation et de la Coordination des
Reformes (MPCR) regarding the privatization of transport enterprises
(e.g., AA, port EPEs). MPCR is the executing agency for the Privatization
Technical Assistance Project (PTAP) and has its own project unit which is
familiar with Bank procedures. Implementation arrangements, including
those related to procurement, financial management and disbursement, will
be included in the Project Implementation Plan to be submitted in draft as
Condition of Negotiations and in its final form as a Condition of
Effectiveness.Project Financial Management System (FMS). Assessment of
the MoT financial management capacity, including its current
organizational structure, staffing, accounting and budgeting practices,
- 5 -



and internal controls, was undertaken during preparation. The evaluation,
which was conducted by a Financial Management Specialist, concluded that
MoT's financial, budgeting, and accounting functions are appropriately
performed and adequately staffed. The FMS is based on public accounting
procedures and principles, and uses an accounting system maintained on a
cash basis, as defined by the Algerian Public Accounting Law. All
transactions in terms of commitments and flow of funds are recorded
manually.In order to ease project implementation and monitor project
activity, a FMS will be developed for the PMU and set up with the
assistance of the same consultant who is preparing the FMS for the PTAP.
It will be implemented according to the agreed time-bound action plan.
The FMS will be based on the principles and procedures defined by the
national public accounting law and adapted to Bank's requirements for
efficient and transparent financial management arrangements. It will
include a Chart of Accounts, the preparation of a Financial Management
Procedures Manual (FMPM) describing the FMS to be established at the PMU
and internal control mechanisms, and the implementation of a data
processing system, which will include project activities, and training of
staff. The FMS will provide the tools for documenting the flow of funds
and operation of the project including preparation of Project Management
Reports (PMRs). Sample documents have been provided and MoT's Management
Information System (MIS) will assist the PMU to set up these tables. In
the meantime, PMU will enter into an agreement with the consultant who is
preparing the FMS/FMPM for the PTAP to adapt the FMS to this operation.
The FMS and related FMPM will be adopted by loan effectiveness. The final
PMRs format will be implemented no later than December 31, 2001.Auditing
Arrangements. The project financial statements maintained by the PMU, the
special account activities maintained by BAD, and SOE-based disbursement
prepared by the PMU will be audited by an independent auditor under terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank and according to international
standards of auditing. The auditor will review and give an opinion on the
financial statements, and prepare and submit separate opinions on the
accuracy and appropriateness of the project accounts, the activity of the
special account, and the use of statements of expenditures. The annual
audit reports and the reports on project and special account will be
submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal
year.Disbursements. Disbursements from the Bank loan will be made using
traditional procedures based on complete documentation, including
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and direct payments to consultants.
However, it was agreed that the FMS will be implemented to ensure that the
project is appropriately managed and to produce the required monitoring
arrangements and reporting (quarterly and annual PMRs). To facilitate
disbursement, a Special Account will be opened at the Central Bank of
Algeria (BA) and managed by BAD. The initial deposit into the SA will be
US$500,000. Disbursements out of the SA will be based on SOEs prepared by
the PMU and processed by BAD.Procurement. Consulting services will be
procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment
of Consultants (published in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999). Some 80 W of loan proceeds will be allocated to major
studies costing US$200,000 or more and for which expression of interest
will first be sought, followed by shortlisting.    Some 10t of loan proceeds
will be allocated to training, seminars and short-term consulting
services, which will consist primarily of small contracts (less than
US$20,000) that could be awarded to consultants selected on a sole source
basis. Study trips will be financed under the loan up to a cumulative
- 6 -



amount of US$50,000. For all studies and consulting services costing
US$100,000 or more per contract, the Bank prior review will be mandated.
Mid-Term Review. A mid-term review will be held no later than January 31,
2003. Its purpose is to assess the success and failures of implementation
with a focus on the institutional development in urban transport, the
railway rehabilitation and air transport liberalization, and to reach
agreement with the Borrower on measures to meet the project's development
objectives. In order to prepare the mid term review, a report on project
implementation will be submitted to the Bank by the Borrower on October
31, 2002 at latest.
7. Sustainability
The proposed TA project will build capacities in urban transport
management (in Algiers), in regulation (ports, airports, urban transport,
air transport) and in railway management and operations (commercial,
financial and technical functions). The TA package is designed to ensure
knowledge transfers. The performance of consultants is as critical as the
designation of local counterparts. Sound procurement of expert services
and efficient monitoring of TA missions by the Project Unit and by the
Bank will enhance the chances of successful capacity building.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A high level of Government commitment to project objectives and
establishment of an effective coordination mechanism when more than one
agency is involved are essential for successful project implementation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        It is not anticipated that the project will have
any direct environmental impacts. However, in two instances where the
project will prepare tendering (for the subway and the Djendjen port
concessions), a clear link will exist between project-related activities
and investments to follow. These projects will have environmental
consequences which will need to be addressed accordingly. Some related
tasks will be funded by the project.    Environmental aspects will be taken
into consideration when comparing policy and investment options: Terms of
reference for detailed environmental assessments will be prepared and
funded by the project for inclusion in the package of more detailed
feasibility studies which will be carried out before decisions are made to
program any investment. Master plan studies will be carried out for port
development nationwide and urban transport in Algiers, including self
standing environmental studies and audits for proposed investments.
Therefore, the environmental content of this project is not negligible and
a simplified Environmental Management Plan will be part of the Project
Implementation Plan in order to facilitate monitoring of environmental
activities under the project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Michel A. Loir
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
-7-



Telephone: 202-473-3101
Fax: 202-477-0348
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 9, 2001.
- 8 -



