Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22501-AL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.72 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
July 13, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2000)
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (AD)
ADI = US$0.013
US$l = AD75
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AA           =      Air Algerie
BA           =      Banque d,41#grie (Central Bank of Algeria)
BAD          =      Banque Algerienne de Developpement
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
DAC          =      Direction de I 'Aviation Civile
DEP          =      Direction des Equipements Publics
DFE          =      Direction des Finances Exterieures
EGSA         =      Etablissement de Gestion des Services Aeroportuaires
EMP                 Environmental Management Plan
ENNA         =      Entreprise Nationale de Navigation Aerienne
EPE          =      Entreprises Publiques Economiques
ERR          =      Econornic Rate of Retum
FMPM         =      Financial Management Procedure Manual
FMR          =      Financial Management Report
FMS          =      Financial Management System
FS           =      Financial Statement
GDP          =      Gross Domestic Product
GEF                 Global Environment Facility
GOA          =      Government of Algeria
HSCP         =      Holding Service, Chimie et Pharmacie
IBRD         =      Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDA          =      International Development Association
IGF          =      Inspection Generale des Finances
LIL          =      Learning and Innovation Loan
MIS          =      Management Information System
MoT          =      Ministry of Transport
MPCR         =      Ministere de la Participation et de la Coordination des Reformes
MPW                 Ministry of Public Works
NGO          =      Non-Govenmnental Organization
NPV          =      Net Present Value
PIP          =      Project Implementation Plan
PMR          =      Project Management Report
PMU          =      Project Management Unit
PPI                 Private sector Participation in Infrastructure
PTAP         =      Privatization Technical Assistance Project
SA                  Special Account
SIEGA        =      Societe d'Exploitation et de Gestion Aeroportuaire
SNTF         =      Societi Nationale des Transports Ferroviaires
SOE          =      Statement of Expenses
TA           =      Technical Assistance
TOR                 Terms of Reference
Vice President:        Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:             Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:            Emmanuel Forestier
Task Team  Leader/Task Manager:                Michel Loir



ALGERIA
TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                         7
3. Benefits and target population                                                        7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                         8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                  11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             12
2. Financial                                                                            12
3. Technical                                                                            12
4. Institutional                                                                        12
5. Environmental                                                                        13
6. Social                                                                               13
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       15
2. Critical risks                                                                       15
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       15



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             16
2. Other                                                                               16
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           16
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         17
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           18
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    21
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           41
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     42
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        43
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      57
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    58
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   69
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             61



ALGERIA
TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSIF
Date: June 26, 2001                               Team Leader: Michel A. Loir
Country Director: Mr. Christian Delvoie           Sector Director: Mr. Emmanuel Forestier
Project ID: P072458                               Sector(s): TP - Ports & Waterways, TU - Urban
Transport, TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ 3 Credit   [ Grant       [] Guarantee      1 Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 8.72
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                           Years to maturity: 14.5
Commitment fee: 0.85% for first four years; 0.75%  Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
thereafter
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                             Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        1.56           0.93           2.49
IBRD                                                            0.00           8.72           8.72
FOREIGN SOURCES (IJNIDENTIFIED)                                 0.00           0.04           0.04
Total:                                                          1.56           9.69          11.25
Borrower: PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
Address: 119 rue Didouche Mourad, Alger, Republique Algerienne Democratique et Populaire
Contact Person: Mr. Ali Akrouf, Conseiller du Ministre
Tel: 213 2174 75 22            Fax: 213 21 29 23 60           Email:
Contact Person: Mr. Ali Akrouf, Chief of the Project Management Unit
Tel: 213 21 74 75 22           Fax: 213 21 74 75 23           Email: aa520822@yahoo.fr
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$m):
FY         2002       2003   1   2004       2005       2006
Annual    2.64        4.10        1.78      0.20
Cumulative    2.64        6.74       8.52       8.72
Project implementation period: Decembre 2001 to December 2004
Expected effectiveness date: 12/31/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
O:S PAO F-n    MR,e h -D0  -                           -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Transport Strategy Note, which the Bank forwarded to the Govermment of Algeria (GoA) in January
1999, outlined the need to modernize and expand transport services and systems, and to improve the
integration of transport modes. The Project development objectives are therefore to:
*   set up a policy and institutional framework that will facilitate private participation in infrastructure
(PPI);
*   demonstrate the viability of mainstreaming transport concessions through successful launching of two
schemes, one as a Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) for the Algiers subway, the other as a concession to
operate part of the port of Djendjen;
*   strengthen GoA's capacity to manage and regulate the transport sector; and
*   rehabilitate the railways so that they contribute to better and more cost efficient transport of people and
freight nationwide.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
*   Private sector participation in port services delivery effective by 2005.
*   New port and airport PPI schemes launched by 2005 respectively covering at least 1 million tons (mt)
of general cargo and over 500,000 passengers.
* Over 25% of international air traffic liberalized and urban transport in Algiers fully funded by 2005.
*   Combined rail market share of over 15% by 2005.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R96-15 [Rev.]            Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/27/96
A new CAS is under preparation. The January 1999 Transport Sector Strategy Note and the ongoing
dialogue between the Bank and the Government of Algeria have identified issues that are critical
bottlenecks to the liberalization of the transport sector, itself necessary to achieve faster economic growth
and deeper integration with the global economy
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector issues
The transport sector operates under burdensome managerial, operational and financial structures developed
under the former centralized and socialist political system. The transition to a market-oriented economy
driven by private investment, which is at the heart of the GoA's new strategy, calls for drastic changes in
the way transport is organized and resources are allocated. A review of each sub-sector is given in Annex
2, and a description of key issues provided below.
* Sector policy definition. Strategies for most transport sub-sectors have yet to be formulated along
founding principles of GoA's new policy. While private sector involvement is emphasized, there is
no legal or regulatory framework in place to provide assurance to, or guarantee the rights of,
private investors. For instance, trucking and urban transport experienced an explosion of services
provided by the private sector, however, improper regulations caused market failures, which hurt
both the user and the provider. While ports and airports are being opened to the private sector, a
lack of clear regulations might limit the quality of investors. Also verified in other subsectors, the
influence of cumbersome management systems of the past still pervades railway policies with a
- 2 -



negative impact on productivity (the overall railway market share has fallen to below 10%). In
general and all too often in the past, sector policies have been focused on serving the interest of
public monopolies in operation.
*   Limited private sector participation. In ports, the Entreprises Publiques Economiques (EPEs)
run practically all services (private activities are limited to ship handlers, freight forwarders, cargo
handling on the land transport interface), and the same is true of the country's airports, managed by
Etablissements de Gestion des Services Aeroportuaires (EGSAs). While the Societe Nationale
des Transports Ferroviaires (SNTF) did unbundle part of its special rail services, they remain
wholly owned subsidiaries or joint ventures with railway users in the public sector. In air transport,
Air Algerie (AA) is in competition with local private airlines on domestic routes, but is the
exclusive carrier on main international routes.
*   Limited competition in the market. This is the direct consequence of too many public monopolies
still in place. However, there are a few cases where public enterprises lost their monopolies
including in urban and air transport. But, even in such cases, the competition is subdued. Private
firms are barred from entering specific markets (for instance Etusa for urban bus transport within
Algiers), sometimes because they are lucrative (AA faces competition only on the domestic market
where 60% of its total flying hours only yields 15% of its total revenue).
* Weak financial status. Most transport services are deemed public in nature and special constraints
bear on providers which are not fully compensated. Together with a lack of strong incentives to
raise productivity, it maintains a climate conducive to financial weaknesses especially for railways
and urban transport companies and the Government must bear the burden of costly financial
restructuring plans. Infrastructure investments are also subject to periodic squeezes since their
sources of financing comes primarily from the GoA budget, which has been hard hit by the recent
economic crisis. This partially explains why the quality and coverage of transport infrastructure is
limited and this again has a negative impact on operational performance.
-   Misconstrued investment priorities. Central planning has often led to suboptimal allocation of
budget resources. Ill-timed decisions and poor coordination of complementary investments have
perpetuated poor performance and missed economic opportunity. Past railway investments are a
good example of misallocated resources. Over the last ten years, close to US$5 billion of public
funds were channeled to the railways, however rail market shares continued to decline. There is
also insufficient coordination between the Ministry of Transport (MoT) and the Ministry of Public
Works (MPW), with the latter generally in charge of infrastructure development planning and
endowed with the corresponding budget.
*   Limited capacity to implement investments. Weaknesses in the local consulting and contracting
industry are partially due to the large presence of dominant public firms, and these public entities
often have difficulties responding to the needs of projects as they evolve. A burdensome budgetary
process affects disbursement of public funds. Two large projects exemplify this issue: (a) the
construction of a 12 km metro line, which began in 1990, is only one third through completion; (b)
the construction of the terminal building at Algiers airport was halted a few years ago, and now
requires some US$100 million to be completed.
*   Widespread overstaffing. This is an endemic problem for most public transport enterprises. In
some cases, shrinking business has exacerbated the issue. For instance, Air Algerie has a fleet of
some 40 aircraft but employs some 8,300 staff. The ailing shipping industry still employs about
8,000 staff and, even after the loss of 4,000 jobs over the last four years, some 12,500 employees
still work for the railway company, a number which grossly exceeds needs.
The Government strategy
The GoA's strategy for the sector as outlined in a Note issued by the MoT in April 2001 is to modernize
and expand transport infrastructure and raise private foreign and local capital in support of this goal. For
- 3 -



commercial services, the objective is to privatize remaining public enterprises and encourage competition in
the market. For public goods or services, private sector participation will be sought under concession
contracts. The new strategy is based on a clear understanding of the issues described above and on the
realization that, with a need to reduce the budget deficit and to mitigate the social impacts of moving to
market-based policy, there will be fewer budget resources available for infrastructure investments, given
the priority assigned to social goals. What the GoA feels should be clarified is the way to handle the
increasing demands from prospective investors and select those that are good for the country in a long term
perspective. International expertise will be sought to guide and implement the transport strategy. GoA has
resolved to:
*   Create an institutional framework conducive to PPI. In acknowledgment of flaws that even recent
laws have carried over (for instance: Law 98-05 of June 27, 1998 for ports and shipping; or Law
98-06 of June 27, 1998 for civil aviation), amendments have been passed in December 2000 by the
National Assembly.
*  Widen the scope of competitive transport markets: the land transport law is also being revised to,
among other things, eliminate monopolies. In air transport, signing of the Yamoussoukro
Agreement creating an open sky all across Africa in November 1999 shows a willingness to
liberalize markets beyond trucking and intercity bus transport. Competition is expected to lead to
better and more cost-effective services across the transport sector.
3   Opening the equity of public enterprises to private investors.
3 Tap local dynamism by decentralizing government responsibilities to the new port organization and
by the proposed reorganization of urban transport management in Algiers.
a Develop regulatory capabilities that fit the circumstances of each sub-sector so that private
activities do not work against the common good. International standards will apply.
-   Streamline investment planning: while the GoA is not necessarily after reducing its contribution to
transport, it wants to ensure that wherever public funds are channeled, they are put to efficient use.
In that regard, rehabilitating the railways is of the highest priority.
3   Mitigate negative social impacts of reform by seeking to minimize staff redundancies through
retraining, redeployment of the labor force, controlling tariffs in markets where segments of the
population are socially vulnerable (urban transport for instance), and, as a last resort, funding
severance plans.
The Government has embarked on a privatization program of the more than 400 State-owned EPEs. A
new privatization law, amending the 1995 privatization laws, is under preparation and the Government is
expected to adopt a new privatization program encompassing 120 medium and large EPEs at the same
time. This program is being prepared by the Ministere de la Participation et de la Coordination des
Reformes (MPCR), which will also be in charge of its implementation with the help of the new
privatization agency. The Bank Privatization Assistance Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) approved in
July 2000 is supporting this policy, which covers transport public enterprises. By paving the way to private
operations and investments on public land, the proposed TA project is an indispensable complement to the
LIL.
Overall, the GoA transport strategy is adequately focused and designed, and largely in agreement with the
Bank recommendations. Views may marginally differ on the speed with which the transition should proceed
(unbundling of port EPEs for instance) or on transport as a public service, but the right goals are set and
the GoA has engaged in dialogue with the Bank which will, with tirne, broaden the consensus on how to
reach these goals.
-4 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The above-mentioned Bank transport strategy note, the seminar on infrastructure concession held in Algiers
on June 10-1 1, 2000, and the mid-July high level meeting between the Bank and the Government to discuss
the future of Bank assistance to Algeria helped sharpen the proposed strategy and identify focal points for
Bank assistance to the transport sector. Main sector issues are addressed by the project which will:
*   establish an appropriate policy framework for PPI in ports, airports and the Algiers subway;
*   restructure a defective organization of urban transport which, in Algiers, could undermine the
success of the subway;
* strengthen regulatory capabilities that are now ill-suited to handle the challenge of PPI and private
sector development;
* correct railways inefficiencies that drain the GoA budget;
* address the marginal impact to date of trade facilitation initiatives.
Strategic choices focus on helping the GoA define and implement an appropriate PPI framework, build
needed regulatory capabilities, reorganize urban transport, and turn around SNTF. The sector background
where the strategy is rooted is given in annex 2 and summarized hereafter.
*   In ports, the Law 98-05 of June 25, 1998 and the Executive Decree of August 18, 1999 set the stage
for an in-depth port reform that the project will help implement. The strategy is to: (a) support the
installation of three new Regional Port Authorities; (b) advise the GoA on drafting the detailed
legislation in order to set up a concession framework conducive to PPI; (c) develop port regulatory
capabilities at the MoT; (d) harmonize national port development by financing a Strategic Plan; (e)
provide a new impetus to trade facilitation actions; (f) develop a private sector participation blue print,
port by port and service by service; (g) prepare concessioning of part of the Djendjen port.
-   In airports, the primary objective is to create a policy framework for development of airport
concessions, and ensure that the parallel concessioning of the Algiers terminal building is consistent
with maintaining the operational and financial integrity of the national airport network. The secondary
objective is to build airport regulatory capabilities. The outcome of the TA project is to broaden the
scope of airport concessions by identifying those in isolation or in clusters that could be offered to
prospective bidders.
*   In air transport, the Project will support GoA's liberalization strategy. There is a compelling need to
harnonize the pace of AA's privatization and liberalization of the intemational air transport market.
The TA project will address this need by informing and providing guidance to the Direction de
l'Aviation Civile et de la Meteorologie (DAC) in its upcoming negotiations of air transport agreements
with foreign countries. The focus will be on adapting regulations and building regulatory capabilities,
and on setting forth a strategy for development of the national air transport industry in a competitive
market.
*   In rail transport, the Bank carried out an in-depth diagnosis of the sub-sector which concluded that (a)
SNTF lacked autonomy; (b) public service obligations were imposed on the company without proper
financial compensation; (c) investment choices did not rely on solid economic justifications; (d)
maintenance failed to cover needs resulting in low rolling stock availability rates; (e) the financial
functions were weak, from general accounting to costing; (f) the marketing policy lacked selectivity; (g)
the service and work subsidiaries had little incentive to live up to their potential; and (h) human
resources management lacked dynamism. The project will seek to create a new legal framework for
railway management and operations; streamline management of persomnel, finances and maintenance;
define a strategy for modemization of telecommunications; develop public-private partnerships for
infrastructure development and upgrading; and pursue other privatization opportunities for non core
services.
-5 -



*   In urban transport, one of the GoA priority is to complete the Algiers subway system. The project
will make sure that when it starts, the subway will operate in an environment that sustains it. The
project strategy is to develop such an environment and build an organization with the capacity to plan
and coordinate the various transport modes, to fund investmnents and public service obligations and
make for financially sustainable public transport. The project has a broader scope than the subway
itself, and while limited to Algiers, it will develop an organizational blueprint that could be replicated
elsewhere. In short, the project will (a) assist in setting up a management authority in the Greater
Algiers; (b) study future mobility needs and devise a transport master plan; (c) adapt the traffic plan to
alleviate current constraints; (d) diagnose air quality as a starting point of broader follow up action
toward curbing transport pollution.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
There are five components under the proposed project plus one dealing with the project financial
management system. Costs are net of taxes.
Component I - Ports. The port component is designed to (i) implement an institutional framework for
better public planning, land management and regulation, while opening the delivery of services to private
sector participation under competitive conditions; and (ii) support concessioning of international
transshipment activities within the port of Djendjen.
Component 2 - Airports. The airport component is designed to: (i) adapt the national airport policy
framework to create conditions of financial sustainability and allow for new airport concessions; (ii)
ensure an harmonious integration of the Algiers airport in the new framework; and (iii) develop local
regulatory capacities.
Component 3 - Air transport  The air transport component is designed to: (i) update the national
strategy to liberalize international air transport and assist DAC as needed in upcoming negotiations with
foreign nations of air transport treaties; (ii) develop a regulatory framework consistent with the strategy;
(iii) strengthen regulatory capacities and train staff to that effect.
Component 4 - Railways. The railway component is designed to: (i) restructure SNTF to be more
competitive and financially sustainable; (ii) build staff skills particularly in areas of finance and marketing;
and (iii) prepare a core investment program in support of the rehabilitation strategy.
Component S - Urban transport The urban transport component will: (i) set up an autonomous
management and regulatory authority in the Greater Algiers and create conditions for harmonious
development and adequate funding of public transport, including the future subway system; and (ii) support
concessioning of this subway system.
Component 6 - Project financial management. This component will ensure that the project's Financial
Management System (FMS) complies with the Bank's requirements for administration, reporting, and
transaction recording. A quarterly Project Management Report (PMR) will be submitted based on reliable
and timely recorded infornation. A consultant will be hired to set up the FMS and develop appropriate
software (its cost will be financed by the Bank loan). Office equipment needed to run the FMS will also be
purchased and financed from local sources.
- 6 -



indicative             Bank-       % of
Component                    Sector        Costs      %h of    financing    Bank^
WUS$M)    Total       (US$M)  financing
1. Ports                            TP                   2.48       22.0       2.09       24.0
2. Airports                         TV                   0.40        3.6       0.34        3.9
3. Air transport                    TV                   0.57        5.1       0.49        5.6
4. Railways                         TW                   3.76       33.4       2.90       33.3
5. Urban transport                  TU                   3.90       34.7       2.79       32.0
6. Project financial management     BF                   0.05        0.4       0.02        0.2
Total Project Costs                    11.16      99.2       8.63       99.0
Front-end fee                     0.09        0.8       0.09        1.0
Total Financing Required                     11.25      100.0       8.72      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Given that much in the project content is about implementing reforms already adopted by the Government,
there are just four areas where local consensus has yet to be built.
3   Creation and empowerment of an urban transport authority in major cities starting with Algiers.
Design and implementation of reforms in urban transport will require close cooperation between the
Wilaya and MoT. The TA project will seek to foster this cooperation and answer technical and
fmancial questions associated with the urban transport reform, and act as a consensus building
mechanism.
* Railway reform. The Government is concerned about the current status of the railways and intent on
their restructuring. There might be resistance by those who view railway services as a public
responsibility. Therefore, the project will particularly aim at creating conditions for a consensus to
emerge and for good communication with all stakeholders.
*  Air transport liberalization. It will have to be founded on the principle of equal treatment for all
airlines both on the domestic and the international markets.
*   Elimination of excess labor in transport. Excess labor inflates costs and discourages PPI. This will
remain the case as long as a comprehensive staff reduction plan is not formulated. A risk exists that
PPI through providing market access to new competitors will give newcomers an edge over former
monopolies facing labor issues, causing the latter to go bankrupt and resulting in large scale lay-offs.
Project activities will raise awareness of those issues and advise on the most effective ways to handle
them to best mitigate social transition costs. By the project's mid-term review (MTR), the impact of
social issues will have been determined, along with an outline and costing of various social plans.
These activities could be launched as a follow up to the technical assistance project.
3. Benefits and target population:
Generally, the population at large will benefit from reforms implemented under the project. The coverage
and frequency of services for transporting people and freight would improve. Taxpayers will eventually
bear lower transport subsidies when the project's new policies are implemented, since private capital will be
a partial substitute for public investment funds, and the financial rehabilitation of the railways will also
reduce the need for budget support. More broadly, the proposed project will generate substantial benefits
that will pervade the economic system. By its nature, this operation does not warrant a cost benefit
analysis.
-7-



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented by an adequately staffed Project Management Unit (PMU) located within
MoT. The PMU will be headed by a staff at director's level who will coordinate project activities and
provide advice and guidance to representatives of the various transport sub-sector directorates, and SNTF
on project-related matters. The director will be assisted by a financial manager and an administrative
officer, who will be in charge of the financial management and procurement activities of the project
respectively. PMU staff will be accountable for establishing an adequate FMS, including interaction with
MoT's budget department and the Banque AIgerienne de Developpement (BAD), and for monitoring and
reporting. The establishment of the PMU and appointment of its staff is a Condition of Board Presentation.
The MoT is familiar with Bank procedures on project implementation, as it was the executing agency for
the Third Ports Project, which closed on June 30, 1998, and the Algerian component of a regional GEF
project. Risks of management failures by the unit are therefore minimal.
In order to steer project implementation toward meeting its goals and to monitor the work done by the
PMU, a Coordination and Steering Committee will be set up by effectiveness and headed by the Secretary
General of the Ministry of Transport. It will include representatives from other ministries involved in the
project, as well as participation from the Algiers Wilaya.
In order to provide needed authority and impetus to the establishment of an Urban Transport Management
Authority for the Greater Algiers area, a task force comprised of senior staff from the Wilaya, the MoT
and the Ministry of Finance will be established and empowered to pilot studies, draw conclusions and
present reconunendations for decision by the Council of Ministers. The establishment of the Task Force
and nomination of its members are Conditions of Disbursement under the urban transport component.
All contracts will be approved by the PMU. However, its various correspondents in specialized directorates
within the Ministry of Transport, including port, civil aviation, land transport and urban transport
directorates, and at SNTF, will, under the guidance of the PMU manager, have delegated responsibility to
prepare tenders, and negotiate and execute contracts.
Specific coordination arrangements will also be needed with the Ministere de la Participation et de la
Coordination des Reforrnes (MPCR) regarding the privatization of transport enterprises (e.g. AA; port
EPEs). MPCR is the executing agency for the Privatization Technical Assistance Project (PTAP) and has
its own project unit which is familiar with Bank procedures.
Implementation arrangements, including those related to procurement, financial management and
disbursement, will be included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) submitted in draft as Condition of
Negotiations. The final PIP will be submitted as a Condition of Effectiveness.
Project Financial Management System (FMS). A review and assessment of the FMS of the MoT, and the
set up of the FMS of the project are detailed in Annex 6 and summarized below.
Assessment of the MoT financial management capacity, including its current organizational structure,
staffing, accounting and budgeting practices, and internal controls, was undertaken during preparation.
The evaluation, which was conducted by a Financial Management Specialist, concluded that MoT's
financial, budgeting, and accounting functions are appropriately performed and adequately staffed. The
FMS is based on public accounting procedures and principles, and uses an accounting system maintained
- 8 -



on a cash basis, as defined by the Algerian Public Accounting Law. All transactions in terms of
commitments and flow of funds are recorded manually.
In order to ease project implementation and monitor project activity, a FMS will be developed for the PMU
and set up with the assistance of the same consultant who is preparing the FMS for the PTAP. It will be
implemented according to the agreed time-bound action plan detailed in Annex 6. The FMS will be based
on the principles and procedures defined by the national public accounting law and adapted to Bank's
requirements for efficient and transparent financial management arrangements. It will include a Chart of
Accounts, the preparation of a Financial Management Procedures Manual (FMPM) describing the FMS to
be established at the PMU and intemal control mechanisms, and the implementation of a data processing
system, which will include project activities, and training of staff. The FMS will provide the tools for
documenting the flow of funds and operation of the project including preparation of Project Management
Reports (PMRs). Regarding the implementation of the FMS and building the data base, it was agreed that
the PMU, during the interim period, will adapt PMRs (1-A, 3-A, 3-B), using excel software to monitor and
record data related to the project. Sample documents have been provided and MoT's Management
Information System (MIS) will assist the PMU to set up these tables. In the meantime, PMU will enter into
an agreement with the consultant who is preparing the FMS/FMPM for the PTAP to adapt the FMS to this
operation. The FMS and related FMPM will be adopted by loan effectiveness. The final PMRs format
will be implemented not later than June 30, 2002.
Auditing Arrangements. The project financial statements maintained by the PMU, the special account
activities maintained by BAD, and SOE-based disbursement prepared by the PMU would be audited by an
independent auditor under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and according to intemational
standards of auditing. The auditor will review and give an opinion on the financial statements, and prepare
and submit separate opinions on the accuracy and appropriateness of the project accounts, the activity of
the special account, and the use of statements of expenditures. The annual audit reports and the reports on
project and special account will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal
year.
Disbursements. Disbursements from the Bank loan will be made using traditional procedures based on
complete documentation, including Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and direct payments to consultants.
However, it was agreed that the FMS will be implemented to ensure that the project is appropriately
managed and to produce the required monitoring arrangements and reporting (quarterly PMRs). To
facilitate disbursement, a Special Account will be opened at the Central Bank of Algeria (BA) and managed
by BAD. The initial deposit into the SA will be US$870,000. The detailed financial management and
disbursement arrangements are summarized in Annex 6.
Procurement. Consulting services will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants (published in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
Some 80 % of loan proceeds will be allocated to major studies costing US$200,000 or more and for which
expression of interest will first be invited followed by short listing Some 10% of loan proceeds will be
allocated to training, seminars and short-term consulting services, which will consist primarily of small
contracts (less than US$20,000) that could be awarded to consultants selected on a sole source basis. Study
trips will be financed under the loan up to a cumulative amount of US$50,000. For all studies and
consulting services costing US$100,000 or more per contract, the Bank prior review will be mandated.
Further details on procurement rules are provided in Annex 6.
Mid-Term Review. A mid-term review will be held no later than January 31, 2003. In particular, its
purpose is to assess the success and failures of implementation with, among other things, a focus on the
-9-



institutional development in urban transport, the railway rehabilitation and air transport liberalization, and
to reach agreement with the Borrower on measures to meet the project's development objectives. In order
to prepare the mid term review, a report on project implementation will be submitted to the Bank by the
Borrower on October 31, 2002 at latest.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Investment projects could have been considered for each of the sub-sectors covered by the proposed TA.
However, establishing a proper policy framework first is essential, and this would have kept loan resources
earmarked for investments idle until after the second or third year, a costly proposition. In some cases, a
concession contract would have to be signed before knowing the share of investments that would be covered
by the GoA, and hence the amount of lending that the Bank could bring to cover part of this share. In
addition, since signing of concession contracts can take up to a few years, there is added uncertainty as to
the size of the investment portion in the Bank loan, and the timing of its mobilization by the Borrower. It is
preferable to separate the institution building financed under the proposed TA project from the investment
part, which could be taken up in a follow on project and/or by other donors and investment banks.
An adaptable program loan could have met the above-stated requirements, but its preparation would have
taken much longer. During the mid-July meeting with Bank management, the GoA clearly expressed its
need for fast processing of a Bank operation in the transport sector. They wanted to tackle ports, airports,
air transport and subway policy and institutional issues in earnest, and the proposed TA loan is therefore
more responsive to their request. The Government's preference for a fast TA loan was confirmed during the
preparation mission.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
*   The only ongoing transport project is the Sixth Highway Project.  Suspended in 1999, loan
disbursements resumed on February 9, 2000 upon assurances received that outstanding issues had been
properly resolved. The project was recently withdrawn from the list of projects at risk.
v  The Third Port Project came to closure on June 30, 1998. The Implementation Completion Report
concluded that the project outcome was satisfactory and that it met its development objectives.
- 1 0 -



Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
iBank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Road maintenance and capacity      Sixth Highway Project (Loan       S              S
building in central and local road  3839-AL: US$130 m) -
management, plus development of a    ongoing -
road fund
Strengthening port management and the Third Ports Project (Loan      S              S
finances of port enterprises; catching   3105-AL: US$63 m) - closed -
up with technological gaps by financing
container facilities in three major ports.
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A high level of Government commitment to project objectives and establishment of an effective
coordination mechanism when more than one agency is involved are essential for successful project
implementation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Borrower requested this project during the mid-July meeting with the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Management Team. The preparation mission was greatly facilitated by MoT officials, who
engaged in frank discussions on transport issues and provided all infonnation requested in a fully
satisfactory manner. Ownership is evidenced by the mobilization of local resources in support of project
preparation and the broad sharing of views with the Bank regarding the need for, and orientation of,
transport reforms.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Through the Transport Strategy Note, the Infrastructure Concession seminar, and the dialogue that led to
preparation of the Transport TA project, a consensus has emerged between the Ministry of Transport and
the Bank on the content of the sector reform. The Algerian Government wanted to pursue private-public
partnerships for development of its transport infrastructure, but the relative isolation of the country over the
last decade and the lack of local experience in PPI schemes led them to seek assistance from the Bank. The
Bank can best support the implementation of PPI schemes by facilitating concession deals that are truly
beneficial to the country. The transparent procedures to be applied under the proposed project will likely
have a positive demonstration effect, which will support growth in public-private partnerships. Finally,
Bank assistance will provide comfort to quality investors who, otherwise, might be discouraged from
bidding for transport concessions and transport privatization transactions in Algeria.
- 11 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
This project does not lend itself to an economic evaluation.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
No project cost recovery is expected, therefore no financial analysis is warranted.
Fiscal Impact:
3. Technical:
The project will not finance investments. It will in one case (the Algiers subway) finance technical studies
to ascertain soundness of works already carried out and measure technical risks in completing the tunnel.
Technical issues identified will be addressed by those same studies.
4. Institutional:
This TA project has a strong emphasis on building institutional capacity, as detailed in Annex 2.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Ministry of Transport
4.2 Project management:
The MoT will manage the project through a PMU that will have responsibility for coordinating the project's
implementation and consolidating related technical and financial data. The PMU will have counterparts in
each subsector unit within the MoT, at SNCFT and BAD to handle the procurement and financial activities
under its supervision.
An FMPM will be developed, including a description of financial management policies and procedures, and
internal control arrangements, definition of roles and responsibilities of PMU staff and of their counterparts
in BAD, and timetables and frequencies for preparing and transmitting financial data.
4.3 Procurement issues:
None
4.4 Financial management issues:
No significant FMS issues are anticipated. The PMU to be created under the MoT will be responsible for
consolidating financial and administrative information provided by the participating subsectors for the
project. The PMU would have appropriate means and skills, and will provide training to all staff in charge
of managing financial transactions related to the project to consolidate data, generate financial reports, and
monitor project activities
The possibility of a delay in creating the PMU or in preparing PMRs are mitigated by the following:
*   GoA's commitment to create and maintain a well staffed PMU before Board Presentation;
* designation of representatives from each department in the MoT and a counterpart in BAD responsible
- 12 -



for handling all disbursement aspects of the project;
* hiring a consultant to define procedures, which would in particular govern management of project
expenditures, and to adapt an adequate computerized system for PMR; and
*   implementation of computerized FMS to be run by the PMU.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
It is not anticipated that the project will have any direct environmental impacts. However, the transport
sector does raise a number of issues related to infrastructure maintenance and construction, operations of
motor vehicles and associated gas emissions, oil and gas spillages, noise, etc... Road safety is another area
of concern. In two instances where the project will prepare tendering for concessioning of the subway and
part of the Djendjen port, a clear link will exist between project-related activities and investments to follow.
These projects will have environmental consequences which will need to be addressed accordingly and
related tasks will be funded by the project. Master plans studies will also be carried out for ports and
urban transport in Algiers. Environmental aspects will be taken into consideration when comparing policy
and investment options: terms of reference for detailed environmental assessments will be prepared and
funded by the project for inclusion in the package of more detailed feasibility studies, which will be carried
out before decisions are made to program any investment. Finally, development of local regulatory
capacities will include environmental safeguarding.
Many of studies and consulting services included in the project will therefore include parts and input
dealing with the environment. In addition, there will be self standing environmental studies regarding the
Algiers subway and the port of Djendjen. Therefore, the environmental content of this project is not
negligible and a simplified Environmental Management Plan will be part of the Project Implementation
Plan in order to facilitate monitoring of environmental activities under the project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The simplified EMP will cover studies on potentially negative envirornental impacts associated with
investments recommended by the project, setting up of a framework for dealing with environmnental aspects
in concession contracts, and capacity building to regulate transport in relation to the environment
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The terns of reference of environmental studies related to the Algiers subway project and the Port of
DjenDjen will include a provision for consultation with focus groups (potential subway users, local
municipalities, elected officials, etc..).
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
A simplified EMP will be monitored through project supervision and reporting by the PMU.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
- 13-



Urban transport raises affordability issues. The project includes household surveys in the Greater Algiers
area that will, among other purposes, sharpen the diagnosis on how mobility needs are currently satisfied
and provide guidelines on establishing a future tariff policy for subsidizing transport modes, particularly
the subway.
In general, the project will examine the issue of staff redundancies in the sub-sectors. A framework for
preparation of social plans will be worked out. The World Bank support to their implementation could
then be envisaged.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Not applicable
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not applicable
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Since the project will only design, and not implement a framework for social plans, it will be left to the
Government to ensure that social needs are properly addressed. One can expect the Government to be
particularly cautious in handling the issue of overstaffing, which will be one of the most effective
safeguards against decisions that could adversely affect workers.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The social development outcomes will not be monitored under this TA project because they will materialize
under follow up operations, which will devise appropriate monitoring strategies in due course.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes X  No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 430)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable
- 14 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The proposed TA project will build capacities in urban transport management (in Algiers), in regulation
(ports, airports, urban transport, air transport) and in railway management and operations (commercial,
financial and technical functions). The TA package is designed to ensure knowledge transfers. The
performance of consultants is as critical as the designation of local counterparts. Sound procurement of
expert services and efficient monitoring of TA missions by the Project Unit and by the Bank will enhance
the chances of successful capacity building.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating          - Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Less than adequate staffing of the urban   M         Training provided under the project and
transport agency created in Algiers and              mid-term review by the Bank.
insufficient funding.
Low quality private sector entry in the    M         Selection criteria and performance monitoring
market of port services.                             systems will be devised under the project.
Concessioning of the Algiers airport       N         Coordination between project activities and
inconsistent with maintaining a financially          concessioning of the Algiers terminal by DACM
sustainable national airport network.                will minimize that risk.
Decision by Government to end its           N        Mid-term review by the Bank.
transport liberalization policy.
From Components to Outputs
Disagreement between the Ministry of       M         Coordination body to be set up as a condition of
Transport and the Algiers Wilaya in                  disbursement, plus mid-term review by the
setting up and funding an urban transport            Bank.
agency.
Handling of the concessioning process.     N          Sound procurement; close monitoring.
Weak consulting services                   N         Sound procurement; close monitoring.
Weak private sector response to the        M         Good design of the incentive framework by
incentive framework developed under the              project-financed consultants.
project.
Resistance to change.                       S        Good communication of the outcome of the
project-financed studies.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
M
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
- 15-



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
- Submission of the final PIP.
- Establishment of the Coordination and Steering Committee.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Condition of Board vresentation
- Establishment of the PMU including designation of its members.
,Condition of disbursement
- Establishment of a task force including nomination of participating senior staff from the Ministry of
Interior and Local Collectivities, the Algiers Wilaya, the MoT and the Ministry of Finance, with
appropriate delegation of powers, to prepare the technical work leading to the creation of the Urban
Transport Management Authority for the Greater Algiers, and to submit related measures to the GoA's
decision, is a Condition of Disbursement under the Urban Transport Component.
Dated covenants
- Mid-term review: (a) an implementation report to be prepared no later than October 31, 2002 and (b) a
-nid-term review to be held no later than January 31, 2003 for an in-depth evaluation of progress achieved
in implementing the project, especially for what relates to the establishment of an Urban Transport
Management Authority, concessioning of the subway, the Algiers airport and part of the port of Djendjen,
opening of the port service market to private sector participation, and air transport liberalization. If need
be, an agreement between the GoA and the Bank will be sought on measures needed to correct the
irnplementation course in order to achieve project development objectives.
Financial covenants - Audit requirements
-Project accounts, transactions on the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures will be audited
annually and the audit report will be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after closing of the
Borrower's fiscal year ending December 3 1.
Reporting requirements
- Submit PMRs reports quarterly. The first report should be submitted no later than June 30, 2002.
H. Readiness for Implementation
a 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
O] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[]3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Project Implementation Plan
- 16 -



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
M 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
1 ichel A. Loir                    Mr.Emmanuel Forestier              Mr. Christian Delvoie
Team Leader                       Sector Director                      ountry Director
- 17-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALGERIA: TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ey Pe rance;0      0
Hieran       of Ojc i             Iicators            :Mniton  & Evaation    Citical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector! country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
- Remove sector bottlenecks to Maritime traffic, excluding    Country statistics  - Social integration (low level
faster growth and integrate   hydrocarbons, up by 20% in                          of unemployment)
Algeria in the world economy. 2005 (Base 2000: 18mt)                              - Dynamic world market
- Moving to a private sector   Direct foreign investments in  Country statistics  - same as above
led economy                transport: no less than US$2
billion from 2001 to 2005
(Base 2000: 0)
- Strengthening governance   Competition level        Country statistics          - same as above
and regulatory capacities at   (concentration indices by
all level of Government.  transport market segments)
- to be determined -
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
I. Set up a policy and     - Transport services       - Country statistics.       - Fair and prompt handling of
institutional framework    liberalized by 2005.       - Special surveys.          contract related legal issues by
conducive to PPI development                          - Reports by PMU.           the judiciary.
and liberalization in transport.                      - ICR.
2. Demonstrate the feasibility  New ports and airports PPI   Same as above.       Sustained growth of the PPI
of mainstreaming transport   schemes launched by 2005,                            market in the world.
concessions through       respectively covering:
successful launching of       - over 1 million tons;
project ones (subway, ports,  - over 500,000 passengers.
airports).
3. Build stronger capacities in  - Over 25% of international  Same as above.      - Foreign countries willing to
transport sector management  air traffic liberalized by 2005.                     sign Open Sky treaties.
and handling of regulatory    - Urban bus transport is                            - Stable local and/or central
functions.                 provided under competitively                           financing sources supplement
awarded concession contracts                          farebox revenues.
by 2005.
4. Rehabilitate the railways to - Combined rail traffic:  - SNTF statistics and surveys. The GoA limits/reduces its
make them contribute better    >4500 million traffic  - ICR.                      interference in railway
to cost efficient transport of  units by 2005                                     management and compensate
people and freight nationwide. (Base 2000: 3000 million                           PSOs timely and in full.
TU)
-18 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Crtical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Regional port authorities run  Traffic growth >4% annually  - Progress reports by PMU  A good macroeconomic
their ports efficiently and the  through 2005.        - Supervision reports      framework allows for rapid
national strategic plan is  Containerized traffic >30% of - Port statistics       economic growth of Algeria.
approved.                  general cargo by 2004.     - ICR
Private competition in port   No less than 2 companies  - Progress reports by PMU  Good competition between
cargo handling is in progress. handling general cargo per   - Supervision reports  port enterprises ensures good
port (average for Algiers,  - ICR                     quality of port services.
Oran and Annaba combined).
Part of Djendjen is operated   Concession contract signed by - Supervision reports  Contract terms are adhered to
under a concession contract.  December 2003.          - ICR                      by parties.
A national airport policy to   June 2003.             - Progress reports by PMU   System in place to run and
promote PPI schemes is                                - Supervision reports      fund "public service" airports.
adopted and implemented.                              - ICR
The Algiers airport        Implementation of the      Same as above               Macroeconomic conditions
concession is harmonized   concession contract for the                            conducive to full adherence to
with the national airport  terminal building is problem                           contractterms by both parties.
strategy and new regulations. free.
The international air transport no less than 5 air transport   Same as above      Willingness of EU states to
market is gradually liberalized treaties negotiated on a more                    sign more liberal air treaties
and the local air transport is  liberal basis by December                         with Algeria.
sustainable.               2004.
Railways are restructured and Ratio of labor costs to traffic  Same as above      The GoA meets its financial
generate operating surpluses.  revenue down to 35% in 2005                        obligations. Social peace is
(Base 2000: 67%)                                    maintained at SNCFT.
SNTF work and service      December 2004              Same as above               Successful private take over of
subsidiaries, and Infrafer are                                                   the work and service
pivatized.                                                                        subsidiaries.
A comprehensive planning    Transport Authority       Same as above               The Authority is given
management and regulatory   established by January 2003.                          financial means
framework for urban transport                                                     commensurate to its tasks by
is in place in Algiers.                                                          the GoA and the Algiers
Wilaya.
The Algiers subway is being   Concession contract signed by Same as above         Contract terms are adhered to
built under a BOT contract.   December 2003                                       by the two parties.
Efficient and affordable bus   Share of public transport in   Same as above       Sustained economic growth in
services are offered to the  Algiers > 60% by 2004.                               the Greater Algiers; strong
people living in the Greater   Nr. trips/day/urban dweller by                     private sector response to the
Algiers area.              2004: >1 (base 2000: 0.7).                             new incentive framework.
- 19 -



fHirarcyof ObXjecis iE         Inicos         :    MonI__1ng & ,EviuaIn         Critical Asum    ns I
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
Ports. Implementation of the US$1.33 million        Reports by PMU.           Top experts are available.
new institutional framework                         Bank supervision report.  Sustained commitment to let
and capacity building in the                        Consultant reports.       private port operators in the
port public administration.                         ICR.                      market.
Ports. Concessioning of part  US$1.15 million       Reports by PMU.           Contract terms are adhered to
of the port of Djendjen.                            Press releases.           by parties.
Airports. National airport   US$0.31 million        Reports by PMU.           The Algiers terminal building
strategy definition.                                Bank supervision report.  concession consistent with the
ICR.                      proposed policy framework.
Airports. Building regulatory US$0.10 million       Reports by PMU.           Top experts are available.
capacities.                                         Bank supervision report.  Political will to tender new
ICR.                      airport concessions.
Air transport. Definition of a US$0. 10 million     Same as above.            GoA commitment to liberalize
national air transport strategy                                               the air transport market.
and negotiation of air treaties.
Air transport. Building   US$0.46 million           Same as above.            Top experts are available.
regulatory capacities at DAC.
Railways. Support to strategy US$3.19 million       Same as above.            Top experts are available.
definition and to restructuring                     Consultant reports.       Good supervision by the GoA
of the railway institutional set                                              and the Bank.
up and operations.
Railways. Promotion of    US$0.58 million           Same as above.            Good preparatory work by
public-private partnerships.                                                  consultants. High quality bids.
Urban transport. Setting up US$0.52 million         Reports by PMU.           The GoA and the Algiers
a management and regulatory                         Bank supervision report.  Wilaya cooperate and pay
framework in Algiers Wilaya.                        Consultant reports.       financial compensation for
ICR.                      public service constraints.
Urban transport. Strategy   US$0.92 million        Same as above.             Top experts are available.
definition and reorganization                                                  Sound process to auction lines
of bus services in Algiers                                                    Good Bank supervision.
Wilaya.
Urban transport.         US$2.46 million           Same as above.             High quality bids. Contract
Concessioning of the Algiers                        Press releases.           terms are adhered to by
subway                                                                        parties.
- 20 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ALGERIA: TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The project has six components
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.48 million
Technical Assistance to the port reform
Background
2.1    Algerian ports and cities have thrived alongside one another for centur ies. However, with the
development of urban areas, land for expanding quays, building storage areas and constructing access
routes to transporting goods by land have largely disappeared. The devek )pment of efficient port
operations has also been hampered by facilities that have not kept up with the E lace of new shipping and
port technologies, and by trade procedures, particularly customs clearance, wThi ich prevent fast transit of
goods: containers are said to spend an average of 20 days in port storage. On the other hand, Algeria has a
high density of ports with ten along its 1,000 km-long coastline, a large and edlic ated population, and good
rail connections with ports which could enhance trade logistics, were the righit commercial environment
created.
2.2    The institutional framework, which provides for Economic Public Enl erprises (EPEs) to operate
individual ports, is overseen by the Ministry of Transport (MoT) in terms of re( gulations, management and
operations, while the Ministry of Public Works has responsibility for developi nent planning, funding and
implementation of port investments. The private sector has had only limited invc )lvement in service delivery.
The EPEs, wholly owned by the Public Holding "Chimie, Pharmacie, Services'', lack incentives to perform
like commercial entities, as was envisaged, and often suffer from Govern ment budget priorities and
constraints. Combined, these constraints prevented port services from contril buting to a more open and
diversified Algerian economy. The relative weaknesses of port services dete r modernization, and most
ships visiting Algerian ports are old and ill suited to efficient cargo handling. Overall, local traders suffer
logistical handicaps in an international competition that has grown tougher.
2.3   In 1998, the Government of Algeria (GoA) engineered a comprehens ive reform designed to speed
the modernization of port management and port facilities, sanctioned by Law 98-05 of June 27 1998 (the "
Code Maritime"). The Landlord Port model was adopted, leaving regu h rtory, planning and land use
functions vested with public entities, while service delivery is to be competiti% rely performed by commercial
entities.
2.4   In order to allow for private participation in ports, the EPEs would e ,ither face private competition
or be unbundled and opened to private capital. Most activities would 1 e licensed or granted under
concession contracts. Three regional port authorities were created by de crees dated August 18, 1999
(Number 99-119 thru 202) respectively grouping ports in the east, center arid west of the country. Phase I
of implementation of these decrees is underway and consists of: (a) tra ,,ferring responsibility and staff
from the EPEs to the new port authorities; and (b) preparing detailed regu li itions for implementation of the
Code Maritime. The GoA indicated that they had enough expertise to coi( luct this first phase, expected to
be completed by mid-2002.
Objectives of the project technical assistance
2.5    The objectives are as follows:
(a) Fine tuning of the new port institutional framework;
(b) Formulation of the strategy of private sector participatioii in commercial activities with
- 21 -



competition in or for the market;
(c) Formulatior i of the national port development strategy;
(d) Promotion c )f a port concession at Djen-Djen; and
(e) Implemental ion of trade facilitation procedures.
Scope of services
2.6    Fine tuning of the v new port institutional framework  This involves establishing clear definitions of
port authorities' responsib ilities and modus operandi. There are several dimensions to this:
(a) Apportionme, it of specific responsibilities: The technical assistance will propose solutions to
streamline the relationship between:
(i) ports unde r a regional authority;
(ii) the three ri -,gional authorities;
(iii) each of these, and the central overseeing body and;
(iv) responsibil it ies in the field of investment planning, design and decision-making.
Supervisiox i exercised by MT plays a key role in national policy making, the
harmonizat ion of regional port development and definition of legal and operational
standards.
(b) Options to regu late port activities: The project TA will cover four areas:
(i) conditions i ,or licensing commercial activities without investments, (eligibility thresholds
for would-b e port operators; decision making level; rights and obligations when using
public prope rty, etc..);
(ii) concessionin Lg processes (selection of candidates; specification of the contractual
framework; norms of contract duration; tariffs and taxation; guarantees and ownership
rights; markl xt accessibility for foreign investors; dispute resolution);
(iii) port pricing A ',degree of freedom, consultation of users on tariff changes, protection against
abuses and ai iti-competitive practices); and
(iv) environmentl I safeguards (dredging, cargo handling and storage, worker's safety).
(c) Amendment of th, e legalframework: Retained options may imply that existing regulations be
amended or comr ileted to ensure consistency. All reference documents, including concession
agreements and cc iitracts, will be prepared.
(d) Assistance to the overseeing ministry: The MoT, which will lead the reform through its
completion, and v sill require advisory services and training. This assistance will also build
in-house capacity to efficiently handle port regulations, including those dealing with the
environment.
(e) Assistance to reg ional port authorities:  Some assistance services will be included to
overcome implemi ntation blockages, such as legal advice and consulting services for
communications wi th staff and the port community.
2.7    Formulation of a stratei xv for nrivate sector participation in commercial port activities. (a) This
sub-component will complement the previous one by providing guidance on market restructuring. For each
port, the project TA will analyze: existing conditions of port operations and propose a strategy reconciling
the objective of maximizing cow ipetition in or for the market with the one of having port companies with
enough traffic to be financially st istainable and capable of investing in equipment; (b) As a corollary to the
previous point, this strategy and i -he business plans worked out and approved for the EPEs will have to be
harmonized; and (c) Finally, opp ortunities to develop new facilities under Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT)
contracts will be assessed and pro posed for action.
2.8    Formulation of the natior tal port development strategy. Partly in relation to the development of
- 22 -



BOT contracts in para. 2.7, the proposed TA will assess extension needs and, based o n projected traffic,
will recommend a Strategic Development Plan. This plan will include actions to ra ise port efficiency
through gains in productivity and capacity derived from a better trained world borce, modernized
organization and handling methods, tapping the potential offered by modem logi. stics for efficient
intermodalism and transport interfaces, and investments with proven economic and financ ial viability.
2.9    Promotion of a port concession at Djen-Djen. A 850 m-long and 300 m-wic le area along the
western breakwater is unoccupied and available for development of new activities. 'I 7ransshipment of
containers is an option. The TA will carry out some technical studies and a market survt -y to identify the
best opportunities and propose a coherent logistic and commercial concept. An environmn -ntal audit of the
development zone is included. The tender documents for the concessioning procedure wil I be prepared, as
well as those for the selection of the Consulting Services (Investment Bank) providing a ssistance for the
concessioning procedure.
2.10   Facilitation of international trade procedures. The TA will support the ongoing prc 'gram led by the
Shipping Directorate at the MT in three ways:
(a) execution of surveys to determine the port storage time and costs for a sample  of commodities
with a view to propose a set of pertinent indicators that would be used for futuz v monitoring of
impacts from facilitation measures;
(b) execution of surveys to assess progress and pinpoint issues such as ma r1 -,et distortions
associated with the liberalization of port professions (e.g., ship agents and freiE ;h t forwarders);
and
(c) organization of seminars and information dissemination to take stock of foi -eij ;n and local
experience in trade facilitation and lay out an agenda for future action.
Design, planning and financing of the technical assistance
2.11   The proposed TA will consists of three studies, and three specialized consulting serv ices packages.
(a)    Study on the legal and regulatory framework
(i) Covers (a), (b), and (c) of para. 2.6
(ii) Needs expertise from lawyers and port and environmental specialists
(iii) Will be executed from January to June 2002.
(iv) Budget estimated at US$200,000. Source: Bank loan.
(b)    Study on private sector participation (to be closely coordinated with the previous one!)
(i) Covers para. 2.7 except point (c).
(ii) Needs financial and port expertise.
(iii) Will be executed from January to September 2002.
(iv) Budget estimated at US$250,000. Source: Bank loan.
(c)    Study on the port Development Strategic Plan
(i) Covers para. 2.8 and (c) of para. 2.7.
(ii) Needs port engineers, economists, operation specialists, financial analysts.
(iii) Will be executed from June 2002 to April 2003.
(iv) Budget estimated at US$600,000. Source: Bank loan.
(d)    Consulting services to MT and regional authorities; training
(i) Covers (d) and (e) of para. 2.6.
(ii) Service contract with a port: experts sent on request.
(iii) Will be executed over 2001 through 2004 (40% in 2002; 40% in 2003; 20% in 2004).
(iv) Budget estimated at US$200,000. Source: Bank loan.
(e)    Consulting services to concessioning of Djen-Djen
- 23 -



(i) Cover s para. 2.9. An investment bank will be hired to conduct market and feasibility studies
relate d to the concession scheme, then to help select a concessionnaire.
(ii) Need s shipping and port experts, economists, environmental specialists and lawyers.
(iii) Will be e3Lecuted from January to December 2003.
(iv) Bud, ,et estimated at US$1,100,000.  Source: Bank loan
(it is understood that the investment bank will also collect a success fee).
69     Consult ing services in trade facilitation
(i) Co, iers para. 2.10.
(ii) Nei Ads expertise in trade procedures, customs, electronic data interchange.
(iii) Wi 11 be executed from January to July 2003.
(iv) Bu dget estimated at US$50,000. Source: bilateral or multilateral grants.
Project Compo nent 2 - US$0.41 million
Technical Assistance to the airport reform
Background
2.12   The C ;o A currently owns and operates a public airport network comprised of 30 airports (of which
12 are open to the international traffic) which accommodated some 5 million passengers in 1999.
However, air pa rt traffic in the eighties was in excess of 8 million passengers, which gives an indication of
the magnitud le 'c,f the trend reversal that occurred in the nineties. At the same time, there is a significant
growth poteiatiz L if the factors that caused traffic to drop are eliminated. These factors included: adverse
security con iditi ions which led foreign airlines to pull out, restrictions in the number of visas issued, the
economic c disis, which reduced trade and the purchasing power in Algeria.
2.13   Th e ir Lstitutional framework bears resemblance to that of ports. Three public enterprises (in
French: "I stab lissement de Gestion des Services Aeroportuaires" or EGSA) are entrusted with the
operation and light maintenance of a cluster of airports in their respective jurisdiction. Based in
Constantil ae, A Igiers and Oran, the EGSA Est, Centre et Ouest operate airports in their third of the country
running n torth to south. Air traffic control is the responsibility of another public enterprise, the Entreprise
National, e de . Vavigation Aerienne (ENNA), which deploys and operates needed systems, including power
sub-stati ons tl iat sell power to the EGSAs. The Ministry of Public Works is in charge of infrastructure
developi nent, planning and execution of related works, and maintenance through its "Service des bases
aerienn es".
2.14    Each airport cluster includes a mix of profitable and unprofitable airports, but cross-subsidization
allows all to 'break even financially. The EGSAs also benefit from recouping part of the revenue earned by
ENN-A L frorri taxes, which compensates them for some airport joint-costs they bear. The existing
organ: ization must be strengthened financially, as cash generation only covers operation and routine
maint enance costs, and the cost allocation between the EGSAs and ENNA needs streamlining.
2.15     Finally, the Government policy now favors a broad based private participation in airports through
conc .ession earrangements ranging from service contracts to BOTs. The new institutional set up created by
LawA r 98-06 of June 27, 1998 was amended in December 2000 to take out provisions that would have
dete ,rred foreign investors from bidding (constraining nationality clauses in particular), because of
unc ;ertainties in the text on responsibilities, rights and remedies. The Algiers airport is the first concession
in  which the GoA will select the concessionaire with the assistance of an investment Bank.
- 24 -



Objectives of the project technical assistance to airports
2.16   The overarching objective is to help GoA formulate an airport strategy that will best serve growing
international and national mobility needs triggered by the expected acceleration of national economic
growth, and foster balanced development across the country. To this end, maintaining the integrity of the
national airport network is essential. The focus of the strategy is on private participation under airport
concessions as a means of achieving the objective of raising needed capital and making airports more
efficient. Safety and security, competitive delivery of services, financial sustainability and protection of the
environment are other prominent features of that strategy.
Scope of services
2.17   Evaluation of the airport system and development prospects. The current status of airports will be
assessed, including legal frameworks, finances, operational performance, handling of the technical
functions of safety and security along with development prospects and opportunities for private sector
participation. Detailed tasks include:
(a) Visits to airports to identify their strength and weaknesses, the conditions under which all
parties involved in management and operations interact, constraints to private participation in
service delivery, and labor and environmental issues;
(b) Comparisons among Algerian airports and those in Maghreb countries with similar
development levels in order to rate the performance of the former. Indicators will be measured
and included in the report.
(c) Analysis of operational and managerial changes designed to enhance airport efficiency leading
to recommendations on ways to remove existing obstacles.
(d) Based on the GoA's medium-term economic policy and associated prospects of liberalization
and privatization, the previous assessment of unrealized potential in airports, intemational
trends in air transport and strategies pursued by major airlines and world airports, a traffic
forecast will be made spanning a 25-year period with distribution of flows by airport cluster.
(e) The traffic forecast will be used to determine short and medium term needs for developing
airport infrastructure. The physical layout of investments will be specified as well as their
costs, a preliminary assessment of potential environmental risks will be carried out, and terms
of reference for detailed environmental assessments will be prepared knowing that related
studies will be executed under other follow up operations.
(f) The financing plan corresponding to proposed investments will be studied and possible sources
identified, especially private ones.
2.18   Development and evaluation of options for private participation. The study will follow three steps
to determine the most promising modes for private sector participation, taking into account GoA's policy
objectives.
(a) The feasibility of competition for the market will be assessed. PPI options for individual or a
cluster of airports will be identified for their potential to fulfill needs of balanced airport
development and attract private investment. Staffing issues associated with an option will be
reviewed and social schemes proposed to bring staffing in line with quantity and quality needs.
Various legal arrangements will be discussed and ranked by merit (concession contracts,
licenses, etc.), and a timetable set out for implementation of each option.
(b) Financial viability of each option will be tested through preparation of financial forecasts
covering each transaction contemplated and outlining the advantages of private participation.
A financial model will be developed and sensitivity analyses carried out. Important parameters
include: (i) economic growth; (ii) investment costs; (iii) operating expenses; (iv) operating
revenues; (v) balance sheet and depreciation accounts; (vi) taxation regimes; (vii) financing
terms; and (viii) contract duration. The valuation of options will be presented as a range of
- 25 -



values based on methods tailored to airports and widely recognized abroad.
(c) A summary of the pros and cons associated with each option will be made, covering legal,
institutional, financial, technical and operational aspects; and implementation arrangements
specified.
(d) Assistance will be provided to the GoA in selecting best options. A workshop will be organized
to that end.
2.19   Finalization of the GoA PPI strategy for airports. Assistance will be provided to complete GoA's
strategy for airports. Specific activities will include:
(a) Carrying out market research to test the responsiveness of private investors to each option;
(b) Finalizing recommendations on implementation details, including changes of the institutional
framework;
(c) Propose a human resources plan associated to the best option (including severance, retraining
and redeployment of staff) and processes designed to smooth out implementation of the plan;
(d) Defining an implementation schedule for the best option;
(e) Preparing an Information package to attract potential investors; and
(f) Defining interim management and financial arrangements for airports that could not be
proposed to private investors, consistent with sustainability of the public service.
2.20   Building regulatorv capacities.  Because private participation in airport infrastructure and
operations is expected to expand in the future, the civil aviation department will have to strengthen its
capacity to regulate private activities, define national norms, manage concessioning processes and
contracts, update and/or develop environmental safeguards. Local dissemination of best international
practices and targeted training will be carried out under this TA sub-component. The scope of services
also includes a discussion of the merits and feasibility of developing an independent regulatory system.
Services will also include ensuring consistency between the airport strategy definition exercise described
above and the parallel concessioning of the Algiers terminal building.
Design, planning and financing of the technical assistance
2.21   The above TA will be delivered as one major study and advisory services.
(a) Study for definition of the national airport strategy and identif cation of concessions.
(i) Covers paras. 2.17 through 2.19.
(ii) Needs airport management and operation, and legal expertise, plus financial analysts,
transport economists and environmental specialists.
(iii) Will be executed from January 2002 to January 2003.
(iv) Budget estimated at US$300,000. Source : Bank loan.
(b) Advisory services and training
(i) Covers para. 2.20.
(ii) Needs international expertise in airport regulations: (a) short term missions will be called
as needed to clarify job descriptions, prepare the work program and assist the Civil
aviation directorate through the concessioning of the Algiers terminal; (b) study trips
abroad for key officials; (c) organization of a seminar in Algiers in October 2002 to take
stock of early capacity building initiatives and disseminate the international best practice.
(iii) Will be executed from April 2002 to September 2004 (30% in 2002; 50% in 2003; 20% in
2004).
(iv) Budget estimated at US$100,000. Source : Bank loan.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.57 million
- 26 -



Technical assistance to air transport
Background
2.22   Algeria liberalized its domestic air transport market which is competitively served by several
airlines, including Air Algerie (AA), a public enterprise that held the monopoly of domestic and
intemational air transport, and three private companies, Khalifa (the largest), Sahara Airlines and Eco Air.
Tariffs and frequency of flights are freely deternined. However, AA remains the reference company on
which others align their tariff. For intemational routes, the private companies have been authorized to serve
provincial towns in Europe leaving the most profitable services between Algiers and foreign capitals to AA.
International services to and from Algeria, with the exception of lines to Italy, neighboring countries and a
few Arab countries, are exclusively provided by Algerian companies.
2.23   Notwithstanding these exceptional features, caused by security problems in Algeria, the
international services are still ruled by bilateral treaties of Bermudan type based on which capacities are
apportioned to national companies of the two signatories. This is the case in particular with Tunis Air and
Royal Air Maroc. This old framework is being increasingly questioned by countries in favor of air
transport liberalization within "open sky" policies. The GoA looks forward to moving in that direction and
signed in November 1999 the Yamoussoukro Multilateral Agreement that promotes liberalization and
creation of a common air transport market in Africa. Throughout the rest of the world, where stakes are
higher, the GoA anticipates a gradual elimination of restrictions on splitting traffic rights, and full
liberalization will eventually be achieved. Implementing this policy will be a difficult endeavor and the GoA
feels it needs strengthening in order to handle future negotiations of air transport treaties with a clear
strategic vision and the right amount of expertise.
2.24   This policy will require a pace that is consistent with the growth of the national air transport
industry. In this regards, the future of Air Algerie is in question, since the company has serious handicaps
that would be aggravated were it exposed to competition. Autonomous since February 1997, AA was
restructured, but ensuing social disputes did not allow for implementation of its reorganization plan. AA
faces numerous challenges, including: (a) AA must refocus its strategy on the dynamic parts of its
business; (b) its fleet is obsolete; renewal orders have been placed for Boeing 737-800s, six of which have
already been delivered. Financing costs are inflated by the country risk factor and the enterprise has not
enough liquidity to cover its financing needs, and operational leasing has become the preferred option in
recent years. (c) Management systems are outdated, especially for computerized reservations, an area that
is key to commercial dynamism and where AA is badly lagging. (d) Excess staffmg inflates costs, in spite
of a restrictive compensation policy which induces the best performers to move to the private sector where
salaries are higher. (e) AA will soon commission its maintenance base, into which large resources have
been sunk (about US$300 million). The base exceeds its own needs. How to obtain the certification that is
indispensable to attract foreign customers is a vital question.
Objectives of the project technical assistance to air transport
2.25   The TA will focus on developing local capacity in the regulation of air transport. The two pronged
approach is to:
(a) Assist in the formulation of an air transport strategy and in its implementation through
upcoming renegotiation of bilateral and multilateral treaties; and
(b) Develop a regulatory framework that is well suited to liberalizing the sector and train personnel
to manage it.
- 27 -



Scope of services
2.26   Formulate the national air transport strategy. This would be carried out in four stages:
(a) The first stage would include a study review of worldwide experience in liberalizing air
transport and identify key steps in developing "open sky" policies. The analysis will include a
discussion of benefits drawn by countries which moved to liberalization, with measurable
indicators to illustrate points. The focus will be on countries with which Algeria has signed
treaties, with special scrutiny given to current and emerging regulations and policies in the EU.
Attention will also be paid to national and international norms on noise limits, particularly
those applicable or under discussion in the European Union, and which will greatly affect the
operations of Algerian aircrafts.
(b) The second stage would be a synthesis of new commercial strategies, including alliances, cross
participation in capital and mergers, which major airlines have undertaken in response to
liberalization. The purpose is to define models for repositioning of the national airline industry
on competitive markets, and under conditions that would enhance chances of success. The
analysis will cover both passenger and freight traffic. The development potential of
international hubs in Algeria will be discussed both in connection with traffic liberalization
with Europe, the Middle East (Algeria should be a party to the recent liberalization decision by
the Arab Air Carrier Organization), and the American continent, and airlines strategies in
response to such changes.
(c) The third stage would be development and discussion with the Civil Aviation Directorate
(CAD) and other relevant entities (national airlines, the EGSAs) of a medium term air
transport policy framework. This analysis will specify the implication of such a policy, on a
country-by-country basis. Several options will be presented dealing with the geographical
scope and timing, and with the pace for moving through the various steps toward "open sky"
agreements. Pros and cons associated with each of these will also be outlined. This part of the
study will have to be coordinated with the analysis of AA's restructuring and privatization
strategy, and with airport development, for instance, Oran versus Algiers.
(d) Finally, short term support will be provided to CAD in order to give it insights in preparing to
negotiate with foreign countries and with foreign airlines involved in flights to and from
Algeria.
2.27   Develop local regulatorg capabilities suited to liberalization requirements. This activity would
have three sides:
(a) Definition of a new regulatory structure for CAD, or a new agency that could be specialized or
multi-sectoral, and presentation of its merits compared to alternatives. The responsibilities
assigned to that structure, namely to edict and ensure application of efficient market access
rules, will be specified by a number of categories, including bilateral agreements,
apportionment of traffic rights and licenses by traffic type, operating zone, contract duration,
and criteria to appraise the creation of new lines. Organization charts, job descriptions, and
work processes will also be detailed.
(b) An appropriate level of human resources needed to run the regulatory structure will be
identified, and the development and implementation of a Training Plan undertaken.
(c) A review of the current legal and regulatory framework, as well as proposals to amend texts to
restore consistency between existing framework and the new regulation structure, will be
conducted
- 28 -



Design, planning and financing of the technical assistance
2.28   The proposed TA will be delivered in three packages respectively covering studies, consulting
services and training. Reasons for doing so are due to the specialization of subject matter, the nature of
proposed intervention, the speed with which the program will be implemented. Missions will be
coordinated by CAD and undertaken in a parallel fashion.
(a) Sector strategy study contract
(i) A single contract covering the content of para. 2.26 except (d).
(ii) Contract with a specialized consultant able to mobilize experts in air transport policy and
in the airlines business and international public law, actively engaged in working relations
with air transport world and regional organizations (ICAO, IATA, Arab Air Carrier
Association, etc. ).
(iii) Execution over 4 months (January thru June 2002).
(iv) Budget: US$100,000. Source of financing: Bank loan.
(b) Consulting services
(i) Includes two types of assistance: (a) on-demand advice to negotiations ((d) of para. 2.26);
(b) Contract with a consultant covering the content of para. 2.27 except (b).
(ii) Requires expertise (a) on issues specific to the country about to negotiate with CAD; (b) in
air transport regulation.
(iii) Execution: (a) distributed over a little more than two years (September 2002 to December
2004); (b) March 2002 to March 2003.
(iv) Budget: (a) US$50,000; (b) US$300,000. Source of financing: Bank loan.
(c) Training
(i) Covers (b) of para. 2.27.
(ii) Includes: (a) study trips for CAD managerial staff; (b) organization in Algeria of seminars
on themes of the Training Plan.
(iii) Execution: (a) April 2002 to December 2004; (b) three to four contracts over March 2002
to June 2004.
(iv) Budget: (a) US$25,000; (b) US$75,000. Sources: Bank loan.
Project Component 4 - US$3.77 million
Technical assistance to railway rehabilitation
Background
2.29   Railway management in Algeria is entrusted to Societe Nationale de Transport Ferroviaire
(SNTF) based on the general principles underlying Public Service. SNTF is a public enterprise overseen by
the transport ministry and governed by statutes included in Decree 90-391 of December 1, 1990. The
regulatory framework for railways is defined in the convention between the GoA and SNTF, which was
approved by Decree 88-128 of June 28, 1988, and by a Cahier des Charges approved by ministerial order
on December 22, 1990.
2.30 In the late 1990s, the sector was in deep crisis, with rail traffic falling dramatically as a result of
terrorist acts and insecurity, and also from a deterioration in rail's competitiveness against its main
competitors. For instance, freight volume dropped from 2.7 billion ton-km in 1990 to 2.0 in 1999, while
passenger traffic fell from 3 billion passenger-km to 1,1 billion over the same period. Today, railway
productivity remains low compared to networks in comparable countries. The US$3.7 billion invested in
railway infrastructure over the last ten years failed to improve the situation. The system for financing rail
investments and operations has no adequate basis, is costly to the GoA, and, in practice, is not applied in a
- 29 -



consistent manner. Finally, the commendable efforts made by SNTF management to rehabilitate the
company in recent years have not had an impact on the most serious issues, namely: a lack of real
managerial autonomy, cumbersome procedures and bureaucratic management, a predominant civil service
culture and weak commercial functions, significant attrition of in-house experience and technical
competences, weak training and skill development programs, inadequate compensation policy, backward
technical, administrative and financial systems, and overstaffing.
2.31   Despite the major problems it faces, the railway sector could play a role in the future market-based
transport system by focusing on business niches where it has comparative edges over competitors. A
railway revival is a long-term proposition that could take from seven to ten years and would be dependent
on the implementation of a new GoA sector policy, and reforms in how SNTF is managed.
Objectives of the project technical assistance
2.32 The TA will pursue four objectives:
(a) Refocus the economic role of the railways in a market economy.
(b) Transform the railway institutional framework.
(c) Restructure SNTF to be more competitive and to operate in a more commercially-oriented
manner.
(d) Prepare a medium- term railway investment plan.
Scope of services
2.33   Refocus the railwas economical role in a market economy context.  Moving toward a
market-based economy will bring significant changes in the railway business in terms of increased
competition and diversified demand. Within such a context, the role played by the railways in the various
markets, such as ore transport, other freight transport, intercity passenger transport, provincial services,
suburban services, would have to be reinvented.
2.34   Transform the railways institutional framework. This would address the: (a) railway's legal and
regulatory framnework; (b) railway's overall organizational set up; (c) financial relations between the GoA
and the railway company.
(a) Legal and regulatory framework: the objective here would be to delineate a flexible new
framework where the GoA would still control development of new lines (either directly or
through granting of concessions), but where railway operations would be conducted under a
concession contract, covering either management of infrastructure only or infrastructure
management plus the operation of railway services.
(b) Basic railways organizational set up. The Algerian "Railway Group" would be anchored in a
company entrusted with a concession for the entire existing railway network (a revamped
SNTF) with autonomous railway transport operators specialized on certain traffic (particularly
for freight). A separate public entity would manage infrastructure development, and public
contractors dealing with railway works would be restructured and privatized.
(c) Financial relations between the GoA and the railways. Eventually, financial contribution by
the GoA to the railways would be limited to the following: compensation of public service
obligations (suburban transport, social fares) and level crossing expenses; and construction of
new lines, road overpasses and fences along the railway right of way. During a transition
period that would allow the railways time to bridge efficiency gaps, the GoA would also
finance infrastructure renewal and rehabilitation.
2.35   Set the stage for a re-engineered railway company. The purpose of this activity is to create an
efficient railway group by 2006, managed as a commercial undertaking and financially breaking even.
- 30 -



There are several dimensions to this objective.
(a) Operation methods. Operating and maintenance costs must be cut through introducing
adequate radio-block systems, restating the maintenance policy and resorting to contracting
out. Current procedures for mitigation of environmental risks (work and traffic safety, track
maintenance procedures, etc..) will be reviewed with recommendations for changes when and
where deemed warranted.
(b) Maintenance of rolling stock Maintenance policies will be changed to increase performance
and lower costs. Logistics and maintenance bases will be streamlined. Possibilities for
contracting out functions will be explored. As for operations, the consultants will assess
procedures to mitigate environmental risks, particularly at the workshops.
(c) Internal reorganization of the railway group. Internal structures will be adapted to
accommodate in-house capabilities in marketing, planning and economic feasibility studies.
More generally, existing structures will be assessed toward creating those that are missing or
beefing up those which are under-developed. This would apply to environmental screening of
contemplated investments and working procedures.
(d) Upgrading the telecommunication and radio-block systems.  The productivity of rail
operations is undermined by outdated telecommunication systems. The project will finance a
telecommunication master plan that will take into account the ongoing Telecom refonms in
Algeria (railway companies elsewhere derived benefits from allowing telecommunication
companies to use their rights of way. This might permit railways to have free
telecommunications networks for their own operations). The study will cover conditions under
which SNTF could enter into such telecom contracts.
(e) Adjustment of human resources. A severance program will be proposed and the compensation
policy revised, leading to a training and specialized skills development program.
(f) Promotion ofpublic-private partnerships. SNTF has already engaged in private partnerships,
especially for motive power maintenance. Other partnerships are envisaged for transport
services, including the electrification of the suburban network in the Greater Algiers, and
implementation of the railway-business center complex at Algiers Agha.
2.36   Prepare a medium-term railwa investment plan. Priority investments directly supporting railway
rehabilitation and the recovery of its traffic lost to road transport will be identified and pre-selected based
on technical, financial and economic criteria. Detailed programming and engineering activities supporting
these investments is not a part of the technical assistance, which will be limited to identifying and
prioritizing investments, and preparing of terns of reference for detailed studies, including environmental
impact assessments.
Design, planning and fmancing of the technical assistance
2.37   The proposed TA will be delivered through studies and consulting services as follows.
General strategy definition and revision of the institutionalframework
Studies to deepen and complement the general blueprint of the railways strategy and of how to
adjust its institutionalframework
- mobilization of experts for short-term missions;
- Execution from January thru September 2002.
- Budget: US$200,000. Source of funds: Bank loan.
Marketing strategy and business forecast:
Procurement of a railway costing software
- 31 -



- Such tool is essential to assessment of the economic role of railways and
formulation of a commercial policy.
- Services include training of in house operators.
- Will be executed from January thru April 2002.
- Budget: US$150,000. Source of funds: Bank loan.
Study on the intercity passenger andfreight traffic competitiveness
- Evaluation of the future railways economic role on these segments and definition
of a commercial policy.
- Will be executed from February thru October 2002.
- Budget: US$300,000. Source of funds: Bank loan.
Feasibility study of containerized traffic development and of the supporting commercial policy to
implement. .
- Evaluation of the feasibility of containerizing railway traffic and definition of the
corresponding commercial policy.
- Will be executed from June thru September 2002.
- Budget: US$150,000. Source of funds: Bank loan.
Assistance to setting up of marketing structures and training
- Definition of structures and training.
- Will be executed from October 2002 to December 2003.
- Budget: US$300,000. Source of funds: Bank loan.
Re-engineering of the railway company
Transport technical organization scheme
- Prepare a diagnosis of existing situation. Identify changes in the organization of
train circulation, management and distribution of railway cars, management of
train crews.
- Will be executed from March 2002 to March 2003.
- Budget: US$300,000. Source of funds: Bank loan.
Track maintenance strategy
- Prepare a diagnosis of existing situation. Define the future track maintenance
policy. Assess possibilities of contracting out the works. Define the organization
and staffing targets. Develop a training program. Make a maintenance budget
forecast.
- Will be executed from February 2002 to March 2003.
- Budget: US$350,000. Source of funds: Bank loan.
Maintenance strategyfor the rolling stock
- Prepare a diagnosis of existing situation; elaborate a policy for the future; define
the organization and staffing targets; develop a training program; restructure
facilities.
- Will be executed from June 2002 to June 2003.
- Budget: US$250,000. Source of funds: Bank loan.
Master plan of telecommunications and radio-block development
- Will be executed from September 2002 to June 2003.
- Budget: US$250,000. Source of funds: Bank loan.
Modernization offinancial management and accounting systems
- Prepare a diagnosis of existing situation; elaborate a strategy for improvement;
prepare the bidding documents for later studies.
- Will be executed from January 2002 to June 2003.
- Budget: US$150,000. Source of funds: GoA.
- 32 -



Human resources management strategy
- Definition of staff severance programs and a new compensation policy.
- Will be executed from April thru December 2002.
- Budget: US$300,000. Source of funds: Bank loan.
Project economic andfinancial evaluation training
- The content and timing of this sub-component will be finalized at negotiations.
- Will be executed during the first semester of 2002.
- Budget: US$100,000. Source of funds: GoA.
Support to promotion ofpublic-private partnerships and to privatization of business lines
Assistance to concessioning of electrification of the suburban railway network in the Greater
Algiers zone
- Will be executed from January thru June 2004.
- Budget: US$150,000. Source of funds: Bank loan.
Support to implementation of the station and business center at Algiers Agha under a BOT
contract
- Requires hiring of a consultant specialized in privatization.
- December 2003 to June 2004.
- Budget: US$300,000. Source of funds: Bank loan.
Assistance to privatization of contracting and service SNTF subsidiaries
- Requires hiring of a consultant specialized in privatization.
- Will be executed from March 2002 to March 2003.
- Budget: US$ 100,000. Source of funds: Bank loan.
Development of a medium term program ofpriority investm ents for the railways.
Identification and Selection ofpriority investments
- This study will form the basis of future investment funding requests to Donors.
- Will be executed from June thru September 2003 (after the strategy track, rolling
stock and telecommunications studies are completed).
- Budget: US$300,000. Source of finds: Bank loan.
Project Component 5 - US$3.90 million
Technical assistance to urban transport
- 33 -



Background
2.38   As was the case for major cities throughout Algeria, urban development in Algiers, with a
population of about 2.5 million at present, was quite strong over the last decade. Typically, public
enterprises were unable to cope with demand, and the private sector was authorized to enter the market,
leading to an increase in the supply of transport services. Private operators now control three-fourths of
the market. However, flawed definition and loose enforcement of regulations created serious market
distortions: on the one hand, services are expensive (tariffs are high and unregulated by the GoA; they are
frequently hiked) while the quality of service is low and transfers poorly organized, resulting in high
transport costs for certain categories of users; on the other hand, too many service providesr contribute to
congestion in the city center. A low motorization rate for the population (7% in Algiers) and a high
proportion of trips on foot, even over long distances, point to shortcomings in the urban transport
organization.
2.39   The GoA intends to complete Line I of the future Algiers subway system, which has been under
construction since 1990. An ongoing study will update the economic and financial justifications of this
project and its institutional set-up. The study should be the basis on which the GoA will advance its plan to
seek a private concessionaire for the 12-km long line stretching from Hai El Badr to Oued Koriche. This
subway will be a key feature of the urban transport system for Algiers. It is expected to be commissioned to
traffic by December 2007 or early 2008 (subject to signing of a concession contract by June 2003).
2.40   Urban transport and traffic responsibilities are scattered among several authorities the most
important of which are the Ministry of Transport (MoT), the Algiers Wilaya, and the country's various
municipalities. Furthermore, urban transport is critically under-funded in both operations and investments,
and the Algiers subway project will exacerbate this situation. Harmonious and sustainable development of
transport within the Greater Algiers area requires the establishment of a management authority (in French "
Autorite Organisatrice") that would be endowed with sufficient financial resources, sheltered from the
vagaries of budget decisions and fully empowered to regulate and control transport operators and manage
traffic.
Objectives of the project technical assistance
2.41   The TA will pursue the following objectives:
(a) Reforrn the institutional and financial framework of urban transport in Algiers, and establish
an urban transport authority for Greater Algiers.
(b) Prepare concessioning of the subway's Line I in a way maximizing chances of success.
(c) Plan the reorganization of existing transport modes within the Greater Algiers with a view to
strengthen the synergy between the subway and other modes, and integrate transport more
effectively in urban development plarming.
(d) Insert the private supply of public transportation in a competitive framework that would ensure
better coverage of urban mobility needs than is the case at present.
Scope of services
2.42   Reform the institutional and financial framework of urban transport in Algiers. The TA here will
include the following studies and consulting services.
(a)    Completion of the transport institutional organization studyfor Greater Algiers. This study,
started by the Wilaya, will be completed under the project with support from national and foreign
consultants. It has three objectives:
(i) design the organization in general, define its missions and its structures, together with staffing
and financial requirements for both investments and operating costs;
- 34 -



(ii) make recommendations on needed amendments to the existing legal and regulatory framework,
which could serve as a blueprint that could be replicated in other cities;
(iii) assess training requirements.
(b)    Tariff andfunding study. The objective is to:
(i) assess the financing requirements of urban transport operators within Greater Algiers under
various tariff assumptions;
(ii) measure the impact of transport projects and of pricing policy variants on the GoA resources
and on economic agents; and
(iii) recommend variants and corresponding financing mechanisms which would permit the
Management Authority to mobilize sufficient and stable resources, particularly user charges
and indirect taxation.
The possibility of applying the French system of "Versement Transport" will also be examined. The
proposed recommendation emerging from this study will be important for the subway concession, as the
concessionaire will evaluate risks of late or reduced payment of subsidies, without which the subway
cannot be financially viable. The study will also consider the prospects of adapting the proposed scheme to
other cities in Algeria. In the process of appraising the pricing variants, the study will take stock of the
outcome of the household survey that will be executed under the project (see para. d below).
(c)    Assistance to implementation of the new institutional organization
(i) Assistance to the Management Authority, including training of its personnel and that of central
and local administrations in charge of urban transport and traffic management.
(ii) Assistance to the Authority in contracting out transport services and implementing reforms
(through specific studies).
2.43   Plan the reor_anization of existing transport modes. This sub-component includes the following
three actions.
(d)    Household survey.      The survey will evaluate:
(i) people's mobility within Greater Algiers in order to better identify future subway traffic,
(ii) unmet public transport demand as a result of missing means (foot trips), and the potential
demand directed to other transport modes,
(iii) affordability of tariff variants examined under the Tariff and funding study (see above).
(e)    Transport Master Plan for Greater Algiers area; Traffic and Parking Study for the city center.
The objective of the Master Plan is to prudently allocate market share by mode over the medium and
long-term perspective and within the various zones of the Wilaya, and to determine the levels of
infrastructure and equipment needed to realize the proposed plans. The objectives of the traffic and
parking study is to recommend changes in street layout to accommodate subway operations maximize
motorized traffic safety and fluidity, and ease transport circulation. This study will be coordinated with
that for bus service restructuring, and will include a road safety audit by an independent consultant.
Environmental impacts of proposed solutions will be assessed at pre-feasibility levels, and terms of
reference for more detailed studies (outside the project scope) will be prepared if needed for decision
making.
69     Diagnosis of transport impacts on air quality in Greater Algiers. Deployment of air quality
monitoring stations is in progress under a separate project, but measurements of the concentration of
pollutants will not be available in the near future. The proposed assessment, which will be derived from the
characteristics of the vehicle fleet, is designed to provide useful input to the Transport Master Plan study.
It will focus on transport induced pollution, examine future trends, and make recommendations on
mitigating measures.
2.44   Organize a competitive framework for surface urban transport
(g)    Study on consolidation and concessioning of urban bus services. The study will be used to
- 35 -



identify actions to reduce the number of transport service providers to a level where the Managing
Authority can monitor and enforce contractual service standards while optimizing competition in the
market. This study would include, among other things, a definition of line packages, contractual tenns and
recommendations on needed legal and regulatory changes.
2.45   Prepare concessioning of the Algiers subway. Activities under this sub-component would be the
following.
(hJ)    Environmental impact study.   This study, which would be conducted along Bank guidelines, will
examine potentially negative environmental impacts of the subway project during construction and after the
start of operations, and propose measures to mitigate these impacts. The measures identified will be
imposed on the concessionaire. In addition to focusing attention on aspects related to dumping of materials
excavated for tunnel construction, the study will also review issues pertaining to:
(i) impacts of ongoing civil works on the circulation of motorized traffic and pedestrians;
(ii) processes for undertaking expropriation and resettlement actions; and
(iii) reconnecting utility networks, including water, sewerage, electricity, gas, telecommunications.
(i)    Geotechnical surveys.  The purpose is to determine the feasibility of transferring geological risks
in building the subway infrastructure to the concessionaire. The expert will review previous studies and the
work already done in similar geological conditions. He will ascertain the volume, the methods and the costs
of remaining works, as well as associated risks. The expert could recommend that other geological surveys
be carried out before tendering the concession.
fj)    Evaluation of already completed civil works.  This task is intended to provide prospective
concessionaires with ways to ascertain risks associated with taking over the responsibility of works
completed, and will form an integral part of the concession.
(k)    Assistance in the selection of a concessionaire.   The consultant will assist the Management
Authority in designing the final concession scheme, including a draft concession contract, and in
forecasting its impact on public finance. Clauses will be drafted to safeguard the interest of the
community, particularly for the environment, which the concessionaire will be bound to protect during and
after construction. The consultant will provide assistance during the promotion stage, including providing
information and identification of prospective investors, preparing pre-selection documents and tenders
(including technical and financial bidding specifications), and provide advice from the bid evaluation stage
through contract award. Support will also be given on financial engineering aspects, including the
preparation of requests to Donors for financing of the GoA share of subway investments and negotiation of
their loans.
Design, planning and financing of the technical assistance
2.46   The key steps in project implementation are:
(a) January 2003: establishment of the Management Authority.
(b) June 2003: signing of the subway concession contract.
(c) January 2008: commissioning of the subway Line I to traffic.
2.47   The project TA will be delivered through studies and consulting services with the following
characteristics.
(a) Completion of the Greater Algiers Institutional Reorganization study
(i) Requires legal expertise and urban transport specialists.
(ii) To be executed from February to May 2002.
(iii) Budget: US$50,000. Source of financing: Bank loan.
(b) Tariff andfunding study
(i) Requires economists, financial and urban transport specialists.
(ii) To be executed between March and November 2002.
- 36 -



(iii) Budget: US$200,000. Source of financing: Bank loan.
(c) Assistance to institutional reorganization
(i) Implies specialized studies and short term expert missions.
(ii) Will be distributed over the project implementation period (40% in 2002; 40% in 2003; 20% in
2004).
(iii) Budget: US$250,000. Source of financing: Bank loan.
(d) Household survey
(i) Requires services by a consultant with broad experience in sample surveys and in transport
planning.
(ii) Will be executed from October 2001 to June 2002.
(iii) Budget: US$150,000. Source of financing: GoA.
(e) Transport, traffic and parking plans study.
(i) Requires services by a consultant specialized in transport planning in large urban
perimeters.
(ii) Also requires a road safety expert to carry out the safety audit.
(iii) To be executed between September 2002 and August 2003.
(iv) Budget: US$500,000. Source of financing: Bank loan.
(f) Study of transport impacts on air quality.
(i) Requires consultants specialized in environmental management
(ii) To be executed from Juen to December 2002.
(iii) Budget: US$100,000.  Source of financing: GoA.
(g) Study on bus service consolidation and service concessioning
(i) Requires expertise in urban transport and on legal matters.
(ii) To be executed from April 2002 to February 2003.
(iii) Budget: US$150,000. Source of financing: GoA.
(h) Environmental assessment study for the subway.
(i) Requires a consultant specialized in environmental management and in railway works.
(ii) To be executed from Juen to September 2002.
(iii) Budget: US$300,000. Source of financing: Bank loan.
(i) Geotechnical surveys.
(i) Requires a consultant familiar with underground works.
(ii) To be executed from June to December 2002.
(iii) Budget: US$200,000 plus a contingency allowance of US$300,000. Source of financing:
Bank loan.
() Evaluation of already completed civil works.
(i) Requires a consultant familiar with underground works.
(ii) To be executed from June to December 2002.
(iii) Budget: US$400,000. Source of financing: Bank loan.
(k) Assistance to selection of a concessionaire.
(i) Requires a consultant conversant with concessioning processes and financial engineering
thereof, with an urban transport specialization.
(ii) Will be executed from June 2002 to June 2003.
(iii) Budget: US$1.2 million. Source of financing: Bank loan (US$1 million) and GoA (the
balance).
Project Component 6 - US$0.03 million
Project Financial Management
- 37 -



2.48   This component is centered on project management needs without no direct development objective.
Project activities will consist in setting up a Financial Management System complying with Bank
requirements on project management. Details on the scope and timing of activities under this component are
provided in Annex 6. In addition, the GoA will finance the office equipment needed.
- 38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALGERIA: TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Algeria
Transport Technical Assistance Project
Components Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(Dinar allgrien)                       (US$)                Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign       Total      Local    Foreign      Total   Exchange  Costs
Ports                         25,326.0    155,574.0    180,900.0     337.7    2,074.3     2,412.0       86      22
Airports                       4,221.0     25,929.0     30,150.0      56.3      345.7      402.0        86       4
Air Transport                   5,803.9    35,652.4     41,456.3      77.4      475.4      552.8        86       5
Railways                      38,516.6    236,602.1    275,118.8     513.6    3,154.7     3,668.3       86      34
Urban Transport               40,099.5    246,325.5    286,425.0     534.7    3,284.3     3,819.0      86       35
Project Management               316.6      1 944.7      2,261.3       4.2       25.9       30.2        86       -
Totai BASELINE COSTS          114,283.6    702,027.7    816,311.3    1,523.8    9,360.4    10,884.2     86      100
Physical Contingencies            31.7        194.5       226.1        0.4       2.6         3.0       86        -
Price Contingencies            10,696.3    65 705.7     76,402.0      38.4     236.1       274.6       86        3
rotal PROJECT COSTS           125,011.5    767,927.9    892,939.4    1,562.6    9,599.1    11,161.7     86      103
Commitment Charges                   -     23,289.8     23,289.8         -      291.1      291.1       100       3
Total Costs to be Financed    125,011.5    791,217.7    916.229.2    1,562.6    9,890.2    11,452.9     86      105
Table 1. Technical Assistance to the Port Reform
Detailed Costs
Base Cost - Negotiation
2002     2003      2004    2005      Total
A. Fine Tuning of the New Port Institutional Framework
Study on the Legal and Regulatory Framework                  201.0          -       -        -      201.0
Etude d'inserion du secteur priv6                            251.3          -       -        -      251.3
Study on the Development Strategic Plan                      301.5      301.5       -               603.0
Subtotal Fine Tuning of the New Port Institutional Framework  753.8     301.5       -        -    1,055.3
S. Private Sector Participation in Commercial Port Activities
Consulting Services to MT and Regional Authorities; Training  80.4       80.4    40.2        -      201.0
C. Consulting Services to Concessioning of Djen-Djen
Selecton of a Concessionnaire                                    -    1,105.5       -        -    1,105.5
D. Facilitation of InternatIonal Trade Procedures
Consulting Services in Trade Facilitation                        -       50.3       -        -       50.3
Total                                                        834.2    1,537.7    40.2        -    2,412.0
Table 2. Technical Assistance to the Airport Reform
Detailed Costs
Base Cost - Negotiation
2002    2003    2004    2005    Total
I. Investment Costs
Study for the Nat. Airport Strategy & Identific of Concessions   286.4    15.1  -  -   301.5
Service de cabinet-conseil et formaton               30.2    50.3    20.1         -   100.5
Total                                                  316.6    65.3    20.1         -   402.0
- 39 -



Table 3. Technical Assistance to Air Transport
Detailed Costs
Base Cost - Negotiation
2002    2003    2004    2005    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. National Air Transport Strategy Formulation
Sector Strategy Study                              100.5        -       -        -   100.5
B. Regulatory Framework Development
1. Consultng Services
Selective Consult. Sces at Negotiation            37.7    12.6                 -    50.3
Regulatory Framework Definition                  226.1    75.4        -        -   301.5
Subtotal Consulting Services                       263.8    87.9                 -   351.8
2. Training
Study Trips                                        8.5      8.3     8.3        -    25.1
Seminars in Algeria                               25.6    24.9    24.9         -    75.4
Subtotal Training                                   34.2    33.2    33.2         -   100.5
Subtota Regulatory Framework Development             298.0   121.1    33.2         -   452.3
Total                                                   398.5   121.1    33.2        -   552.8
Table 4. Technical Assistance to Railways Rehabilitation
Detailed Costs
Base Cost - Negotiation
2002      2003      2004    2005      Total
Investment Costs
General Strategy Definition
Studies to Deepen & Complement Railways Strategy                       201.0              -            -      201.0
Marketing Strategy and Business Forecast
Procurement of a Railway Costing Software                              150.8          -        -       -      150.8
Study on the Intercity Passenger and Freight Traffic Competitiveness   301.5          -        -       -      301.5
Feasibility Study of Containerized Traffice Development                 150.8         -        -       -      150.8
Assistance to Setting Up of Marketing Structures and Training            75.4     226.1        -        -     301.5
Subtotal Marketing Strategy and Business Forecast                      678.4      226.1        -       -      904.5
C. Re-engineering of the Railway Company
Transport Technical Organization Scheme                                226.1       75.4        -              301.5
Track Maintenance Strategy                                             263.8       87.9        -       -      351.8
Maintenance Strategy for the Rolling Stock                              125.6     125.6        -       -      251.3
Master Plan of Telecommunicabons and Radio-Block Development           150.8      100.5        -       -      251.3
Modemrization of Financial Management and Accounting Systems            90.5       60.3        -       -      150.8
Human Resources Management Strategy                                    301.5          -        -       -      301.5
Project Economic and Financial Evaluation Training                     100.5          -        -       -      100.5
Subtotal Reengineering of the Railway Company                         1,258.8     449.7        -        -    1,708.5
D. Support to Promotion of Public-Private Partnerships & privatization
Feasibility Study of a Concession for Electrification of the Suburban Network  -      -   150.8        -      150.8
Support to concessioning the Algiers-Agha Station and Business Center      -       30.2   271.4         -     301.5
Assistance to Privatization of Contracting and Service SNTF Subsidiaries  60.3     40.2        -       -      100.5
Subtotal Promotion of Public-Private Partnerships & Prlvatizatlon        60.3      70.4   422.1         -     552.8
E. Development of a Medium-Term Program of Priority Investments            -      301.5        -        -     301.5
Total                                                                 2,198.4    1,047.7   422.1        -    3,668.3
-40 -



Table 5. Technical Assistance to Urban Transport
Detailed Costs
Base Cost - Negotiation
2002      2003      2004    2005      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Institutional and Financial Framework
Completion of the Greater Algiers Institutional Reorganization Study  50.3       -       -        -       50.3
Tariff and Funding Study                                          201.0          -       -        -      201.0
Assistance to Institutional Reorganization                        100.5      100.5    50.3        -      251.3
Subtotal Institutional and Financial Framework                    351.8      100.5    50.3        -      502.5
B. Reorganization of Existing Transport Modes
Household Survey                                                  150.8          -       -        -      150.8
Transport, Traffic and Parking Plans Study                        201.0      301.5        -       -      502.5
Study of Transport Impact on Air Quality                          100.5          -       -        -      100.5
Subtotal Reorganization of Existing Transport Modes               452.3      301.5       -        -      753.8
C. Competitive Framework for Surface Urban Transport
Study on Bus Service Consolidation and Service Concessioning      135.7       15.1        -       -      150.8
D. Concessioning of the Algiers Subway
Environmental Assessment Study                                    301.5          -       -        -      301.5
Geological Surveys                                                502.5          -        -       -      502.5
Evaluation of Already Completed Civil Works                       402.0          -        -       -      402.0
Assistance to Selection of a Concessionnaire                      603.0      603.0        -       -    1,206.0
Subtotal Concessioning of the Algiers Subway                     1,809.0     603.0       -        -    2,412.0
Total                                                            2,748.7    1,020.1    50.3            3,819.0
Table 6. Project Management
Detailed Costs
Base Cost - Negotiation
2002    2003    2004    2005    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Project Management Unit Establishment             30.2        -       -        -    30.2
Total                                                   30.2       -        -        -    30.2
-41 -



Annex 4
ALGERIA: TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
No economic analysis was needed
-42 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALGERIA: TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Years Ending
June 30
Amounts shown are in US$ '000
| Year 1     Year 2  | Year 3    Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  _Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs        3316.0    5282.0    2265.4       299.5       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs       3316.0    5282.0    2265.4       299.5       0.0        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee   87.2        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing           3403.2    5282.0    2265.4       299.5       0.0        0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA               2635.2    4100.0    1780.0       205.0                  0.0       0.0
Government              768.0     1182.0      462.6      71.6        0.0       0.0       0.0
Central              768.0     1182.0     462.6       71.6       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       22.4      22.4        0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing  3403.2     5282.0    2265.0      299.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 43 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALGERIA: TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Procurement
A. Procurement responsibilities
The MoT, through its Project Management Unit (PMU), will be responsible for the overall
project's procurement activities, including compliance with procedures and timetables agreed with the
Bank. The PMU will coordinate project activities with the representatives of the various transport
sub-sector directorates involved, and SNTF. The PMU Director has already been identified and is a senior
person within the MoT. He will be assisted by a financial manager and an administrative officer who will
be in charge of the financial management and procurement activities of the project respectively.
All contract awards will be approved by the PMU. However, the various transport sub-sector
directorates (Port, civil aviation and urban transport directorates) and SNTF will have delegated
responsibility to prepare the bid documents, negotiate contracts and monitor their execution in coordination
with the PMU.
Specific coordination arrangement will also be needed with the Ministere de la Participation et de
la Coordination des Reformes (MPCR) regarding privatization and/or concessioning of transport services.
B. Procurement Arrangements
Procurement of the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Barik Borrowers" published in January
1997 (revised in September 1997 and January 1999), and the special provisions stipulated in the loan
agreement.
Procurement methods The methods to be used for the procurement described below are
summarized in Table A: Consultant Selection Arrangements.
Selection of Consultants
Consulting services will be contracted under this project as follows: (a) some 21 major studies
(each costing US$200,000 or more) for the port, airport, air transport, railway, and urban transport
components, which are estimated to cost US$7.5 million (80% of the loan proceeds); and (b) technical
assistance and training in the same areas. Details of these studies and services are mentioned in Annex 2.
About US$900,000 (ust below 10% of the loan proceeds) will be allocated to short term expert missions
and training seminars. While some packaging could be envisaged, the need to mobilize the right'expertise
at the right moment will likely mean many small contracts. Study trips will be financed up to a cumulative
amount of US$50,000.
Firms
All contracts for firns would be procured using Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), except
for smaller contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less, which may be procured using
- 44 -



Consultants qualifications (CQ) up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$700,000. The use of the
Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP) is mandatory for contracts estimated to cost more than
US$200,000 equivalent, and should be used whenever possible for contracts below this amount. SRFP will
consist of two standard forms of contract: one for complex time-based consultant assignments, for which
remuneration is determined on the basis of time actually spent by consultants; and the other for assignments
remunerated on a lump-sum basis.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants, selected by comparison
of qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 750,000. Contracts below US$20,000
may however be awarded on sole source basis, with the Banks prior agreement.
C. Assessment of borrower's capacity to implement procurement
Procurement activities will be carried out by the MoT through its PMU referred to above. Since
several departments of MoT, namely the port directorate and the urban transport, as well as the head of the
PMU, have been working with the Bank for many years before, the overall risk assessment resulting from
the PMU's capacity assessment is judged to be average. The PMU will need to have in place a satisfactory
system for filing, monitoring and reporting procurement actions, and should therefore take action to
mitigate these risks.
Procurement Plan
By negotiations, the Borrower will have developed a procurement plan for project implementation.
The proposed plan shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix I to the Guidelines. At the end of each calendar year, the Borrower
will update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year.
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be advertised in the "United Nations Development
Business" (UNDB) not less than six weeks prior to loan signing.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior-review by the Bank and on the basis of the capacity assessment of the
PMU, it is recommended that one supervision mission be sent out every six months during project
implementation to carry out a post review of procurement actions. The overall risk assessment (Average)
means that the post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than I in 5 contracts signed.
-45 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procuremenit Method~
1. Works                              0.00             0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.00             0.00           0.00          0.03         0.03
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00          10.26          0.87        11.13
Studies, consulting services         (0.00)           (0.00)         (8.63)        (0.00)       (8.63)
and training
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                      0.00             0.00           0.09          0.00         0.09
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.09)         (0.00)      (0.09)
Total                              0.00             0.00           10.35         0.90         11.25
(0.00)           (0.00)        (8.72)         (0.00)       (8.72)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 46 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selecton Method
Consultant Services
Expendfture Category   QCBS    QBS    SF8    LCS      CQ      Other   N.Bf. Total CostS
A. Firms              9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.70    0.00    0.70      10.40
(7.50)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.60)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (8.10)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.60    0.00    0.10      0.70
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.50)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.50)
Total  9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.30    0.00    0.80     11.10
(7.50)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (1. 10)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (8.60)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 47 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works
2. Goods
3. Services
Firms                        >100,000                  QCBS                     All
Individuals                   <100,000               QCBS, CQ         Review TOR and short list
>50,000          Section V of Guidelines          All
>20,000 and <50,000    Section V of Guidelines     Review TOR
<20,000            Sole Source possible   Bank's prior agreement
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$6.7 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-48 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Anount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Consulting services, studies and training                     100% of contracts without taxes
(a) for Parts A, B, C, D and F of the      4.30
Project
(b) for Part E of the Project              3.50
Unallocated                                 0.83
Total Project Costs    ____8.63
Front-end fee         0.09                         100%
Total                                       8.72
Assessment of the Financial Management Systems and Action Plan
Institutional and legal framewok
The principles and procedures for financial and budget systems implemented by the MoT are derived from
the Public Accounting law. The transactions in terns of comrnitments and payments are recorded in the
accounting books, which are maintained manually on a cash basis. The annual budget is defined based on
programs and actions agreed between the Ministry of Finance and MoT. Payments of expenditures are
executed after authorization of the financial controller. Authorized payments are processed by BAD if they
are related to investment in foreign currencies. The authorization process ensures that expenses are eligible,
conform, and have been budgeted. Budget control is carried out by the "Inspection Generale des Finances
(IGF)" (the specialized auditing body of the Ministry of Finance) and the "Cours des Comptes", which
ensures supervision of Public funds and issues the "quitus" (acquittal) to the administrator handling them.
The budget and financial departments at the MoT have a competent staff.
Project Implementation
The Project Management Unit (PMU) will be responsible for procurement, budgeting, financial, accounting
and reporting functions, and management of all components of the project. It will ensure that all
project-related activities and related documentation are appropriately maintained and recorded. It will
consolidate all information generated during the implementation of the project by all concerned parties. In
order to be able to efficiently monitor project activities and produce adequate reporting, the PMU (to be
created before Board presentation) will set up a Financial Management System (FMS) and a computerized
system with proper internal control of data by effectiveness. It will be adequately staffed to handle
financial and accounting activities, management of contracts, and prepare the Project Management Reports
(PMR).
The PMU would be responsible for overall project financial management and accounting. It would maintain
cash accounting system for the project, prepare and disseminate Financial Statements (FS) and Financial
Management Reports (FMR). The PMU will ensure that the project FS and related reports are timely
audited and that audit reports are submitted to the Bank according to loan agreement provision. It will
- 49 -



have a correspondent/counterpart, financial officer for the project at the BAD who will be responsible for
processing all applications for payment prepared and sent by the PMU.
Project Accounting System:
Project accounting will cover all sources of project funds (including contributions from beneficiaries), and
all utilization of said funds. All project-related transactions would be recorded in the books of accounts.
Direct disbursements made by the Bank and from the Special Account, opened at the Central Bank of
Algeria (BA) and managed by BAD, on behalf of the project will be included in the project accounting
system. Funds received from different sources (World Bank, Government budget and other possible
financing sources) would be identified separately and reflected in the project accounts and the FS. FS for
the project would be maintained by the PMU using a computerized FMS system. The computerized system
to be developed will be capable of producing financial reports for the Project. Project FMS will be defined
by the consultant who developed the FMS for the Privatization Technical Assistance Project. During an
interim period and with the assistance of MIS staff of the MT, the PMU will adapt the FMS tables I-A
3-A, 3-B) related to use and source of funds and procurement activities. A detailed action plan has been
discussed and agreed upon to ensure that the final PMR reporting formats will be available by June 30,
2002.
Financial Management System (FMS)
The FMS will be designed to capture data and project-related transactions and activities at all stages of
project implementation, including commitments, signature of contracts and authorization by financial
auditor ("Contr6leur Financier"). A Balance reflecting all transactions for the project would be prepared
quarterly and as requested. The data will be captured and classified such as to facilitate financial reporting
of project expenditures. The classification will reflect: (i) budget allocations; (ii) project components and
sub-components; (iii) contracts; (iv) disbursement categories; and (v) sources and uses of funds indicated in
the project documents (Project Implementation Plan, Project Appraisal Document, Project costs).
The FMS will be an adaptation of the public accounting system to meet Bank requirements and guidelines
regarding project financial management. It will define principles and procedures ensuring a pertinent and
comprehensive information flow and centralization of data necessary for monitoring and reporting functions
of the PMU. This will include: (i) forecast procedures; (ii) reconciliation of accounts and documents; (iii)
recording of data received from Direction des Finances Exterieures (DFE) and Direction des Equipements
Publics (DEP) of BAD; (iii) analyzing variations; and (iv) preparation of the PMRs.
Flow of Funds
The allocation of funds would include both counterpart funds from MoT budget and funds from the Bank
and other lenders. Annual budgetary allocations would be based on programmed project activities and
expenditures as prepared by the MoT and PMU. A special account (SA) will be opened at BA and
managed by BAD. Deposit into and payrnents from the SA will be made in accordance with provisions in
the Loan Agreement. Withdrawal applications and replenishment of the SA would be prepared and sent by
BAD (in close coordination with the PMU), carrying the authorized signature.
Information Flow
The PMU would generate and maintain all supporting documentation for expenditures on project-related
activities. It will certify the eligibility and the conformity of expenses and send applications, with all
supporting documents, to BAD for payment. Copies of all applications will be maintained at the PMU.
The PMU would provide monthly summary statements of expenditure based on the FMS system along with
other information and documents. This system would be periodically reviewed during implementation and
improved as necessary.
"Direction des Equipements Publics (DEP)" of BAD will ensure that the expenses are eligible and that the
- 50 -



counterpart funds are available in the budget. It will then issue the payment order and transmit it to "
Direction des Finances Exterieures (DFE)" for payment. DEP will keep copy of the entire documents for
filing. DFE has the responsibility for maintaining the SA and will accordingly ensure that all proposed
amounts to be paid out of the SA relate to the project and are eligible. DFE will send the payment order to
BA for processing.. DFE will keep the original of all supporting documents for filing. After processing the
payment, BA will send a copy of the debit notice to DFE showing the amount paid, the currency and the
exchange rate. For each transaction, DFE will transmit to PMU a detailed statement (regarding the project
accounts and the SA) along with copy of the statements received from BA.
Internal Controls
All expenditures related to project components would be respectively cleared the PMU chief and the
designated financial officer at BAD. Existing internal controls at the MoT and BAD seem to be adequate
and enable:
(i)    monitoring of actual financial performance with budgets and targets;
(ii)   adoption and operation of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which
would govern financial management of and accounting for the project; and
(iii)   ensuring standard internal controls such as monitoring of expenditures, appropriate documentation,
authorization level, divergence of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, etc.;
Financial Management Reports (FMR)
Quarterly, and annually: Each quarter, project FMRs will be generated by the PMU and sent to the Bank
within 45 days after the closing of each quarter. These reports will summarize all transactions, including:
(i) budgeted and actual expenditures with an analysis of major variances on sources and application of
funds by components, expenditure categories, physical parameters and financial targets; (ii) expenditures
by disbursement categories; (iii) forecasts for the coming two quarters; and (iv) contracts management.
Formats of the reports are in the project file.
Annually : Annual audit reports on the project's FS will be submitted to the Bank on June 30 of the
following year. The reports will include: (i) a statement of sources and utilization of funds indicating funds
received from various sources, project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project. This would
also include appropriate schedules classifying project expenditures by components, and expenditure
categories; (ii) a Special Account Reconciliation Statement; and (iii) a Statement of Withdrawals from the
IBRD Loan made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
Auditing Arrangements
An independent auditor, under TORs acceptable to the Bank, will be hired to undertake annual audits of all
project accounts, including the SA. The auditor will carry on its duty in confornity with international audit
standards and on the basis of TORs reviewed by the Bank. The report and the audited project FS would be
submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the close of each fiscal year
The audit should be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project. The Terms of Reference of the
auditors include both audit of financial transaction, and an assessment of the operation of the FMS
(management letter), including a review of internal control mechanisms.
Disbursement:
The SA would be operated and maintained in the Central Bank of Algeria. The authorized allocation of the
SA would be US$870,000 which represents about four months of estimated disbursements from the Bank
Loan. The SA would be operated in accordance with the Bank's operational policies.
- 51 -



Disbursements would be made against Withdrawal Applications for reimbursements of expenditure with
full documentation, reimbursement of expenditures against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and fully
documented expenditures, and direct payments. The Bank would disburse against SOEs foT the following
types of expenditures: (i) contracts for consultants' firms not exceeding US$100,000; (ii) contract for
individual consultants not exceeding US$50,000; and (iii) contracts/expenditures for training and study
tours that are below the equivalent of US$50,000.
Although disbursements would be made using the Bank's existing disbursement procedures (as described
above), it was agreed that PMU would operate the project financial management system and produce
quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) from the system; and that PMU would take necessary steps
(especially the adoption of a computerized system and recruitment of a consultant to that end) to be able to
produce a reliable PMR on a quarterly basis.
Timely preparation and the quality PMRs are essential to effective project management. Disbursements
from the Bank Loan will not be made on the basis of PMRs, but will rather be made on the traditional
reimbursement basis. PMR will be used for proper management of project expenses, financial reporting
and monitoring of project activities.
Risks
There are two main risks relating to financial management aspects: (i) delay in creating the PMU and
difficulties to coordinate project activities; and (ii) delays in preparation and implementation of the FMS,
the FMPM and of PMRs. Both risks are considered manageable due to the various risk-mitigation
measures taken. Nonetheless, these are highlighted here in view of their potential for adversely affecting
project performance. These aspects will be monitored closely as part of project supervision. An action plan
for mitigating these risks is outlined below.
The above-mentioned risks are mitigated by the following factors: (a) commitment to create and maintain a
well staffed PMU by Board Presentation; and designation of representative from each department in the
MoT and a counterpart in Bad responsible for handling all disbursement aspects of the project; (b) hiring of
a consultant to define procedures which would govem management of project expenditures in particular
and to adapt an adequate computerized system for PMR; and (c) implementation of computerized FMS by
the PMU.
ACTION PLAN
The Bank and the MoT agreed to the following actions:
PMU   The PMU includes a project director, a financial specialist, and an administrative officer. The
PMU, under the MoT, will be responsible for consolidating financial and administrative information
provided by the participating subsectors for the project. The PMU should have appropriate means and
skills and provide training to all staff in charge of project finances to properly record transactions and
generate financial reports, and monitor project activities. definition of responsibilities and tasks to be
performed by PMU staff.
FMS An FMPM will be developed and will include a description of procedures for financial management
and internal control, definition of roles and responsibilities of PMU staff, including their counterpart in
BAD, and determination of timetable and frequencies for preparing and transmitting financial data.
Accounting basis A Chart of Accounts for the project will.be designed based on the project's description,
- 52 -



components and its budgetary classification. A manual will support this chart, describing the operation of
each account in accordance with the Public Accounting Law. With the assistance of consultant, the PMU
will develop or adopt a software enabling automatic breakdown of expenses, by category and component,
incurred during project implementation, and build a project database.
FMR The PMU will define the procedures for preparation of the PMR based on information and reports
prepared by the executing agencies. The computerized model should allow appropriate linkages between all
applications to generate information needed for the FMR. The FMR will be submitted to the Bank 45 days
after the end of each quarter.
Timetable The above described action plan will be executed following the attached timetables.
Regarding the implementation of the FMS and building the data base, it was agreed that the PMU will,
during the interim period, adapt tables I-A, 3-A, and 3-13, using excel software to monitor and record data
related to the project. The MIS of the MT will assist the PMU to set up these tables. In the meantime the
PMU will enter into an agreement with the consultant who is preparing the FMS/FMPM for the
Privatization Technical Assistance Project to adapt the FMS to the Transport Technical Assistance
Project..
Actions                                             Dates                  ResRonsibility
Creation and staffing of the PMU                    Before Board           MoT/BAD
Adaptation and preparation of FMS and FMPM          12/31/2001
PMU/Consultant
Development of computerized system (FMS) and test   3/31/2002              PMU &
Consultant                                          effectiveness
Acquisition of needed computers                     3/31/2002              PMU
Preparation of first complete PMR                   6/30/2002              PMU
A Bank mission will review the FMS about eight months after effectiveness and make recommendations for
improvement, if any.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Special account:
NOTE
A sample of table 1 (a), 3 (a) and (b) is in the project file (their format did not allow for inclusion in this
PAD).
- 53 -



The World Bank                                                   1818 H Street N.W. (202)
477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT            Washington, D.C. 20433
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                            U.S.A
December 19, 2000
Republic of Algeria
Technical Assistance Project
Report on the Assessment of Project of PMR-Based Disbursement
[Financial Management System]
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the
review was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management
system as required by the Bank under OPAIBP 10.02
My review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on the Bank's
guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of the
project's accounting system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system,
selection of an auditor as well as the format and contents of the Project Management Report
(PMR) to be submitted by the Borrower in support of Withdrawal Applications.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate project financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information
on the status of the project (PMR) as required by the Bank for the PMR-based Disbursements.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an
agreed action plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Fathi Ben Slimane
Senior Financial Analyst/FMS
MNSID
- 54-



Letter Assessing Procurement/Contract Management System
The World Bank                                                   1818 H Street N.W. (202)
477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT           Washington, D.C. 20433
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                            U.S.A
March 1, 2001
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Report on the Assessment of the Procurement /Contract Management System
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to this project, including
the format and content of the section of Project Management Report (PMR) on procurement
monitoring.
The objective of the review was to determine whether the procurement/contract management
system adopted by the project conforms to the Bank's guidelines for procurement in investment
projects.
My review was based on the "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project
Procurement, Setting of Prior Review Thresholds and Procurement Supervision Plan"
guidelines issued by the Bank.
I certify that the project has in place a procurement/contract management system that can
provide the appropriate data on major procurement and contract management as required by the
Bank.
Claude Archambault
Senior Transport Specialist
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
- 55 -



Letter Assessing Physical Monitorable Indicators and Overall Assessment
The World Bank                                                    1818 H Street N.W. (202)
477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT             Washington, D.C. 20433
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                             U.S.A
March 1, 2001
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Report on the Assessment of the Physical Monitorable Indicators
and Overall Assessment
I have reviewed the project's system for monitoring physical implementation progress, including
its monitorable indicators for major outputs, and certify that the system can provide the
appropriate data on physical progress (PMR - section 2) as required by the Bank.
I also certify that based on the assessments of the FPS-OPR and the Procurement Specialist given
above, taken together with my own overall assessment of the project, this project is suitable for
consideration under the PMR-based disbursement procedure.
Michel Loir
Principal Transport Economist
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
- 56 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALGERIA: TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ProJect Schedule                                    Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       6                             9
First Bank mission (identification)              09/24/2000                    09/24/2000
Appraisal mission departure                       11/17/2001                    11/17/2000
Negotiations                                     04/16/2001                    06/10/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/31/2001
Prepared by:
NA
Preparation assistance:
Other than Bank staff listed below, project preparation was assisted by Mr. Richard Lanthier, Consultant,
for definition of needs and TA assistance design under the airport component.
The Ministry of Transport in Algeria participated actively and effectively in project preparation.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name       ______l_Specl_i_y___
Michel Loir                        Transport Economics
Hubert Nove-Josserand              Urban Transport
Karim-Jacques Budin                Railway management and operations
Patrick Fourgeaud                  Port management and operation
Yves Duvivier                      Private sector development
Pierre Vieillescazes               Project finance; Bank guarantees
Fathi Ben Slimane                  Financial management
Claude Archambault                 Procurement
Hocine Chalal                      Environmental safeguards
- 57 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALGERIA: TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A. Project Implementation Plan
A draft was submitted at negotiations. The final PIP will be submitted as a condition of effectiveness.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
The Aide Memoires of the Preappraisal mission (October 2000) and of the Appraisal mission (November
2001) contain the project team assessments.
C. Other
Ministere des Transports.    "Note sur la Strategie de Developpernent du Secteur des Transports (Avril
2001)
*Including electronic files
- 58 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALGERIA: TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Feb-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                  disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                           IBRD          IDA                            Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P069947        2000 DZ-TEERP                                              83.46       0.00                              0.00       83.46      23.50       0.00
P070123        2000 OZ-Privatization Assistance (LIL)                      5.00       0.00                              0.00        5.00       0.00       0.00
P070308        2000 DZ-Telecommunications and Postal Sector                9.00       0.00                              0.00        9.00       1.68       0.00
P042940        1998 DZ-LOW INCOME HOUSING                                150.00       0.00                               0.00     140.00     100.20        1.33
P043724        1997 RURAL EMPLOYMENT                                      89.00       0.00                               0.00      61.79      61.79       13.13
P004978        1996 SOCIAL SAFETY                                         50.00       0.00                               0.00       5.13        5.13      5.13
P004960        1996 IND.POLLUTION CTRL.                                   78.00       0.00                              0.00       66.51      34.59      24.51
P004907        1995 DZ-HIGHWAYSVI                                        130.00       0.00                               0.00      50.12      43.26       0.12
P004974        1994 DZ-WATER SUPPLYAND SEWERAGE                          110.00       0.00                              0.00       93.10      84.00       11.51
P004954        1993 BASIC & SEC. EDUCATI                                  40.00       0.00                               5.00       6.56      11.56        1.28
Total:      744.46         0.00                             5.00       520.67     365.71       57.02
- 59 -



ALGERIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               ABCA                            0.00    1.88    0.00     0.00     0.00    1.88     0.00    0.00
2000               AIP                             0.00    0.30     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               Aldaph                          5.96    1.70    0.00     5.11     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1992               Helios                          2.67    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.67    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               SGA                             0.00    1.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.19     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         8.63     4.88    0.00     5.11     2.67    2.07     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Comrnitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitnent:         0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
- 60 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALGERIA: TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
M. Eait   Lower-
POVERTY ant SOCIAL                                             & Neorlt   m&tle.
AlWe*      Africa   inomwne     Development diamond
1999
Populatn. mtd-vear lmillions)                          30.0        291     2.094                  Ufe expectancy
GNP Der capita (Atlas method, USS)                    1,550      2.060     1-200
GNP (Atlas method, VS billins)                         4368        599     2,513
Averags annual growth, 1993-99
Powlation (%-                                           1.8        2.1       1.1      G 
Labor force (U)                                         3.7        3.0       t,2      GNP                              Gross
Moat recent aemaft", (I*t.etyeer tvl#abl.*'   II)                                     per                             primary
capita                       enrollment
Povertv LU opopeulation below .ilanlo povent line)       14
Urben coDuation (% of totaltwulation)                    s0         SS        43
1Le expectancy at birth (vears)                          71              69   S
infant mortaly (par 1.000 live births)                   3S         45        33
Child malnuttition /X  f children under 5)S              13         13        13                Access to safe water
Access to Impeoved woatr source (% of ooptutian)         70         71        86
Iliteracy (% of pooulslJon a 15.)                        33         36        16
Gros orirnarv enrollment M of school    popultion)      108         95       t1          -Algeia
Male                                                  113        102       114               Loweer-middle-income group
Female                                                102        88        116
KEY ECONOMIC RAtIOS and LON*-TERM TtENOS
1t79     1U9        tt        19n
Economic ratloe
GOP (US$ bIlions)                             33.3     64.9       47A4      47.9
Gross domestic irwes*nentlGDP                 42.4     29.0       27.7      274                       Trade
Exports of goots and aerviceslGDP             31.1      U8.       22.9      27.6
Gross domestic savinas/GoP                    40.7     29.3       27.1      31.7
Gross netionat sevingsaGDP                    3f.1     29.6       25.0      2i.9
Current acCount batance/G0P                    4.9     -1.9        1.9.      00       Domestic 
Interest paymentWGDP                           3.8      3.2        4.0       3        S9avingS
Total debt/GDP                                563      49.3       84.7      58,6      SavIngs                      Ivsen
Total debt swevicelwoorxt                     28.8     66.3       45.6      36.3.
Present vaue of debUGDP                                                                              V 63l2
Present value of dbtUaxporb                                      265J
Indebtedness
1*9"s  10S81-9 9S    tS         1993   11*1-03
(avenoge annual gr9wh)
GOP                                   318      1.2      61t        3.3       3,9          -     Algeda
GNP ot capfta                        0.0       .0       5.2        1.5       1.9          -     Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and srvioe          3.4       2.6      1.6        0.2  --
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1990      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   10.6     14.9       12.1      11.4
Industry                                      50.5     41.6       47.3      50.7       a
Manufacturing                               10.2      11.0      10.6        9.6
Services                                      38.9     43.5       40.6      37.9       5           95   95   97    9    go
Private consumption                           45.6     53.8       54.8      51.3    -10
General aovemment consumrtion                 13.7     16.9       18.1      17.0                  GDI          a  GDP
Imoorts of aoods and services                 32.8     18.3       23.5      23.3
(average annual growth)                    1979-f9  1989-99       1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                    4.7      2.6       11.4       2.7    10
Industry                                       2.7      0.8        3.9       4.8      a
Manufacturing                                5.7      -7.1        6.7       1.5      o
Services                                       4.0      2.0        3.9       2.8                                    99   so
Private consumption                            2.6      2.6        2.4       2.9   -10
General government consumption                 4.7      3.8        2.6       2.5
Gross domestic investment                     .1.6     -1.7        3.3       2.7       -
Imports of goods and services                 -2.8     -2.3        6.5       1.8            -     Exports   Ilmports
Gross national Droduct                         3.1       1.2       5.9       3.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with Its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 61 -



Algeria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1998      1999     Inflation
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                       40
Consumer prices                             11.5     9.3       5.0       2.6    20
Implickit GDP deflator                      14.0    14.6      -4.1      10.9
Govemment finance                                                                o       I
(YO of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    94   95   96   97
Current revenue                              ..    28.9       27.8      29.8   .20
Current budget balance                       ..    9.1         4.0       5.5           -     GDP deflator    a CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..    -1.8       -3.9      -0.5
TRADE
1979    1989      1998      1999     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   9,561    10,140   12,320    1500D
Crude oil                                         1,894     1,943    2,735
Condensate                                        2,535     1,953    2,422
Manufactures                                ..    234         42        46
Total imports (cif)                           ..  10,289     8,630    8,960
Food                                        ..   2,925      2,657    2,609     s
Fuel and energy                             ..    127        110       127
Capital goods                                ..   2,335     2,907    3,155        0
93  94  95  95  97  98  99
Export price index (1995=100)                ..    101          81       93
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      85        92       94                ErExports    U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..    119         88       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989      1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services            10,137   10,147    10,880   13,040      8 -
Importsofgoodsandservices                10,911   11,336    10,850   11,520
Resource balance                           -774   -1,189        30    1,520      4 -
Net income                                -1,091   -1,893    -2,000   -2,290
Net current transfers                       226    2,053     1,060      790      o *
Current account balance                   -1,639   -1,030     -910       20    J4
Financing items (net)                     2,060      388      -180   -2,370
Changes in net reserves                    -421      642     1,090    2,350     4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)    2,916    1,104     7,121    4,668
Conversion rate (DEC, loca#US$)              3.9     7.6      58.7      66.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     18,507   27,072    30,665   28,079
IBRD                                      227      960     1,676    1,540                  G:186 A:1,676
IDA                                         0        0         0        0                                 2,011
Total debt service                         3,053    7,001    5,136    5,084         F. 9.054
IBRD                                       30      183       333      327         F. 90                      :2,713
IDA                                         0        0         0        0              J0 :20  .
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            21       68       107
Official creditors                        710      107      -213      -106
Private creditors                       2,112      339    -1,328   -1,002
Foreign dirdct Investment                  26       12         5      460
Portfolio equity                            0        0         2        0                            E: 15,025
World Bank program
Commitments                               188      839       150        0      A-IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                              47      204        56       74      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        7      112       208      199      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                   40       92      -152     -125
Interest payments                          22       70       124      126
Net transfers                              18       21      -276     -251
Development Economics                                                                                            8/25/00
- 62 -



