Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7073-AL 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Transport Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 12, 2002 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7073-AL 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 12, 2002, between PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Algiers Wilaya” means the administrative division of the Borrower 
relating to Algiers, organized pursuant to the Borrower’s Wilaya Law (Loi
relative
à
la
Wilaya
)
No. 90-09, dated April 7, 1990 and Law No. 01-03, dated May 9, 2001, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(b) 
 “BAD” means the Borrower’s Algerian Development Bank (Banque
Algérienne
de
Développement
), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Ordinance No. 71-47, dated June 30, 1971, as the same may be amended from time to 
time; 
(c) 
“Banque d'Algérie” means the Borrower’s central bank, operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 1990, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(d) 
“CAMD” means the civil aviation and meteorology directorate within 
MOT (as this term is hereinafter defined);  
 
(e) 
“Coordination and Monitoring Committee” means the coordination and 
monitoring committee to be established by the Borrower in accordance with 
Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Disbursed Amount” means in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said Interest 
Period; 
 
(g) 
“Environmental Audit” means the environmental audit, acceptable to the 
Bank, to be prepared by the Borrower under Part A.4 of the Project, with a view to: 
(i) determine the nature and extent of all areas pertaining to any existing facility of the 
Port of Djen-Djen which, from an environmental point of view, are or may constitute a 
source of concern; and (ii) identify and justify appropriate mitigating measures with 
respect to the areas referred to in sub-paragraph (i) above, including an estimate of the cost 
of said measures and recommendations regarding the timetable for the implementation of 
said measures; 
 
(h) 
“Environmental Impact Assessment” means the environmental impact 
assessment, acceptable to the Bank, to be prepared by the Borrower under Part E.3 (a) of 
the Project, aiming at, inter alia: (i) identifying and assessing the actual or potential 
environmental impact of construction activities to be carried out for the Algiers subway 
system; (ii) evaluating alternatives; and (iii) defining and recommending suitable 
mitigating, management and monitoring measures with regard to the construction 
activities referred to in sub-paragraph (i) above, with a view to ensuring compliance of 
such activities with said measures and to limiting any actual or potential adverse 
environmental impact; 
 
(i) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental 
management plan for the implementation of the Project, dated December 26, 2001, 
acceptable to the Bank and incorporated in the Project Implementation Plan (as this term 
is hereinafter defined), which, inter alia: (i) details the measures to be taken by the 
Borrower to eliminate or offset the adverse environmental impacts resulting from the 
carrying out of activities under the Project, or to reduce such impacts to acceptable levels; 
and (ii) defines the actions to be taken by the Borrower to implement the measures 
referred to in sub-paragraph (i) above, as such plan may be updated from time to time by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(j) 
“Maturity Fixing Date” means for each Disbursed Amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date being 
the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which said 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(k) 
“MPCR” means the ministry of participation and coordination of reforms 
of the Borrower (ministère
de
la
participation
et
de
la
coordination
des
réformes
); 
 
(l) 
“MOF” means the ministry of finance of the Borrower; 
 
(m) 
“MOILC” means the ministry of interior and local collectivities of the 
Borrower (ministère
de
l’intérieur
et
des
collectivités
locales
); 
 
(n) 
“MOT” means the ministry of transport of the Borrower;  
 
(o) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the project implementation plan to 
be prepared by the Borrower in accordance with Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, 
which, inter alia: (i) defines the respective roles and responsibilities for the 
implementation of the Project; (ii) details the institutional arrangements for the 
coordination of the Project; (iii) sets forth the timetable of actions required under the 
Project; (iv) details the financial management procedures for the Project, including, inter 
alia, the auditing, accounting and financial reporting arrangements for the Project; 
(v) includes the Environmental Management Plan; and (vi) describes the procedures to be 
used for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; and includes all other relevant provisions, as such plan may be reviewed from 
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(p) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(q) 
“Project Management Unit” means the project management unit 
established by the Borrower pursuant to decision No. 359-Cab-M of the Minister of 
Transport dated July 3, 2001; 
 
(r) 
“SNTF” means the Borrower’s national railway company (Société 
nationale
des
transports
ferroviaires
)
;
(s) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(t) 
“Task Force” means the task force referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be established by the Borrower, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, comprising representatives of MOT, MOF, MOILC and the 
Algiers Wilaya, to identify and handle the technical and financial aspects involved in the 
creation of the Urban Transport Management Authority (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) and to issue recommendations to the Borrower on the measures required for the 
creation of said Authority; and 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(u) 
“Urban Transport Management Authority” or “UTMA” means the 
autonomous management and regulatory authority in charge of urban transport of the 
greater Algiers to be established by the Borrower under Part E.2 of the Project. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to eight million 
seven hundred twenty thousand Dollars ($8,720,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Banque d’Algérie on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to eighty six thousand two hundred sixty Dollars ($87,200). The Borrower agrees 
that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions, to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the variable rate; provided, that upon a conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the conversion period, pay interest on 
Page  6
-
5
-
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments 
payable on each April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the 
eleventh (11th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said 
Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on the twenty-ninth (29th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. 
Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one nineteenth (1/19th) of said 
Disbursed Amount. The last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding 
amount of said Disbursed Amount. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable after October 15, 2018, the Borrower shall 
also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. 
 
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency 
that shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; and 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in 
Section 2.01 (7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower 
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, 
financial, technical, administrative, environmental and transport practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, the Project Implementation Plan and the Environmental Management 
Plan. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of 
said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2002, or such 
later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a
Project Management Report for such period. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower has prepared and submitted to the Bank a Project 
Implementation Plan, satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower has established the Coordination and Monitoring 
Committee, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Immeuble Maurétania 
 
Place de Pérou   
 
 
Algiers 16000 
 
People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINPLAN 
 67073 
  (213) 
2-736440 
 
Algiers 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI); or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
OF ALGERIA 
 
By /s/ Idriss El Jazairy 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Christian Delvoie 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Categories
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Consu
ltants’  
100% 
 services, 
training 
 
and study tours 
 
(a)  for Parts A, B, 
 
C, D and F of  
 the 
Project 
4,300,000 
 
(b)  for Part E of the  
 
Project 3,500,000 
 
(2) 
Fee 
87,200 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(3) Unallocated 
832,800 
 
_______
TOTAL 8,720,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) expenditures under Category 1 (b) unless the Borrower shall have 
first established the Task Force. 
 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) services under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms; (ii) services under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; (iii) study 
tours under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (iv) training 
activities under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) set up an institutional and policy 
framework conducive to private participation in infrastructure and liberalization of the 
transport sector; (b) demonstrate the viability of mainstreaming transport concessions; 
(c) 
strengthen the transport sector’s management and regulatory capacities; and 
(d) rehabilitate railways with a view to increase transport cost efficiency at the national 
level. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Ports
1. 
Assist, through the provision of technical assistance, in finalizing and 
implementing a new port institutional framework with a view to strengthen the planning, 
land management and regulatory capacities of the public administration and create a 
market-based environment conducive to private sector participation, including: (a) the 
apportionment of specific responsibilities to port authorities; (b) the evaluation of options to 
regulate port activities; (c) the review of the legal and regulatory framework; (d) the 
strengthening of MOT’s capacities in handling port and environmental regulations; and 
(e) the strengthening of the regional port authorities to implement the new port institutional 
framework. 
 
2. 
Devise a strategy for the liberalization of commercial port activities, through the 
provision of technical assistance. 
 
3. 
Devise a national port development strategy, through the provision of technical 
assistance. 
 
4. 
Support the concession process of the Port of Djen-Djen, including: (a) the 
preparation of technical studies; (b) the carrying out of a market survey; (c) the carrying out 
of an Environmental Audit; and (d) assistance in executing the concession process, through 
the provision of technical assistance. 
 
5. 
Assist in the implementation of the Borrower’s program to facilitate international 
trade procedures, through the carrying out of surveys and the organization of information 
dissemination activities. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
Part B
:
Airports
1. 
Evaluate and reform the national airport policy framework with a view to 
promote new airport concessions and ensure the financial sustainability of the national 
airport system, through the provision of technical assistance. 
 
2. 
Assist the Borrower in defining its airport strategy, including the identification 
and preparation of new airport concession schemes, through the preparation of studies 
and the organization of a workshop. 
 
3. 
Develop the regulatory capacity of CAMD, through the provision of technical 
assistance, training and the carrying out of local information dissemination activities. 
 
Part C
:
Air Transport
1. 
Formulate the Borrower’s national air transport strategy with a view to liberalize 
international air transport, including assistance to CAMD in negotiating bilateral and/or 
multilateral agreements, through the provision of technical assistance and the preparation 
of studies. 
 
2. 
Review and adapt the legal, regulatory and institutional framework to the 
Borrower’s liberalization program, and strengthen the management capacity, through the 
provision of technical assistance and training, the preparation of studies and the 
organization of study tours. 
 
Part D
:
Railways
1. 
Assist the Borrower in redefining and adapting the role of railways in a market-
based economy, through the provision of technical assistance and training. 
 
2. 
Review and adapt the regulatory and institutional framework, through the 
provision of technical assistance and training. 
 
3. 
Assist in restructuring SNTF with a view to increase its competitiveness and 
financial sustainability, through the provision of advisory services, the preparation of 
studies and the organization of workshops. 
 
4. 
Strengthen SNTF capacities in financial, technical and commercial management, 
through the provision of technical assistance. 
 
5. 
Design a priority investment program to support the rehabilitation of the railways 
sector, through the carrying out of studies.  
 
Page  16
-
15
-
Part E
:
Urban Transport
1. 
Review and adapt the institutional and financial framework of urban transport in 
Algiers, including: (a) completion of the study relating to the institutional organization of 
transport in Greater Algiers; (b) the assessment and revision of price control and funding 
policies and mechanisms; and (c) assistance in implementing the new institutional 
framework, through the provision of training and advisory services and the preparation of 
studies. 
 
2. 
Establish UTMA and promote the reorganization and expansion of public 
transport, including: (a) the carrying out of a household survey; (b) the design of a 
transport master plan for the greater Algiers addressing, inter alia, urban traffic 
management and parking; and (c) an assessment of transport impact on ambient air 
quality in the greater Algiers, through the provision of technical assistance and the 
preparation of studies. 
 
3. 
Assist in the preparation and carrying out of the concession process of the 
Algiers subway system, including: (a) the carrying out of an Environmental Impact 
Assessment; (b) the evaluation of already completed geotechnical surveys; (c) the 
evaluation of already completed civil works; and (d) the selection of a concessionaire, 
through the provision of technical assistance. 
 
Part F
:
Project Financial Management
Design and implementation of a suitable financial management system for the 
Project, through the provision of technical assistance. 
 
*** 
 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
 
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract for 
consulting firms may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, estimated to cost less than $50,000, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan, as such plan shall have been updated on an annual 
basis and have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Project Coordination, Implementation and Management
1. 
The Borrower shall vest MOT with the overall responsibility for the 
implementation of the Project. To this end, MOT shall be assisted by the Project 
Management Unit. The Borrower shall maintain the Project Management Unit, 
throughout the life of the Project, with professional staffing in adequate number, whose 
experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank. The Project 
Management Unit shall be managed by a Project director who shall operate under the 
auspices of MOT. The Project Management Unit shall be responsible for, inter alia, the 
procurement and disbursement processes under the Project, 
monitoring consultants’ 
performance, coordinating the implementation of Project activities and liaising with SNTF 
and MOT directorates concerned by the Project. The Borrower shall ensure that a financial 
management specialist in charge of payments for contracts financed under the Project be 
designated within BAD. 
 
2. 
The Project Management Unit shall operate under the auspices of the Coordination 
and Monitoring Committee. The Coordination and Monitoring Committee shall be presided 
by the Secretary General of MOT as Committee Chairman and comprise, inter alia, 
representatives of different MOT directorates and ministries concerned by the Project and 
the Algiers Wilaya. The Coordination and Monitoring Committee shall oversee the 
implementation of the Project and liaise with MPCR with regard to privatization 
transactions in the transport sector. 
 
B. Mid-Term 
Review
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about October 31, 2002 a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on, inter 
alia: (i) the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report; (ii) the progress achieved in the establishment of the 
Urban Transport Management Authority; (iii) the advancement of the concession process 
of the Algiers subway, the Algiers Airport and part of the Port of Djen-Djen; (iv) the 
opening of the port service market to private sector participation; and (v) the 
advancement of the liberalization of air transport, and setting out the measures 
Page  20
-
19
-
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by January 31, 2003 or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Category (1) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$750,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Page  22
-
21
-
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the eligible Categories, 
and in the equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
Page  23
-
22
-
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
