r-l
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL
I  MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK:
I   ANGOLA SOCIAL ACTION FUND III (FAS 111)
!
I                                    I.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
^1~~~A
II-
Prepared on behalf of FAS
(Angola)
May 2003



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS ///. Final Report
INDEX
INDEX ....... ......     ........    .. .....  . ....... ... .......2
INDEX OF TABLES.....      ......    ........      .......   .........         ........4
INDEX  OF  FiGuREs  . ......                            . .   ....  ......   ........  .   .   .  ..4
1 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ..........................................................6
2     N R   DU  T O .INTRODUCTION..................................................14......1
1.1 BACKGROUND.....       ..................        ...............                 14
1 2 PROJECT DESCRIPTION ...  . .......     . .......      ....           .........1 5
1 3 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.....................       ............    ..............18
1. 3. 1 Component L. Community Development Component (CDC)....... .......  ..... .   18
1.3.2 Component 1II: Municipal Development Component (MDC)         . .  ... .....  21
1.4 ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS......          ......      .... .       .. ..    ...... 22
2. SALIENT ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES AND ISSUES IN ANGOLA .....................24
3. POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT IN ANGOLA...........................................................32
3.1 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY....      ....    ...............................           32
3 2 LEGAL FRAMEWORK ....... ................       .........                    . .. . 33
3.3 INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK.....  .......   ..................................      35
4. REVIEW OF SELECTED WORLD BANK SAFEGUARD POLICIES........................37
4 1 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (OP AND BP 4 01) .....    .....        ....      ......37
4.2 FORESTRY (OP 4.36) .... ......   ......   .......   ......         ..I....    ...39
4.3 NATURAL HABITATS (OP & BP 4.04) .  .....   .......   ......  ........       .....  39
4 4 INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT (OP & BP 4 12).....   .........       ...   .........  40
4.5 SAFETY OF DAMS (OP & BP 4.37)... .................    ......     .......    .....40
4 6 RECOMMENDED APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT........._.    . ...... ........40
5. POTENTIAL SUB-PROJECTS ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS AND
MITIGATING MEASURES .............................................................41
5 1 OVERVIEW OF SUB PROJECTS....................      ..........    ..............41
5.2 SUB-PROJECTS/CIVIL WORKS, IMPACTS AND MITIGATION.. ..  ..  .    ......     .....4 1
S 2. 1 Buildings/Services (including schools, clinics and markets)..... ............. .   42
5.2.2. Small-scale Water Supply Projects... ...... .......    ....-........44
5.2.3. Family and Public Toilets ....... .  ...... ........   .  .............45
5.2.4 Roads and bridges ......... ............... ..........      ....."........46
5 3 TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL OF WASTES.    .....    ..............                    .48
5 4 RECOMMENDATIONS...........        .......      ...........                     ...48
6. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PLANNING, REVIEW AND CLEARING FOR SUB-
PROJECTS     ...............................................................49............4
6  1 THE SCREENING  FRAMEWOR-K..... ....... ........     ......     ........  .     49
6.2 COMPLETING OF THE CHECKLIST ......  ..... ......  ........       .......   .....50
6 2.1 The Process funded under Component 1. Community Development Component . .........50
6 2 2 The Process funded under Component 2. Municipal Development Component ...........51
6.3 INSTIT UTIONAL ARRANGEMENT FOR PLANNING, REvIEW AND CLEARING OF SUB-PROJECTS..... . 52
A NUMBER OF BODIES WILL BE INVOLVED IN THE SCREENING, REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF SUB-PROJECTS
FOR COMPONENTS 1 (CDC) AND 2 (MDC). THESE BODIES, AND THEIR RESPECTIVE ROLES, ARE LISTED
BELOW      .....  . ....... .....    .....  I  ......     .....    ......   .   ......  .52
7. SUB-PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.................54
7 1 BACKGROUND ..      ............   ...I   .....        ...       ...      .....  .54
7.2 INTEGRATING THE ENvIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PLAN INTO SUB-PROJECT CYCLE .. 54
7 3 INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENT FOR IMPLEMENTING THE ESMP. ....      .............    56
CONTRACTORS ......       .....    ........  .............       ............        57
7.4 PROVISION OFTEcHNICAL ASSISTANCE..... .... .                              .     ...58
2



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
ALLOCATED TIME: 4 MONTHS PER YEAR ...................................... 58
8. CAPACITY OF NATIONAL, PROVINCIAL, LOCAL AND COMMUNITY ADMINISTRATIONS
TO ADDRESS ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS ..................................... 59
TRAINING AREA ..................................... 59
9. MONITORING PLAN .....................................                                    61
10. PUBLIC CONSULTATION PLAN .....................................                          63
11. COSTS ...................64
12. BIBLIOGRAPHY .....................................                                     65
ANNEXES ...................66
TASK 5 PUBLIC CONSULTATION ...........................                                     76
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS.                   ...... .                                  .. .. 97
THE COMMUNICATION PLAN ...........................                                         98



Environmental and Social Management Framework: FAS Ill. Final Report
Index of Tables
Table 1. FAS Ill Sub-Projects per Category ................                   ................................ 17
Table 2. Description of Protected Areas in Angola ................................................             30
Table 3. Roles for mitigation measures and/or monitoring .............................................. 56
Table 4. Main training areas per group ................................................                      59
Index of Figures
Figure 1. Main vegetation types occurring in Angola. I UCN, 1992 ................................... 25
Figure 2. Location of Protected Areas in Angola ..................................                           29
4



Environmental and Social Management Framework: FAS Wll. Final Report
LIST OF ACRONYMS
BP    Bank Procedures
CC    Coordination Committee
CDD Community Driven Development
CDC Community Development Component
CF    Consultative Forum
DNA The National Directorate for the Environment
DNCN National Directorate for Nature Conservation
EA    Environmental Assessment
ESMP Environmental and Social Management Plan
ENA Estrategia Nacional de AmbientelNational Environmental Strategy
ESSC Environmental and Social Screening Checklist (ESSC)
FAS Fundo de Apoio Social
FOES Economic and Social Development Fund
GOA Government of Angola
MA    Municipal Administration
MDC Municipal Development Component
MDP Municipal development plan
MINUAMinistry of Urbanism and Environment
MOU Memorandum of Understanding
NC    Nucleo Comunitario/Community Nucleus
OP    Operational Policy
PNGA Programa Nacional de Gestao Ambiental/National Environmental Management
Programme
SHS Semi-Hazardous Substances
PS    Promoters Sociais/Social Promoters
TSS Transitional Support Strategy
WB World Bank



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS IL. Final Report
I EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Objectives of this Study
Based on desk-top and field studies an Environmental and Social Management
Framework (this report) has been prepared for the Fundo de Apoio Social Phase III for
which the Government of Angola has requested WB funding.
The main objectives of the report are:
*  To identify the potential environmental and social impacts and associated
mitigating measures related to sub-project's that are likely to implemented
under FAS 111.
* To develop an Environmental and Social Screening Checklist with clear
directives to determine potential impacts of the sub-project during sub-project
identification and approval;
* To develop an Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) assigning
roles and responsibilities for impact mitigation and monitoring during the
planning, construction and operation phases of a sub-project.
The Project
The development objective of FAS Ill is to achieve improved, expanded and sustainable
utilization of basic social and economic services and to support a governance system
where local government and communities can gradually become mutually accountable.
The FAS Ill components covered by the Environmental and Social Management
Framework are:
Component 1: Community Development (CD). This component will finance local initiatives
to build and restore social and economic infrastructure based on communities' own
identification, prioritization, implementation and maintenance of small-scale sub-projects.
Component 11: Municipal Development (MD). This component will assist municipal
governments (including municipal administrations and municipal councils) with capacity
development and financial resources to become proficient in the provision of social and
economic services to communities. Once proficient, municipal governments will gradually
take over responsibility from FAS management and prepare and implement municipal
level sub-projects in participation with communities.
The FAS Ill sub-projects fall under the following broad categories:
* Social: Education
* Social: Health
* Social: Water and Sanitation
6



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Il Fhnal Report
*  Productive: Markets, water troughs for livestock, dipping tanks etc.
* Economic: Roads, small bridges etc.
2     Major Findings
The project will bring about an improvement in social conditions in peri-urban and rural
areas through the provision of infrastructures such as schools, health posts, water supply
and sanitation etc. The proposed scope of sub-projects envisaged for the FAS Ill may
result in localized environmental impacts of minor significance for which mitigation
measures can (and must) be implemented during the design, construction and operational
phases of each sub-project. Raising environmental awareness and capacity for
environmental management at the community level is the key for the successful
implementation of management measures especially during at the operational phase (i.e.
the proper operation and maintenance of infrastructures).
Some of the main negative environmental impacts associated with FAS Ill sub-projects
include:
Buildings/Services (including schools, clinics and markets).
*  Inappropriate location of construction sites may result in the loss of natural or
sensitive habitats, loss of productive land, soil erosion and water logging;
*  Construction activities may result accumulation of solid wastes due to
construction activities creating health risks and negative aesthetic impacts;
*  During the operational phase a main concern will be to maintain hygienic
conditions at schools, clinics and markets (solid waste disposal, maintenance
of sanitary conditions etc.). In the case of clinics the collection and disposal of
medical wastes is particularly important.
Small-scale Water Supply Projects
*  Boreholes and wells may be subject to contamination from pit latrines, septic
tanks and soak-aways and should be sited on relatively higher ground level
and at least 30 m away from potentially contaminating sources;
*  Ponding of stagnant water may occur if there inadequate drainage for residual
water (especially in the case of washing stands and bath/showers) and the
drainage channels must be well maintained and kept free of debris and litter;
*  Wells not fitted with hand pumps are susceptible to contamination.
Family and Public Toilets
In order not to contaminate water supplies latrines should be constructed down hill from
wells and boreholes and at least 30 m from the water supply. Failure to maintain the
facilities results in heath risks and proactive management is required following
construction.
Roads and bridges
7



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 111. Final Report
* The opening of borrow pits and establishment of workers camps will require
clearing of vegetation and their location must be carefully selected in order to
minimize disturbance to human communities and natural vegetation.
*  Inadequate drainage may result in erosion and/or flooding.
* The project should ensure that adequate maintenance procedures are in place
following rehabilitation.
Environmental and Social Screening
In order to assist in the environmental evaluation of sub-projects the Report includes a
simple Environmental and Social Screening Checklist (ESSC) that has been prepared to
identify environmental impacts at an early stage of project design. The checklist must be
completed by the Social Promoters and/or Nucleos Comunitarios for each potential sub-
project prior to approval. If there is at least one "yes" answer then the SP/NC are obliged
to identify environmental management measures.
The completed screening checklist plus a brief description of the environmental
management measures is submitted, together with other application forms, to the FAS
Provincial Offices.
Provincial FAS Team will review the Screening Checklist to determine whether the
checklist has been completed satisfactorily and to recommend a course of action, vis-a-
vis approval (if the proponent has included adequate mitigation measures in the project
design) or reformulation (proponent must revise the proposed project to provide adequate
mitigation).
Once determined to be satisfactory the sub-project may then be approved.
Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP)
For approval, each sub-project proposal must contain an ESMP that will consist of a set of
mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken during implementation and
operations to manage and monitor adverse environmental and social impacts
The ESMP:
*  Identifies potential environmental and social impacts and mitigation measures to
avoid impacts during sub-project planning, construction and operational phases;
*  Designates responsibilities and lines of communication for staff responsible for
environmental management of sub-projects (including impact mitigation and
monitoring for compliance).
It is recommended that technical assistance be provided to FAS Ill through the
contracting of a "stand- by" Technical Advisor (TA) who will assist FAS with the training of
staff through "on-the job" training and the implementation of the ESMP.
Training and Sensitization Programs
8



Environmental and Social Afanagement Framework. FAS 1l1. Final Report
Technical capacity to identify, manage, and monitor the environmental impacts associated
with the implementation of the FAS III sub-projects is considered to be low. Environmental
training will be directed towards technical personnel who are involved with identification,
approval and monitoring of sub-projects and their community representative counterparts.
Training, awareness raising and/or sensitization will be required for FAS Central technical
staff, FAS Provincial technical staff, Municipal Administrations, Social Promotors and
Nucleo Comunitarios.
As many of sub-projects will be designed and co-managed by community representatives
it is of critical importance that the elected representatives receive training in
environmental screening and management. A component of the training program should
be the 'training of trainers' (i.e., the SPs) who can then train community members in
environmental management.
The training materials should include at least the following components:
*  Case studies of sub-projects that can be used to demonstrate the basic
principles of environmental management;
*  Practicing the screening guidelines;
*  An overview of environmental assessment;
*  Review of relevant environmental legislation and policies;
*  Designing effective public awareness campaigns;
*  Conflict resolution
*  Training of trainers to work with environmental management at community-
level.



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 11l. Final Report
SUMARIO EXECUTIVO
Objectivos do Estudo
O presente relat6rio , um Quadro de Gestao Ambiental e Social, baseou-se em estudos
de desk-top e de campo e foi preparado para o Fundo de Apoio Social Phase Ill, para o
qual o Governo de Angola solicitou fundos do BM.
Os principais objectivos do relat6rio sao:
* Identificar os potenciais impactos ambientais e sociais, e respectivas medidas
de mitigar,co, de sub-projectos susceptiveis de vir a ser implementados no
FAS III;
*  Desenvolver uma Ficha de Pre-avalia,co Ambiental e Social com indica,o-es
claras que permitam determinar impactos potenciais de sub-projectos durante
as suas fases de identifica,co e aprova,co;
*  Desenvolver um Plano de Gestao Ambiental e Social (PGAS) descrevendo
regras de conduta e atribuindo responsabilidades pela mitiga,co de impactos
e monitoriza,co durante as fases de planeamento, constru,co e opera,ao de
sub-projectos.
1     0 Projecto
O objectivo do FAS III e conseguir uma utiliza,co melhor, mais alargada e sustentavel de
servi,os sociais e econ6micos basicos e apoiar um sistema de governa,co onde os
governos locais e as comunidades podem   gradualmente tornar-se mutuamente
reconhecidos.
As componentes do FAS IIl cobertas pelo Quadro de Gestao Ambiental e Social sao:
Componente 1. Desenvolvimento Comunitario. Esta componente financiara iniciativas
locais para construir e restaurar infra-estruturas sociais e econ6micas com base na
pr6pria identifica,co, prioriza,co, implementa,co e manuten,co pelas comunidades de
sub-projectos de pequena escala.
Componente 11: Desenvolvimento Municipal. Esta componente apoiara os governos
municipais (incluindo administra,c6es municipais e concelhos municipais) no
desenvolvimento de capacidades e em recursos financeiros para virem a ser proficientes
na provisao de servigos sociais e econ6micos as comunidades. Uma vez proficientes, os
governos municipais assumirao gradualmente as responsabilidades de gestao do FAS e
prepararao e implementarao sub-projectos de nivel municipal com participa,co das
comunidades.
Os sub-projectos do FAS Ill enquadram-se nas seguintes grandes categorias:
* Social: Educa,co
* Social: Saude
* Social: Agua e Saneamento
10



Environmental and Social Afanagement Framework FAS 1ll Final Report
* Produtiva: Mercados, bebedouros para gado, tanques carracicidas, etc.
* Econ6mica: Estradas, pequenas pontes, etc.
2     Principais Resultados
O projecto causar6 uma melhoria das condic6es sociais em areas peri-urbanas e rurais
atrav6s da provisao de infra-estruturas como escolas, postos de saude, fontan6rios,
saneamento, etc. 0 campo de ac,co proposto para os sub-projectos considerados para o
FAS IlI pode resultar em impactos ambientais localizados, de pequena significancia, para
os quais podem (e devem) ser implementadas medidas de mitigacao durante as fases de
concep,ao, de constru,ao e de opera,co de cada sub-projecto. A elevag,o da
consci6ncia ambiental e a capacitacao para a gestao ambiental a nivel comunitario sao a
chave para a implementa,co com sucesso de medidas de gestao, especialmente durante
a fase de opera,co dos projectos (i.e. o uso e manuten,co das infra-estruturas).
Alguns dos principais impactos negativos associados aos sub-projectos do FAS III
incluem:
Edificios/ServiQos (incluindo escolas, clinicas and mercados).
*  Localizacao nao apropriada das constru,6es pode resultar em perda de
habitats naturais ou sensiveis, perda de terra produtiva e/ou, erosao.
* As actividades de constru,co podem provocar acumula,co de lixos s6lidos
originando riscos para a saude e impacto visual negativo;
*  Durante a fase de operac,o a principal preocupa,ao ser6 manter as
condi,ces de higiene em escolas, clinicas e mercados (deposicao e
tratamento de lixos s6lidos, manuten,ao da higiene, etc.). No caso das
clinicas, 6 particularmente importante a recolha e deposicao e tratamento de
lixos m6dicos.
Projectos de abastecilnento de agua de pequena escala.
*  Furos e po,os podem estar sujeitos a contaminacao de latrinas, de fossas
septicas; por isso, devem localizar-se em terrenos elevados e, pelo menos, a
30 m de potenciais fontes de contaminacao;
*  Pode ocorrer a forma,co de charcos se a drenagem das 6guas residuais nao
for adequada (especialmente nos casos de lavagem de roupas e de banhos
de imersao ou de chuveiro); os canais de drenagem devem ser rigorosamente
mantidos e limpos de detritos e lixos;
*  Furos abertos, sem bombas manuais instaladas, sao susceptiveis de ser
contaminados.
Casas de banho publicas e privadas.
De modo a nao contaminar as fontes de agua, as latrinas e fossas s6pticas devem ser
construidas em zonas mais baixas das encostas relativamente a pocos e furos e a pelo
menos 30 m de distancia das fontes de agua. Falhas na manutencao destas instala,coes
11



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS /Il. Final Report
resultam em risco para a saude, sendo necessaria, depois da constru,co, uma gestao
pr6-activa.
Estradas e Pontes.
* A abertura de areas de empr6stimo e o estabelecimento de acampamentos de
trabalhadores implicara no desmatamento do terreno; a sua localiza,co deve
ser cuidadosamente seleccionada de modo a minimizar a perturba,co dos
habitantes locais e da vegeta,co natural.
*  Drenagem inadequada pode resultar em erosao e/ou inunda,o-es.
*  0 projecto deve assegurar, depois da reabilita,co, procedimentos adequados
de manuten,co permanente das estradas .
Pr&-Avaliagdo Ambiental e Social
De modo a apoiar a avaliac,o ambiental dos sub-projectos, o Relat6rio inclui uma Ficha
de Pre-Avalia,co Ambiental e Social (FPAAS) que foi preparada para identificar impactos
ambientais logo no inicio da concep,co do projecto. Antes da aprova,co, os Promotores
Sociais e/ou Nucleos Comunitarios devem preencher a Ficha para cada sub-projecto. Se
houver mesmo que apenas uma resposta "Sim", os PS/NC devem recomendar medidas
de gestao ambiental.
A equipa provincial do FAS ira rever a ficha de pr6-avalia,co para verificar se a ficha foi
satisfatoriamente preenchida; de acordo com essa verifica,ao, recomendara a aprova,cao
(se o proponente incluiu medidas de mitiga,co adequadas no desenho do projecto) ou a
reformulag,o da proposta (se o proponente deve corrigir a proposta para incluir medidas
de mitiga,ao adequadas).
Uma vez considerado bem elaborado o sub-projecto podera entao ser aprovado.
Plano de Gestao Ambiental e Social (PGAS)
Para aprova,co, cada sub-projecto deve conter um plano de gestao ambiental e social
(PGAS) que e constituido por um leque de medidas de mitiga,co, monitoramento e
responsabilidades institucionais as quais devem ser cumpridos durante as fases de
implementa,co e opera,co dos sub-projectos de modo a gerir e monitorar os impactos
ambientais e sociais negativos.
0 PGAS:
*  Identifica potenciais impactos ambientais e sociais e medidas de mitigac,o de
modo a evitar impactos durante as fases de concep,co, constru,cao e opera,co
dos sub-projectos;
* Atribui responsabilidades e hierarquias de comunica,co para a equipa
responsavel pela gestao ambiental de sub-projectos (incluindo mitiga,cao de
impactos e monitoria).
12



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
Recomenda-se que seja dado apoio t6cnico ao FAS III atrav6s da contrata,cao de um
Assistente T6cnico (AT) a tempo parcial que ira apoiar o FAS na capacita,co e na
implementa,co do PGAS.
Programas de forma9&o e sensibilizagdo
A capacidade tecnica para identificar, gerir, e monitorar os impactos ambientais
associados com a implementa,co dos sub-projectos da FAS III e considerada baixa. A
formac,ao ambiental estara direccionada ao pessoal tecnico envolvido na identifica,a-o,
aprovac,o e monitoria dos sub-projectos e a sua contraparte representativa da
comunidade. Forma,co, consciencializa,co e/ou sensibiliza,co serao requeridos ao
pessoal t6cnico do FAS Central, FAS Provincial, Administra,6es Municipais, Promotores
Sociais e Nucleos Comunitarios.
Como grande parte dos sub-projectos ser3o concebidos e co-geridos pelos
representantes das comunidades, e de importancia vital que os representantes eleitos
recebam forma,co em avalia,co e gestao ambiental. Uma componente do programa de
forma,ao devera ser "forma,co dos formadores" (i.e. os PSs), os quais poderao entao
formar os seus membros comunitarios em gestao ambiental.
0 material de forma,co devera incluir pelo menos os seguintes componentes:
*  Estudos "de caso" de sub-projectos que podem ser usados para demonstrar
os principios basicos de gestao ambiental;
* Pratica das directrizes de avalia,co;
*  Informa,co de base sobre avalia,co ambiental;
* Revisao da legislac,o e politicas ambientais relevantes;
*  Concep,co de campanhas de consciencializa,co publicas efectivas;
* Resolu,co de conflitos;
*  Forma,co de formadores para lidar com a gestao ambiental a nivel da
comunidade.
13



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Wll. Final Report
2 INTRODUCTION
1.1 Background
The Social Action Fund (Fundo de Apoio Social or FAS) is a demand driven funding
mechanism intended to help the process of poverty alleviation and human resource
development in Angola. Specifically, the fund is intended to improve access to basic
services and to generate temporary employment for the poor in rural and peri-urban areas
through rehabilitating and re-equipping community infrastructure in health, education, and
sanitation.
An initial Social Action project (FAS I) was established in Angola in 1993. The project
included a wide range of sub-projects, which primarily focused on the reconstruction and
re-establishment of essential social services. Based on a review of FAS I and Social Fund
projects being carried out in other countries, the possibility that some types of sub-
projects were causing adverse environmental impacts was raised by World Bank staff.
A Second Social Action Program (FAS II) was implemented in late 2000. In view of the
concerns raised by the WB regarding potential environmental impacts, an Environmental
Analysis of FAS II was carried out by independent consultants prior to implementation'.
The objective of the environmental mission was to evaluate the need for environmental
assessment of FAS II and establish a mechanism to carry it out.
The FAS Ill project currently being developed will build on lessons learned from FAS I and
11. The FAS I project was successful in channelling resources and technical expertise to
improve access and quality of basic social and economic services through the provision of
community based infrastructures to poor communities but engaged less in the process of
strengthening human and social capital at the community level. FAS II had an even
stronger performance in building physical capital and started to build human and social
capital of the project partners (both at intermediary and community levels) within the
framework of the project cycle.
FAS Ill will continue along these lines, but will make a more concerted effort, both in its
design and implementation, to more closely relate investment in the three forms of capital:
physical, human and social at both community and district levels.
In FAS Ill, the investments in physical, human and social capital will be organized in a
more sharply-focused Community Driven Development (CDD) framework in order to give
greater control over decisions and resources to community groups and local institutions,
including municipal government.
FAS Ill will also operate in an environment that is clearly distinct from the greater part of
FAS I and 11. Angola is currently going through a transition from prolonged conflict to
peace. The changed circumstances enable FAS to expand its activities to previously
inaccessible areas and to adapt its menu of interventions to meet the changes of
Community Driven Development. It also enable FAS to play a more crucial role in the
transition from post conflict emergency to development.
1 Environmental Analysis, Fondo (sic) Apoio Social Project- Second Phase Govemment of Angola Prepared by
WESA, September 2000
14



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 11. Final Report
FAS IlIl identifies the environment as requiring special attention within the overall
framework of the project. It is in this context that the Environmental and Social
Management Framework has been developed for FAS IlIl in accordance with the Terms of
Reference presented in Annex I.
1.2 Project Description
The development objective of FAS IlIl is to achieve improved, expanded and sustainable
utilization of basic social and economic services and to support a governance system
where local government and communities can gradually become mutually accountable.
To reach that development objective, FAS IlIl will provide or rehabilitate social and
economic infrastructure applying a Community Driven Development (CDD) approach
which will build human and social capital within and between communities and external
support agents such as local administrations and civil society organizations.
FAS IlIl will build on two earlier operations, but will make a more concerted effort, both in
its design and implementation, to more closely relate investments in the three forms of
capital: physical, human, and social at the community and district levels. Towards this
end, Components I and 11 will provide social and economic infrastructure based on
communities' own identification, prioritization, implementation and maintenance of small
sub-projects.
Component /: Community Development Component (CDC). Applying a Community-
Driven Development approach, this component will finance local initiatives to build and
restore social and economic infrastructure based on communities own identification,
prioritisation, implementation and maintenance of small-scale sub-projects. Sub-project
investments are expected to include (i) construction, rehabilitation or provision of basic
infrastructure for health, education, water and sanitation; (ii) small-scale community and
municipal infrastructure, and (iii) environmental upgrading (waste management,
reforestation etc.). Within the CDD framework, the Community Development Component
(CDC) will give increasing control over decisions and resources to community groups and
local level institutions.
Component Il: Municipal Development Component (MDC). The MDC will contribute
towards the achievement of the twin overall objectives of the FAS IlIl program by assisting
municipal governments (including municipal administrations and municipal councils) with
capacity development and financial resources to become proficient in the provision of
social and economic services to communities. The Municipal Administration (MA) is the
decision-making body which is headed by an Administrator who is appointed by central
government. Over the implementation period of the project, municipal governments will be
expected: (i) to gradually take over various activities of the CDC sub-project cycle (i.e.
sensitisation, participatory needs assessment, approval, etc) from FAS management; and
(ii) to prepare and implement municipal level sub-projects in a phased manner according
to their own speed and implementation capacity. These municipal level projects will be
prepared based on CDC principles and based on a municipal development plan.
Each municipality participating in the program will be expected, in a phased manner
based on their own capacity and speed, to:
* Conduct community social mobilization and participatory needs assessments;
* Produce a municipal situation analysis/poverty assessment;
* Discuss this analysis within the municipal council with all the stakeholders and
prioritise its development activities;
Elaborate an annual municipal development plan and a budget; and
15



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
Appraise, cost, implement, supervise sub-projects within the municipal plan
following the CDC operational guidelines.
Based on a graduation scheme and specific eligibility criteria, the MDC will provide
municipal government: (i) financial for capacity development activities; and (ii)
"administrative grants" to carry out all activities of the CDC sub-project cycle with a view
to eventually develop, implement and monitor their municipal development plans. Those
municipalities which are advanced in their implementation capacity (to be assessed
regularly based on the municipal graduation scheme and measurable targets) will be
eligible for additional funds to finance social and economic infrastructure sub-projects,
which are expected to benefit more than one community and which will be operated and
maintained by the municipal administration. Similar economic and social infrastructure will
be funded under this component as under Component 1, however, with a focus on
strengthening the capacity of the Municipal Development Component (MDC) to provide
social and economic services to communities more efficiently.
The FAS Ill sub-projects fall under the following broad categories:
* Social: Education
*  Social: Health
*  Social: Water and Sanitation
*  Productive: Markets, water troughs for livestock, dipping tanks etc.
*  Economic: Roads, small bridges etc.
A more detailed list of the sub-projects per group (as identified by the FAS Team, October
2002) is given in Table 1 below.
16



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 11l. Final Report
Table 1. FAS IlIl Sub-Projects per Category
PROJECT           DESCRIPTION   OF THE    CODE AND DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT
CATEGORY CODE     CODE                    CATEGORY
SE-1 School
SE-2 Infant Day Care Centre
SE-3 Integrated Social Centre
SE                Social-Education        SE-4 Training centre
SE-5 Orphanage
SE-6 Environmental School
SS-1 Health Post
SS-2 Medical post
SS                Social-Health           SS-3 Health Post
SAS-1 Family Latrine
SAS-2 Water Point (Chf)
SAS-3 Public Water Stand Pipe (Font)
SAS-4 Clothes Washing Station (Lav)
SAS               Social-Water-Sanitation  SAS-5 Bath/Shower (Bal)
SAS-6 Borehole
SAS-7 Well
SAS-8 Combination Chf-Lav
SAS-9 Combination Chf-Bal
SAS-10 Combination Lav-Bal
SAS-11 Combination Chf-Bal-Lav
SAS-12 Combination Chf-Bal-Lav-Wc
SAS-13 Combination Bal-Lav-Wc
SAS-14 Combination Lav-Font
SAS-15 Combination Tanque-Chf
SAS-16 Public toilet (WC)
SAS-17 Combination WC - Lav
SAS-18 Combination WC-Bal
SAS-19 Combination Font-Bal-Lav-WC
P-1 Market
P-2 Drinking Point (for livestock)
P-3 Vaccination crush (for livestock)
P-4 Tree planting
P-5 Tree Nursery
P                 Productive              P-6 Abattoir
P-7 Dipping Tank
P-8 Bakery
E-1 Road
E-2 Footpath
E                 Economic                E-3 Bridge
E-4 Small Bridge
Chf= Water point, Bal= Bath, Lav= Washing Station, Font= Stand pipe, WC= Public Toilet
It should be noted that in 2002, 725 sub-projects were completed under FAS II. Water and
sanitation projects accounted for 50% of the projects followed by education projects
(28%). It is likely that water and sanitation will account for a significant proportion of the
projects under FAS IlIl.
17



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
1.3 Project implementation
1.3.1 Component /: Community Development Component (CDC).
The FAS is an autonomous institution, under the umbrella of the Ministry of Planning,
created by the GOA by way of Presidential Decree No. 44/94. FAS IlIl will continue to be
co-ordinated by the FAS institutions already established. FAS institutions (the FAS team)
exist at the National and Provincial levels (see organizational organograms below)
The National Directorship
Executive Director
Assistant Executive
Director
| 2 Financial Technicians ||1 Administrator Assistant|
1 Procurement Officer
.0
F     1 Evaluation and                                                      c
Monitoring technician                                  Ee
1 Training Technician                            1 Cleaner
18



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
The Provincial Directorship
Provincial Director
1 Financial Technician                         1 Secretary
.0
|  Technician, Infrastructure                       I Driver
and Procurement
1 Evaluation and Monitoring                        1 Cleaner
c     Technician                    l
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1 Social Promotion Technician
|   Training Technician
A functional organogram showing the various agencies and groups involved in
implementation is shown below:
19



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
Functional Organogram: FAS
Executive               National Coordinating Commiftee|
Directorshi p
National Coordination  Provincial                   Provincial Coordinating
Unit                  Directorship                  Committee
|  Social Promot <      Exernal Consultant
Villages       Settlements                                             e
- Community Nuclei
u      -     NGOs
a)
a)
Micro-companies
._
Socio-Professional Associations
co
coL    -     Grass Roots Community
Oroanizations
-     Women's Groups
20



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill Final Report
The sub-projects to be financed will be based on the communities own identification and
prioritisation. The first requirement for a community project to be considered by FAS III is
to hold a community general assembly in which community problems, priorities,
identification and selection of project sites are discussed with all other interested/affected
parties. These consultations identify key issues and determine that the concerns of all
parties are addressed. The consultations will be facilitated by Promotores Sociais (Social
Promoters)2 who will be recruited by FAS Ill to act as intermediaries between the
communities and the FAS Team. The Promotores Sociais will assist the NC (Nucleo
Comunitario - community project committee) by providing relevant materials and
information concerning the new projects so that they are understandable and accessible
to the groups being consulted.
The Nucleo Comunitarios are elected by their local communities and consist of people
who command the respect of their communities. In order to ensure representation of
women, it needs to be added that 25% of those elected will be positions held by women.
The roles and responsibilities of the NC include (but are not restricted) to:
-  represent their communities on all matters required of them regarding the project;
-  request by submitting an application for a project;
-  In close consultation with their communities propose suitable location for the
project site.
-  Act as liaison between FAS team, the local community and the municipal
administration during the construction of the project regarding all other matters
required including monitoring to ensure designed mitigation measures are
respected during construction and during operation of the project.
The FAS team is responsible for advising on all technical decisions required to
successfully implement the civil works activities, specifically FAS will:
-  advise the provincial committee on whether to approve for construction of a new
project in a locality;
-  approve the selection of sites for the building of new  projects based on
submissions.
1.3.2 Component HI: Municipal Development Component (MDC).
FAS Ill will assist municipal governments (including municipal administrations and
municipal councils) with capacity development and financial resources to become
proficient in the provision of social and economic services to communities. Currently the
capacity of Municipal Administrations (MAs) to identify and implement projects under FAS
Ill is considered to be weak.
In the first instance FAS will promote FAS activities through meetings with target groups
and promotional campaigns in all selected provinces. MAs participating in FAS Ill will be
identified and selected based on pre-defined criteria. The selected MAs will be fully
informed of FAS procedures and a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) will be signed
between the Participating MAs and FAS.
A capacity needs assessment of the MA to implement FAS IIl sub-projects will be carried
out. A Consultative Forum (CF) comprising the MAs, Provincial Government, NGOs,
2 The recruitment of Promotores Soclais is a new element in the organizational structure of FAS IlIl In view of the key
role of the Promotores Sociais in community mobilizabon and identification of sub-projects for funding under FAS III,
they vill need to be fully aware of the need to incorporate environmental consideratons into the planning, design,
construction and operational phases of FAS III sub-projects.
21



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
communities and private sector will be established. Based on the assessment appropriate
training will be provided for the MAs, CF and Provincial Government.
Following the establishment of the CF Consultative Forum (CF) a bank account for
administrative needs will be opened and an administrative fund will be deposited into the
account.
A municipal development plan (MDP) will be formulated for each MA. This will be based
on a municipal poverty mapping exercise and a sectoral analysis of social infrastructure
and services (health, education, water sanitation etc.). The poverty mapping and sectoral
analysis will be carried out mainly by competent NGOs. It is envisaged that the NGOs will
require some level of training in order to carry out these tasks. The MDP will be approved
by the CF.
Based on the MDP the MAs together with communities will prioritize and identify sub-
projects for financing and implementation under FAS Ill. As with Component 1 the
consultations to identify projects will be facilitated by Promotores Sociais who will provide
relevant materials and information concerning the new projects to the communities and
NCs.
Each municipality participating in the program will be appraise, cost, implement, supervise
sub-projects within the municipal plan following the FAS/CDC operational guidelines.
The roles of the FAS team, Nucleos Comunitarios and the Municipal Administrations and
Councils in the environmental and social assessment process leading towards clearance
and approval of the EA for the project activities is further described inChapter 6.
1.4 Environmental Analysis
The FAS Ill identifies the environment as requiring special attention within the overall
framework of the project. A critical assumption is that in general the project will bring
about an improvement in environmental conditions in rural and peri-urban areas because
one of its key development objectives is the provision of infrastructures such as schools,
health posts, water supply and sanitation etc. This can only be achieved through the
successful implementation of civil works programs, and hence with a prior knowledge of
the general nature of the development activity, key potential environmental impacts can
be predicted.
Where civil works proposals equate to large-scale development, environmental impact
assessment may be required. This issue cannot be resolved until more information is
available regarding the scale of civil works of certain sub-projects, e.g. road and bridge
construction. Here close liaison with Ministry of Urbanism and Environment is required to
ensure compliance with current Angolan environmental legislation. A representative of the
Ministry of Urbanism and Environment is an acting participant of the National
Coordination Committee.
It is reasonable to assume that the proposed scope of civil works envisaged for the FAS
Ill, in general, result in localised environmental impacts of minor significance for which
mitigation measures can (and must) be implemented during the design, construction and
operational phases of each sub-project. However, it would be short-sighted to assume
that these mitigation measures will automatically be adopted and implemented during the
project cycle.
At the time FAS Ill project was being prepared, the sub projects were not identified.
Consequently, specific information on numbers of sub projects, site location of sub
22



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll Final Report
projects, land requirements, selected local communities and municipalities, geophysical
land features; nature, type and use of equipment/plant, etc. was not available. Therefore
exact details and intensity of social and environmental impacts and their effective
mitigation could not be determined during project preparation. However, according to the
World Bank Operational Policy OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment requires that this
document referred to as the Environmental and Social Management Framework be
prepared during project preparation to establish the mechanism to determine and assess
future potential environmental and social impacts of sub projects that are to be identified
and cleared based on a community demand driven process described herein, and then to
set out mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures  to be taken during
implementation and operation of sub projects to eliminate adverse environmental and
social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels. OP 4.01 further
requires that the ESMF be disclosed in Angola and at the Info shop before appraisal of
this project.
The history of failure to withstand the impact of human pressure per se on existing
infrastructures and services in the peri-urban settlements surrounding Angola's major
urban centres highlights the need to adopt a cautionary approach to the provision of new
infrastructures and services as, in the absence of adequate management, history is likely
to repeat itself. In this context there exists a fundamental need to raise human awareness
to enable the people to better understand the consequences of their actions and to be
better able to manage any newly provided facilities. For example, under the high-density
living conditions that characterise the peri-urban environment, conditions are optimal for
the rapid spread of a range of water-borne transmissible diseases typically associated
with poor hygienic conditions (e.g. dysentery, diarrhoea, cholera etc) that may arise from
inadequate drainage associated with water and sanitation projects.
This example highlights the importance of conducting environmental education
campaigns in parallel with the proposed civil works program to ensure that appropriate
levels of awareness are achieved. This in fact may be the key to ensuring that the peri-
urban infrastructures essential to both human and environmental health are not allowed to
decay or are misused.
Other major environmental issues are related to the management of non-hazardous
wastes generated during the operational phases of markets, schools and clinics and the
treatment and disposal of hazardous hospital wastes in the case of clinics and health
posts.
23



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill Final Report
2. SALIENT ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES AND ISSUES IN ANGOLA
Biophysical characteristics
Angola with a land area of 1 246 700 kM2, is characterized by an extremely wide diversity
of habitats ranging from deserts in the southwest to tropical rain forests in the north. The
coastline is 1600 km in length with different biological and geological characteristics.
Angola is divided into six geomorphological areas, namely: coastal area, marginal
mountain chain (cadeia marginal de montanhas), the old tableland (planalto central),
Zaire basin and the basins of Zambeze and Cubango. The highest point in Angola is the
Moco Hill (2620m) situated in the central part of the country where the major Angolan
rivers have their origins.
The average temperature in Angola is between 25 and 330C in the rainy season and
between 18 and 22°C in the dry season also known as "cacimbo". The rainy season lasts
from September to April and the dry season from May to August. The climate is tropical
and humid in the North. The coastal region has an average annual rainfall lower than
600 mm decreasing from North to South; and the climate of the inland region ranges from
high temperatures and high levels of rain to semi-desert area.
According to SARDC, SADC & IUCN (1994) the Angolan territory is divided into five broad
ecozones:
*  Lowland Tropical Forest (rainforest), occurs in the Northeast part of the territory
and is characterised by high rainfall all year round, high evaporation, and low soil
fertility;
*  Moist Savanna, occupies around 70% of the territory and is characterised by
rainfall ranging from 500 to 1 400mm/year in the rainy season and a broad range
of soil types generally poor in nutrients;
*  Dry Savanna, occurs in the Southern part of Angola and is characterised by
unpredictable rainfall that varies between 500 and 250mm/year in the rainy
season, soils generally fertile and sparse vegetation;
*  Nama-Karoo, occurs in the Southeast part of Angola and is characterised by an
average rainfall of 100 to 400mm/year, some 60% of which falling in the rainy
season;
*  Desert, occurs in the Southeast part of Angola along a narrow coastal strip and is
characterised by very low average rainfall ranging from 10 to 85mm/year.
Within these broad ecozones at least 30 vegetation types can be distinguished (see
Figure 1)
24



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS /11 Final Report
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-                                       -I~WI
~~~~~~~~~~~~7* 
. _,.  24swB 
2Ssg  -                 k               1 'gs
22gm t6i,29g           16,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fI
4--                                                                      F 'w   E 
l4lws vvg2                                            1
0                 400 Kmr
1                               -  1t211s                    _ 21stw,
!  28                      1~~~~~~~~~                            ~~~3ts  23w m  
4E                 141ws                        24sw
if ~~~~~~~~~~~~ins2Utw
_ f                             12ms                         223 6
8 fs                            l7 rn1 8 ws                  2 7 w   
. t                             1e,,s                        2sg
4t 1s2                           s                           29s g
lOs2Os                                                       20g
Figure 1. Main vegetation types occurring in Angola. IUCN, 1992 (see text below for
description of legend)
25



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 111. Final Report
Description of vegetation types mapped in Figure 1 above:
1 F.  Evergreen species-rich fog-dependent tropical forests of low altitude. (Julbemardia
spp., Gilbertiodendrum spp., Tetraberlinia spp., Librevillea spp.). Cabinda
2F.   Semi-deciduous humid forests of low altitude. (Grossweilerodendron spp.,
Oxystigma spp., Pentaclethra spp., Piptadeniastrum spp.) NE Zaire, NW Uige.
3F.   Semi-deciduous fog-dependent humid forest largely. Disturbed. (Ficus spp.,
Albizia spp., Morus spp.) Uige, Cuanza Norte, Cuanza Sul.
4F.   Dense semi-deciduous forest on Kalahari sands. (Cryptosepalum exfoliatum,
Brachystegia, Guibourtia). Alto Zambeze.
5F.   Semi-deciduous fog-dependent high altitude forests. (Newtonia spp., Bridelia spp.,
Ficus spp.) High altitude areas in Benguela, Huambo, Huila.
6FS. Mosaic of: (1) dense humid forest; (2) tall grass savannas. (1) Piptadeniastrum
africanum, Boschia angolensis, (2) Hyparrhenia spp., Andropogon spp.,
Schyzachyrium spp.
7FW. Mosaic of: (1) dense gallery forests; (2) woodlands; (3) tall grass savannas. (1)
Xylopia spp., Piptadeniastrum spp., (2) Marquesia spp., Uapa spp., Pericopsis
spp., Diallum spp., Burkea spp. (3) Hyparrhenia spp., Andropogon spp.,
Trachypogon spp. E. Zaire, N. Uige.
8FS. Mosaic of: (1) Vegetation type 3F; and (2) tall grass savannas. (2) Hyparrhenia
spp. Panicum spp., Paspalum., Erythrina spp., Entadopsis spp., Piliostigma spp).
Uige, Cuanza Norte, Cuanza Sul.
9FST. Mosaic of: (1) ground-water dependent forests and forested swamps; (2) tall grass
savanna; (3) shrubland thickets. (1) Allanbackia spp., Entandophrama spp.,
Xylopia spp., Symphonia spp., Mytragine spp., Homalium spp., Cyperus spp.,
Raphia spp., (2) Hyparrhenia spp., Andropogon spp., Adansonia spp. (3)
Strychnos spp., Angraecum spp., sanseveria spp.) NW Zaire.
1OFS. Mosaic of: (1) semi-deciduous and deciduous forests; (2) dry savannas of low
altitude. (1) Ceiba spp., Bombax spp., Pteleopsis spp., Adansonia spp., Sterculia
spp., (2) Heteropogon spp., Hyparrhenia spp., Albizia spp., Piliostigma spp.,
Combretum spp.) NW Bengo, W Cuanza Sul.
11GS. Mosaic of: (1) imperfectly drained grasslands; (2) savannas; (3) riparian forest
clumps, on Kalahari sands. (1) Loudetia simples, Trystachia spp. Landolphia spp.,
(2) Andropogon spp., Trachyopogn) Lunda Norte, Lunda Sul.
12TS. Mosaic of: (1) shrub-thickets; (2) tall grass savannas of mid altitudes. (1&2)
Annona spp., Combretum spp., Hymenocardia spp., Hyparrhenia spp.,
Andropogon spp., Panicum spp.). SW. Cuanza Norte, W. Malange, N. Cuanza
Sul.
13TS. Mosaic of semi-arid: (1) shrub-thickets; (2) savannas; xeric grasslands of low
latitude. (1) Crossopteryx spp., Adansonia spp., Schmidtia pappophoroides,
Heteropogon spp.) SE. Zaire, N. Bengo.
26



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 111. Final Report
14TWS. Mosaic of: (1) tall shrub thicket; (2) woodland: (3) imperfectly drained savannas.
(1) Croton spp., Combretum spp., Commiphora spp., (2) Baikiaeae spp.,
Brachystegia spp., Julbernardia spp., (3) Themeda spp., Andropogon spp.,
Heteropogon spp., Hyparrhenia spp.). S. Huila.
15MS. Mosaic of: (1) degraded miombo; (2) Hyparrhenia savannas. (1) Julbemardia spp.,
Brachystegia spp., (2) Hyparrhenia spp., Andropogon spp.).
16M. Tall to medium height (10-20m) miombo woodlands of variable density on deep
sands. (Brachystegia spp., Guibourtia spp., Marquesia spp., Julbernardia spp.,
Pterocarpus spp.).
17MS. Mosaic of: (1) open miombo woodland; (2) savannas (Genus as for 16 and
Hyparrhenia savanna).
18WS. Mosaic of: (1) xeric (deciduous) woodland; and (2) xeric savannas. (1&2)
Colophospermum mopane, Terminalia spp., Commiphora., Boscia spp., Schmidtia
spp., Aristida, Enneapogon spp.).
19S.  Imperfectly  drained  Colophospermum  shrubland  on   cracking  clays.
(Colophospermum mopane, Dichrostachys spp., Acacia kirki,).
2OWS. Mosaic of: (1) low growing woodland (2) tall grass savannas. (1) Cochlospermum
spp., Terminalia spp., Piliostigma spp., Albizia spp.).
21STW. Mosaic of: (1) xeric savannas; (2) xeric shrub thickets; (3) Adansonia woodlands.
(1) Heteropogon spp., Panicum spp., Digitaria spp., Schmidtia spp., (2) Strychnos
spp., Dychrostachys spp., Combretum spp., (3) Adansonia spp., Sterculia spp.).
22GM. Mosaic of: (1) imperfectly drained grasslands; and (2) miombo woodlands. (1)
Loudetia simplex, Tratchypogon spp. Ctenium spp.).
23WG.Mosaic of: (1) baikiaea woodlands; (2) imperfectly drained grasslands. (1)
Baikiaea plurijuga, Diospyros spp. Combretum spp., Ricinodendron spp.).
24SW. Mosaic of: (1) tall grass savanna; and (2) Adansonia-Sterculia woodlands on
calcareous soils. (2) Sterculia spp., Adansonia spp., Marquesia spp., Lannea
spp.).
25SG. Mosaic of: (1) Xerophytic shrublands; (2) annual grasslands; (3) dwarf shrubland.
(1,2,3) Colophospermum spp., Acacia mellifera, Terminalia prunioides, Rhygozum
spp., Schimidtia spp., Aristida spp., Welwitschia mirabilis).
26G. Annual grasslands with patches of Welwitschia (Aristida spp., Rhynchelytrum
spp.).
27D. Active dunes
28G. Imperfectly drained grasslands on Kalahari sands. (Loudetia spp., eragrostis spp.,
Tristachya spp.).
29G. Papyrus swamps.
30G. High altitude imperfectly drained grasslands on acid shallow soils. (Loudetia spp.,
Ctenium spp., Eragrostis spp., Myrsine spp., Geigeria spp.).
27



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1l Final Report
Current and projected land use
According to the characteristics of the soil, its proximity to sources of water, biodiversity
hotspots, and other physical and chemical factors, Angolan land is currently being used
for the following purposes:
*  Protected areas: Around 6,4% of the Angolan territory is demarcated as
protected areas that are located throughout the different ecozones (except
the Lowland Tropical Forest) - see Figure 2 and Table 1 below for location
and description of the protected areas in Angola (national parks, reserves
and coutadas).
*  Livestock: Pasture land represents about 23% of the Angolan territory,
with numbers of livestock (average 1988-90) of 3,13 million cattle and 1,25
million sheep and goats.
*  Agriculture: Before 1975 Angola was "self sufficient in food production"
(Government of Angola 2002a). Due to the war, the land area used for
agriculture decreased dramatically. In 1992, for instance, only 1800 km2
(less than 1% of the territory and around 2% of the arable land) was
covered by plantations. The majority of the country's food is currently
imported.
*  Forests and woodland: occupy around 43% (CIA 2002) of the territory
and include tropical forest, moist savanna woodland and dry savanna
woodland.
*  Other: 25,6% of the Angolan territory.
28



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
N
A
))  5 <      XMILAN~~~~DO RESERVE,          )
/ _ELUNDO NSSERVE 
CHILAMAVERA
R SERVY   BUFFALO CERVE  .A0S 
UAR I (N P)
a ;s,Y,   cCl,llJ;HIrlP)  >L eL1uAtNGA(CP
-i  s\.                                     t LLU TA  W .
; I4ICU SSO(CP Pfl
0                   400 Km
Coutadas
Reserves
National Parks
Figure 2. Location of Protected Areas in Angola
29



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Il. Final Report
Table 2. Description of Protected Areas in Angola
Name                    Province                Area km2
Qui,ama N.P.            Bengo                   9,960
Cangandala N.P.         Malange                 630
Bikuar                  Huila                   7,900
Mupa N..P.              Kunene                  6,600
lona N.P.               Namibe                  15,150
Cameia N.P.             Moxico                  14,450
Namibe Reserve          Namibe                  4,450
Luando Reserve          Malange/Bie             8,280
Chimalavera Reserve     Benguela                160
Bufalo Reserve          Benguela                400
Mavinga Reserve         Kwando Kubango          5,950
Luiana Reserve          Kwando Kubango          8,400
Milando Reserve         Malange                 6,150
Controlled Hunting Areas "Coutadas)
Ambriz C.H. Area        Bengo                    1,125
Mucusso C.H. Area       Kwando Kubango          21,250
Luiana C.H. Area        Kwando Kubango          11,400
Lwengwe C.H. Area       Kwando Kubango          13,800
Longa-Mavinga C.H       Kwando Kubango          26,200
Environmental limitations
Key environmental limitations undermining development are associated with the legacy of
war. They include: the widespread presence of landmines throughout much of the
country inhibiting access to land, aside from causing human injury and death; excessive
human pressure on local natural resources in areas where massive numbers of internally
displaced people have settled - mainly around the national capital Luanda and some of
the provincial capitals; and a decimated wildlife (fauna) used as source of food and
marketable products (e.g., the slaughtering of tens of thousands of elephants for their
ivory).
Other environmental limitations hindering development and reducing quality of life include:
* Internal displacement: leading to massive overcrowding in urban and peri-urban
areas) has impacted on human health effects due to water contamination,
specifically due to the lack of adequate sanitation facilities and potable water
supplies.
*  Flooding: torrential rainfall causes cyclic flooding in the central part of the country
in the tablelands (CIA 2002).
* Desertification: In T6mbwa the desert is advancing endangering localities and
infrastructures and diminishing the soil productivity (Virgilio 2001). It is also
increasing the nutritional vulnerability of people and their rapid impoverishment
(UNDP 1999).
*  Soil degradation: a combination of soil vulnerability to erosion, unsustainable
agriculture, deforestation, as well as physical and chemical soil degradation affect
especially the central-east part of the country, impacting on the agricultural
productivity (SARDC, SADC & IUCN 1994).
30



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
* Adverse climatic conditions: associated with salinisation and uncontrolled fires
leads to loss of soil fertility and soil erosion, particularly in Benguela, Bengo,
Huambo, Huila and Luanda.
Environmental impacts caused by development
Sources of environmental impacts caused by development include:
* Dependency on biomass (charcoal 32% and firewood 15%) for cooking and
subsistence causes the destruction of the vegetation near human settlements
leading to soil erosion;
* Population concentration in specific areas of the country (especially in the coastal
and urban areas) leading to an extreme pressure on the forestry resources,
overuse of pastures and intensive agriculture techniques and subsequent
deforestation, soil erosion and degradation in some of these areas;
 Degradation of ecosystems and soil erosion as a result of the exodus of people
and inadequate urbanisation policies, particularly in coastal areas and cities with a
high population density;
 Deforestation of tropical rain forests (especially in the Congo basin) as a
consequence of the international demand for tropical timber and of the domestic
use as fuel, resulting in loss of biodiversity and vegetation;
* Diamond and oil exploitation resulting in water and soil pollution, movement of the
soil surface and deforestation leading to loss of soil productivity (Ministerio das
Pescas e Ambiente 2000a);
. Water pollution resulting from the lack of treatment of domestic and industrial
effluents that are discharged directly into the sea and into rivers, thus decreasing
water quality and drinking water availability suitability for consumption and causing
salinisation of rivers and dams (Ministerio das Pescas e Ambiente 2000a).
* The construction of new roads in ecologically sensitive areas.
31



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
3. POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT IN ANGOLA
In this section the policy, legal and institutional framework for environmental management
in Angola.
3.1 Environmental Policy
The Angolan government's environmental strategies, policy framework, and management
approaches and priorities are still being developed and will be spelled out in two major
documents - the National Environmental Management Programme (PNGA) and the
National Environmental Strategy (ENA) - both currently under formulation. Responsibility
for formulating and implementing environmental policies and programmes and for
environmental management in Angola lies with the Ministry of Urbanism and the
Environment. This includes the promotion of a policy to support environmental education
processes within the formal, informal and non-formal sectors of education.
The PNGA is seen as an important instrument for the achievement of sustainable
development. Since 1993 different stakeholders (both from the government and civil
society) have been contributing to the document which is still in draft form. The draft
PNGA emphasises the need for implementing an environmental management strategy to
protect the environment, even though most of the Angolan natural resources are still
largely intact.
The PNGA proposes the establishment of an inter-ministerial body for co-ordinating all
sectoral environmental management activities to contribute towards environmental good
practice on the "...exploitation of natural resources, improvement of the economic
environment, poverty alleviation and subsequent improvement of the quality of life and
environment".
The PNGA also recognizes and describes aspects of the (changing) broader national
context of the environment in Angola, such as: the transitions from war to peace and from
a one-party to a multi-party democratic system; the destruction of social, economic and
environmental infrastructures; the deficient education system and lack of skilled human
resources; weaknesses in the productive and private sectors; transition from a centralised
to a market economy; and the impact of landmines, illegal hunting and game cropping to
feed soldiers. This PNGA is to be implemented over the long term, based on legal
instruments to be developed and depending on available financial resources.
The National Environmental Strategy (ENA) is a guiding framework closely related to the
PNGA, aiming to identify the main environmental problems in Angola, with a view to
addressing them in order to achieve sustainable development goals. The ENA highlights
the need to integrate all economic, social, and environmental policies into the broader
Angolan policies in order to achieve sustainable development.
Aside from the environment, sustainable development goals are also furthered by the
promotion of small- and medium-scale enterprise development. An Economic and Social
Development Fund (FDES) has recently been put in place as an institutional and financial
mechanism to encourage such smaller-scale enterprise development and associated
entrepreneurial activity, as a source of employment and income generation among less
well-to-do people and as an incentive for broader-based private sector development.
32



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 111. Final Report
3.2 Legal Framework
In the context of the FAS IlIl, the key legal elements of for environmental management
are:
* The Environmental Law
* The Land Law
The Framework Environment Law
Environmental legislation in Angola was outdated until the early 1990's, when a new State
Secretariat for the Environment was established. This new Secretariat developed new
strategies and policy approaches leading to the formulation of a 'Lei de Bases do
Ambiente' (Environmental Framework Law) which was approved in 1998 by the Angolan
National Assembly.
The Environmental Law inspired and triggered complementary legislation in a number of
sectors - often new versions of outdated laws from the colonial period - which were in
accordance with the principles and provisions of the Angolan Constitution and
Environment Law (e.g. oil, fishery and mining sector).
Most of these sectoral laws include the obligation to implement environmental impact
assessments (ElAs) for new projects likely to affect the environment as well as the
'polluter pays principle'.
Although there are a number of new environmental legislations, they still need to be co-
ordinated among each other and integrated within each economic and social sector.
Generally, environmental considerations are not yet an integral part of national socio-
economic programmes, partly because "environment" has not been regarded as a
national priority. According to the Ministry of Fisheries and Environment (Ministerio das
Pescas e Ambiente 2000a), other reasons for the environment being left out of sectoral
planning and national decision-making processes are:
* Lack of solid information on the state of the environment in Angola;
* Lack of experience with integrating environmental aspects with economic and
social programmes; and
* Lack of institutional capacity for environmental management.
The aim of the Framework Environmental Law this law is to provide a legal framework for
the use and correct management of the environment and its components such that it
assures sustainable development.
The Environmental Law is applicable to all public or private activities, which may influence
the environment either directly or indirectly.
The salient features of the Law include the following:
* All projects, the activities of which have implications for communities, interfere with the
ecological equilibrium or exploit natural resources that may affect third parties, must
be subject to an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment for which Public
Consultation is mandatory (Article 10).
33



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS /i1 Final Report
*  Projects and operations that are likely to have a negative impact on the environment
are required to be subject to an Environmental Impact Assessment by independent
assessors (Article 16).
* According to Article 16 the environmental impact study must contain at least the
following:
a. A non-technical summary of the project;
b. A description of the activity to de carried out;
c. A description of the baseline environmental situation in the area of influence of
the activity;
d. A summary of comments arising from the public consultation process;
e. A prediction of the environmental and social impacts arising from the project;
f. An indication of the mitigation measures to reduce or eliminate negative
impacts;
g. An indication of systems to control and monitor the project.
*  Licensing of activities that are liable to cause significant environmental impacts shall
be required. The issuance of an environmental license shall be based upon an
environmental impact assessment (Article 17).
*  The Government will pass legislation to control the production, emission, disposal,
transport, importation and management of gaseous, liquid and solid pollutants (Article
19)
 The law also forbids, explicitly, the importation of dangerous residues or dangerous
wastes, except for that laid down in specific legislation passed by the National
Assembly (Article 19).
The Law to Use and Benefit from Land based on a Titled Concession (The Land
Law)
The Law to Use and Benefit from Land based on a Titled Concession (the "Land Law")
was passed by the National Assembly in 1992 and determines that the land is State
property and may not be sold.
However, the right to use and benefit from land may be acquired by individuals or
associations, both national and non-national based on the authorization of a formal
request made by the proponent (Article 4). Title rights to land may not be issued in rural
areas occupied by rural populations (Article 15).
In the case extinction of land rights the land reverts to the State and it is incumbent upon
the State to pay a fair and just compensation (Article 23).
The Law provides a further legal basis for demarcating areas for total protection (Article
12) and partial protection (Article 13). These provisions permit the conservation and
management of ecologically sensitive habitats such as montane habitats and riparian
vegetation.
34



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1/1. Final Report
Partial Protection Zones are considered to be areas protected for nature conservation or
protected in the interest of the State and include:
*   Interior waters, the territorial sea and the maritime exclusive economic zone;
*   The continental platform;
*   A strip of land along the maritime coast and around islands, bays and estuaries;
*   A strip of land surrounding sources of water;
*   A strip of land around the edge of dams and reservoirs;
* A strip along the territorial border:
3.3 Institutional Framework
Ministry of Urbanism and Environment (MINUA)
The responsibility for environmental protection and management has recently (January
2003) been transferred to the newly created Ministry of Urbanism and Environment3. The
National Directorate for Environment (DNA) that was housed within the ex-Ministry of
Fisheries and Environment has been transferred to the new Ministry. The DNA is headed
by a National Director and comprises three (3) departments with 5 professional staff (with
Licenciatura4 degrees or higher).
Currently, responsibility for EIA falls under the National Directorate for the Environment
which, among other tasks, is responsible for reviewing and commenting on draft EIA
reports. A Department for Environmental Licensing is in the process of being established
which will be responsible for overseeing the EIA process in Angola.
At the provincial level National Directorate for the Environment is represented by an
Environmental Sector falling under the Provincial Directorate of Agriculture, Fisheries and
the Environment. The capacity and staffing levels of the Environmental Sector varies
greatly from province to province but in most cases the capacity for environmental
management at provincial level is weak.
Financial resources to support EIA come from the limited regular budgetary allocations to
the National Directorate for Environment - which in turn originate from the regular annual
budgetary envelope of the Ministry of Urbanism and Environment, complemented by
donor support for specific projects. This means that resources for EIA are shared
amongst a range of other activities implemented by the National Directorate.
The National Directorate for Nature Conservation (DNCN) also falls under the Ministry of
Urbanism and Environment. The DNCN is responsible for the nature conservation inside
and outside of and protected areas (national parks and reserves).
An organogram showing the organizational structure of the two relevant national
directorates within the MINUA is shown below.
3Untl recently this responsibility fell under the Ministry of Fisheries and Environment
4A licenciatura degree is approximately equal to a B Sc (Hons) degree
35



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll Final Report
CORRECT THE GRAPH FORMATING
esMinister
Vice- Minister
Multi-sectonal Commission
(Consultative Body)
National Directorate 
for the Environment                                                         Natonal Di rectorate for
3   Licenciado                                                                 Nature Conserva      edon
Supervision
-and
Depar tment.      Department of         CDepartmen t of        Department of        Department of        Department
of Quality       Environmental          Environmental            Natural           Reserves and           being
3 Licenciados      Education                Licensing            Resources              Parks            estabilshed
2 mid-level        2 Licenciados            (being             5 Licenciados        4 Licenciados
staff           2 mid-level staff      established)                             1 mid-level staff
36



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
4. REVIEW OF SELECTED WORLD BANK SAFEGUARD POLICIES
In this chapter the following World Bank documents are reviewed.
*  The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Environmental
Assessment, OP 4.01 (January 1999).
*  The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Definitions.-
Annex A. OP 4.01 (January 1999)
*  The World Bank Operational Manual (Bank Procedures) - Environmental
Assessment, BP 4.01 (January 1999).
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Environmental
Management Plan. OP 4.01 - Annex C (January 1999)
*  The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Natural Habitats.
OP 4.04 (January 1999)
*  The World Bank Operational Manual (Bank Procedures) - Natural Habitats. BP
4.04 (January 1999)
*  The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Forestry. OP 4.36
(September 1993)
*  The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Involuntary
Resettlement, OP 4.12 (December2001).
*  The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Involuntary
Resettlement, OP 4.12 - Annex A (December 2001).
*  The World Bank Operational Manual (Bank Procedures) - Involuntary
Resettlement, BP 4.12 (December 2001).
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policy) - Safety of Dams, OP
4.37 (October 2001).
The purpose of this review is twofold:
1. To ensure that the present bank financed FAS Ill project concept is environmentally
sound, and
2. To assess the relevance of these documents to FAS 1ll.
4.1 Environmental Assessment (OP and BP 4.01)
The World Bank's environmental assessment operational policy establishes the fact
that some level of environmental assessment is required for all Bank financed
development projects.
EA is presented as a dynamic process dependent on the nature, scale, and potential
environmental impact of the proposed project. A typical EA will:
37



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
*  Evaluate a project's potential environmental risks and impacts in its area of
influence.
*  Examine project alternatives.
*  Identify ways of improving project selection, siting, planning, design, and
implementation by preventing, minimising, mitigating, or compensating for adverse
environmental impacts and enhancing positive impacts.
*  Include the process of mitigating and managing adverse environmental impacts
throughout project implementation.
* The Bank favours preventive measures over mitigatory or compensatory measures,
whenever feasible.
Depending on the nature and scope of EA, the following factors may need to be taken
into consideration, and in an integrated way:
* The natural environment (air, water, and land)
* Human health and safety
* Social aspects (involuntary resettlement, indigenous peoples, and cultural property)
* Transboundary and global environmental aspects
Other important factors that may require consideration include:
* Variations in project and country conditions
*  The findings of country environmental studies
*  National environmental action plans
* The country's overall policy framework, national legislation, and institutional
capabilities related to the environment and social aspects
*  Obligations of the country, pertaining to project activities, under relevant
international environmental treaties and agreements
Bank policy also requires that EA is initiated as early as possible in project processing
and is integrated closely with the economic, financial, institutional, social, and technical
analyses of a proposed project.
The commissioning of EA work is the responsibility of the borrower and the Bank
reviews the findings and recommendations of the EA to determine whether they
provide an adequate basis for processing the project for Bank financing. When the
borrower has completed or partially completed EA work prior to the Bank's involvement
in a project, the Bank reviews the EA to ensure its consistency with this policy.
OP 4.01 also determines that (a) before the Bank proceeds to project appraisal, the EA
report must be made available in a public place accessible to affected groups and local
38



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill Final Report
NGOs and must be officially submitted to the Bank; and (b) once the Bank officially
receives the report, it will make the report available to the public through its InfoShop
In commissioning the formulation of the ESMF (this document) and by making the
document available to the public, FAS will be in compliance with OP 4.01
4.2 Forestry (OP 4.36)
Bank involvement in the forestry sector aims to reduce deforestation, enhance the
environmental contribution of forested areas, promote aforestation, reduce poverty, and
encourage economic development. Here, Bank policy is unlikely to conflict with the
activities of FAS IlIl and is hence of little relevance to this EA. This policy may however
be relevant when considering the location of civil works in rural areas where indigenous
forests still predominate. It is possible that the proposed civil works may require
extractive use of forest resources. Where do you think this will be the case?
4.3 Natural Habitats (OP & BP 4.04)
The Bank supports the protection, maintenance, and rehabilitation of natural habitats
and their functions in its economic and sector work, project financing, and policy
dialogue and expects borrowers to apply, a precautionary approach to natural resource
management.
In the context of current project implementation and development the following
elements of Bank policy will apply:
1. Promotion and support to natural habitat conservation and improved land use and
the rehabilitation of degraded natural habitats.
2. The Bank does not support projects that, in the Bank's opinion, involve the
significant conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats.
3. Wherever feasible, Bank-financed projects are sited on lands already converted
(excluding any lands that in the Bank's opinion were converted in anticipation of the
project). The Bank does not support projects involving the significant conversion of
natural habitats unless there are no feasible alternatives for the project and its
siting, and comprehensive analysis demonstrates that overall benefits from the
project substantially outweigh the environmental costs. If the environmental
assessment indicates that a project would significantly convert or degrade natural
habitats, the project includes mitigation measures acceptable to the Bank. Such
mitigation measures include, as appropriate, minimizing habitat loss (e.g., strategic
habitat retention and post-development restoration) and establishing and
maintaining an ecologically similar protected area.
Because the scale of civil works envisaged under the FAS IlIl is small, their impact on
natural habitats will be negligible. However, a precautionary note is required regarding site
selection which should at always avoid areas requiring transformation of undisturbed
natural habitat. This precaution has been taken into consideration within the planning
requirements specified in the Environmental and Social Management Plan, and in the
Environmental and Social Screening Checklist. Also given the current conceptual status of
this project it is difficult to assess potential impacts on natural habitats as the locations of
civil works programs have not yet been decided upon. A clear expectation here would be
the need to take into account the views, roles, and rights of groups, including local
nongovernmental organizations and local communities affected by the project and to
39



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
involve such people in planning, designing, implementing, monitoring, and evaluating
such projects.
The environmental screening component of this environmental assessment does not
indicate the potential for significant conversion or degradation of critical or other natural
habitats.
4.4 Involuntary resettlement (OP & BP 4.12)
The nature and scale of civil works proposed under FAS IlIl means that only minimal
displacement, and the subsequent need for relocation and/or compensation, is likely to
occur as a consequence of project implementation. One of the criteria for sub-projects
to be eligible for FAS financing is that any displacement (from land, assets or access to
assets) must be agreed to voluntarily by the displaced person or entity. Subsequent
relocation and/or compensation for losses incurred by an individual or entity must be
arranged and implemented locally within communities and with the municipal
authorities. Because of this stipulation the requirements of World Bank OP 4.12
(Involuntary Resettlement) are not applicable to FAS IlIl sub-projects. The procedures
to be followed when a sub-project leads to displacement are presented in the
Resettlement Policy Framework for FAS IlIl and will be incorporated in the FAS
Operation Manual.
4.5 Safety of dams (OP & BP 4.37)
The provision of water for use during dry periods though the construction of small dams or
reservoirs (locally known as chimpacas) will not be funded under FAS IlIl.
OP & BP 4.37 are therefore not applicable to FAS ll.
4.6 Recommended approach to environmental assessment
The operational policy for EA provides a mechanism for project classification (four
categories) according to project type, sensitivity, location and scale, and the range and
magnitude of adverse environmental impacts. This classification process provides a
simple method whereby the appropriate EA approach can be determined.
Based on an analysis of available data on project type and analysis of known impacts
and preventative or mitigation measures for the civil works encompassed in the Bank
funded FAS IlIl (see chapter 5 and Annex V), we recommend that the sub-projects be
provisionally classified as a Category B project. Projects are classified as Category B if
the range of impacts is typically site-specific and are readily mitigated or preventable.
The recommended approach to EA for FAS IlIl will be to subject identified sub-projects
(for which project documents exist) to a screening process (Chapter 6) that captures
sub projects and establishes the level of environmental assessment required. If
screening establishes that formal EIA (GOA legislation or Bank requirements) is not
required project implementation will adhere to EA guidelines developed in this
document which are presented as an Environmental and Social Management Plan
(chapter 7 and Annex V).
All sub projects would be subject to the environmental and social planning, review and
clearing process contained in Chapter 6 of this ESMF
40



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
5. POTENTIAL SUB-PROJECTS ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS AND
MITIGATING MEASURES
5.1 Overview of sub projects
A list of the potential sub-projects to be supported by FAS IlIl is presented in Chapter 2.
This section describes the nature of civil works envisaged, their impacts, and possible
prevention or mitigation during planning, construction and operational phases. These
are summarized in Table form in Annex V.
At the time of writing civil works programs have not been developed beyond the
conceptual level and may change in the future. Nevertheless, the guidelines developed
are deliberately not specific to these programs but rather identify the range of
environmental impacts and mitigation measures associated with civil works at different
sectoral levels (roads and bridges, water and sanitation), construction of buildings
(schools, health posts, and markets) and other infrastructures (community centres, day
care centres).
In using these guidelines provincial level FAS technical staff and MAs (in the case of
Component II) tasked with the responsibility of civil works management should be able
to identify the range of impacts, and means of prevention or mitigation appropriate to
any proposed program of construction or rehabilitation. In other words the guidelines
are both diagnostic (identification of impacts) and prescriptive (means of prevention or
mitigation) for the lifetime of the project and beyond for small-scale civil works.
Civil works programs will encompass mainly public and semi public infrastructures
water supply and sanitation, primary schools, health posts, markets, tertiary roads and
bridges, and rural markets.
The potential for environmental impact is small and prevention or mitigation will be
dictated by the quality of environmental management at construction sites and
environmental education of the workforce. It is recommended that a relatively simple
generic environmental management plan is used to ensure that contractor activities are
in compliance with the broad principles of environmental management and that the
workforce is similarly educated in this regard. These guidelines can be written into
contractual agreements and form the basis for monitoring compliance. Hence the EMP
will become key documentation for contractors and the district and provincial level staff
involved in the management of civil works programs funded under FAS Ill. A generic
EMP appropriate to the nature and scale of civil works envisaged by the FAS Ilil is
outlined in section 7 below.
5.2 Sub-projects/Civil Works, Impacts and Mitigation
Potential Conflicts
Tensions or internal community conflicts between groups may be a negative social
impact during FAS Ill implementation. In order to mitigate this possible effect, FAS staff
and Social Promoters will be trained in facilitation and conflict resolution techniques in
development planning. In addition, a vulnerable groups assessment will be carried out,
within component 11B, in order to identify potentially marginalized groups, and design
41



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS IlI Final Report
relevant measures to address their needs and increase their participation in project
planning.
5.2.1 Buildings/Services (including schools, clinics and markets)
Many of the sub-projects will involve small-scale construction of buildings notably
primary schools, clinics and markets, housing (including ancillary facilities such as
sanitation, drainage, and access). Although the envisaged construction is small-scale
and likely to have negligible environmental impact, there are some precautionary
measures requiring consideration in the planning, construction and operational phases
of the project cycle.
Impacts and Mitigation
Planning/design Phase
In rural areas communities are typically distributed along transport routes where the
immediate environment is largely transformed and dominated by small-scale farms and
secondary vegetation but also in close proximity to untransformed habitats. In this
context civil works construction should be planned in a way that its impact on primary
vegetation (clearing the site for construction) should be avoided or minimised.
In peri-urban areas, however, the natural habitats have generally been much modified
by human activity but productive land may be a premium (for grazing or small scale
plots for maize, cassava etc.) and any loss of productive land and assets due to
location of infrastructure will constitute a negative socio-economic impact.
Other factors that also need to be considered include ground contours (steep
topography will result in erosion during construction and operational phases) water
table and seasonal patterns of inundation (to prevent water logging).
Local knowledge will be invaluable in deciding on appropriate locations for location of
sites for construction or building construction in order to avoid destruction of primary or
sensitive habitats, loss of productive land, soil erosion and water logging.
Construction Phase
There will be limited range of localised environmental impacts occurring during
construction (local pollution). Contractual obligations (of the contractor) must include
clauses regarding environmental protection focusing specifically on site clean up after
construction, waste management during construction, and possibly the rehabilitation of
land disturbed during construction.
Impacts occurring during construction phase include:
* Construction activities such as the circulation of heavy machinery and the
chopping down of trees by the workforce for fuel can result in the
destruction of intact vegetation such as shade or fruit trees, stream bank
vegetation etc. Shade trees play an important role (especially in peri-urban
areas and school play grounds) once the project is operational.
42



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
*  Localized soil and water (if a small stream is nearby) pollution from incorrect
storage and handling of diesel fuel and used engine oil may occur.
*  The accumulation of solid wastes due to construction activities and
workforce during construction creates health risks and negative aesthetic
impacts.
Associated mitigating measures include:
*  Wherever possible avoid removal of trees or other intact vegetation by
workforce or circulation of heavy machinery.
*  Carefully select storage area for diesel and ensure proper storage and handling
of fuels to prevent localized pollution of soils. Used engine oil should be
properly stored in drums and returned to the supplier for recycling or should be
disposed of in disposal in proper disposal sites.
*  Remove and dispose of solid waste in suitable sites. Non-hazardous wastes
can be disposed of in a locally dug pit (up to 1 m deep) and covered with top soil
on closure. The contractor should mount awareness campaigns for the
workforce to remove and dispose of solid wastes in the indicated sites.
*  Where possible use building debris such as broken bricks, broken cement
blocks etc for back-filling and construction of drains, soak-aways and paved
walk ways.
Operational Phase
A main concern will be to maintain hygienic conditions at schools, clinics and markets
during the operational phase, notably:
* Adequate solid waste storage/disposal (e.g. in bins/containers with lids to keep
flies away). Solid waste disposal is treated in more detail below
*  Maintenance of sanitary conditions, provision of latrines etc.
* Adequate water supply to maintain hygienic conditions
*  In the case of markets ensure proper drainage from stalls.
Again, these are essentially common sense day-to-day management practices, which
need to be promoted and reinforced through environmental awareness campaigns.
Ongoing awareness campaigns regarding waste management should accompany the
implementation of all sub-projects of the civil works program. Although no significant
impacts are envisaged (except in the case hospital waste - see below), awareness
regarding waste management is required for construction teams and local
communities. The entrenched habits of people simply discarding solid wastes
43



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill Final Report
reinforces the need for developing new initiatives to improve waste disposal and
management and should be a desired output of the awareness campaign process.
The collection and disposal of medical wastes during the operational phase poses
particular problems and this aspect is described in more detail in Annex 11.
5.2.2. Small-scale Water Supply Projects
It is envisaged that small-scale water supply projects will comprise the majority of sub-
projects under FAS Ill
Water supply projects include water points (chafariz), public water stand pipe
(fontenarios), clothes washing stations  (lavandarias), baths/showers (balnearios),
boreholes (po,os tubulares) and wells (cacimbas melhoradas).
In peri-urban areas the water supply may be linked to the piped water system (in the
case of water points, public water stand pipes, clothes washing stations and
baths/showers).
In most rural areas access to reliable hygienic water points is limited. Given this
shortage of water supply, rural populations have to dig deep holes in lowland areas, or
utilise local streams and pans where the water may not suitable for human
consumption. In these areas a common community sub-project of the III will be the
construction of permanent boreholes (up to 30m deep) and the installation of manual
pumps.
The location of these holes have not been finalised but will require environmental
assessment according to the outcome of screening (chapter 6).
Impacts and Mitigation
Planning Phase
Water supply facility per se should always be constructed on flat ground to avoid
localized water driven erosion processes, However, there a should also be a nearby
area of lower ground to receive excess drainage water.
Boreholes and wells must also be sited at a higher ground level relative to pit latrines,
septic tanks and soak-aways.
Construction Phase
Individual water supply projects are generally small-scale civic works requiring only a
small workforce. However, in the case of combined facilities (e.g., washing stands +
44



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
shower facilities + water points + latrines) the civil works are larger and the technical
guidelines pertaining to buildings (section 5.2.1 above, should be followed)
A very important factor to be incorporated in the construction of all water supply sub-
projects is the provision of adequate drainage for residual water (especially in the case
of washing stands and bath/showers). In most cases, drainage will require only earth-
constructed drainage channels although the discharge site should be well selected
(see planning phase above) and well prepared so as not to cause risk of erosion or
flooding. The latter is particularly important with respect to water borne diseases and
risks to public health.
Operational Phases
The maintenance of the water supply facility is critical to the sustainability of the project
In the operational phase there may be impacts on the functioning of the channels. The
main problems relate to routine and periodic maintenance. Drainage channels tend to
become littered with debris, plastic bags, and used as ablution facilities. Awareness
campaigns involving local community associations will need to be promoted and
supported. Local communities will also need to assume the responsibility for keeping
the drainage channels clean and free of debris.
5.2.3. Family and Public Toilets
All markets in the urban centres of rural areas are very basic, mostly constructed from
locally harvested building materials (wood and thatch). There are no toilet facilities and
vendors and customers are forced to use the surrounding area for ablutions.
Under FAS IlIl public latrine facilities (sometimes with underground septic tanks) will be
constructed for markets, schools and clinics and other places where people often
congregate (e.g., near combined washing stands + shower facilities + water points).
Family latrine toilets (with or without septic tanks) will also be constructed.
Impacts and mitigation
The projects will have a positive impact on environmental conditions and public health.
Planning Phase
Latrines should be constructed down hill from wells and boreholes and at least 30 m
from the water supply
Construction Phase
Individual toilet facilities are small-scale civic works requiring only a small workforce. In
the case of combined facilities (latrines + washing stands + shower facilities + water
points) the technical guidelines pertaining to buildings (section 5.2 1 above) should be
followed.
45



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS /i1. Final Report
Operational Phase
Potential negative during operation impacts include:
* Toilets becoming dirty and as a result people refusing to use them appropriately
* Septic tanks overflowing and creating health risk
*  People continue not to use the toilets
Maintaining latrines in public places requires proactive management. Therefore in order
to minimise these negative impacts, it is recommended that toilet management
committees are set up. The committees shall be charged with cleaning and
maintenance of the toilets and running awareness campaigns.
5.2.4 Roads and bridges
Access to rural markets and transport routes is a constraint common to the more
isolated communities in rural Angola. Tertiary roads are typically small and mostly in
isolated rural areas where population densities are low. Their main function is to
connect isolated areas of a province to the primary and secondary road network.
Consequently, it is envisaged that some community projects for the FAS Ill will be
tertiary road construction and/or rehabilitation to service such communities.
Rehabilitation of existing tertiary roads usually involves:
* Grading, resurfacing and (in some cases) widening;
* Repairing or replacing damaged minor bridges;
* Clearing drainage lines; and
* Containing erosion.
In rural areas as the construction of new road networks will inevitably require the
clearing of primary vegetation which may be of conservation value. In the case of
construction of a new road the screening checklist must be rigorously completed and
specialist opinion must be sought (e.g., construction in steep sloped areas or through
primary forestwoodland) concerning the development of environmental management
guidelines for new roads prior to the approval of such sub-projects. The use of the
screening checklist for the construction of a new road may trigger the need for an EIA
according to Angolan legislation and World Bank guidelines.
Impacts and mitigation
Planning Phase
In the case of a new road alignment, the road route that results in less or no
disturbance to human communities and natural vegetation should be selected.
The opening up of borrow pits will be required for the rehabilitation of existing roads as
well as for the construction of new roads. The borrow pits should be located areas that
cause minimum or no disturbance to human communities and natural vegetation.
During the course of the road project workers camps will set at various locations along
the alignment which will require clearing of vegetation. Again, the location of these
46



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS III Final Report
camps must be carefully selected in order areas that cause minimum disturbance to
human communities and natural vegetation.
Construction Phase
Typical impacts occurring during rehabilitation/construction of roads include:
*  Loss of agricultural land: Small-scale farms are often located close to the
existing roads which may require relocation if road widening planned under the
project. Borrow pits, access roads to the pits, storage yards etc. could further
impinge on agricultural land.
*  Land disfiguration: The opening of borrow pits and temporary access roads
may lead to landscape disfiguration and loss of natural/semi-natural habitat.
*  Erosion/Landslides: Erosion/landslide hazards are present in steep areas and
over rivers, streams and drainage lines.
.  Pollution/Hazardous material: Localized soil and water pollution from oil,
grease, fuel and asphalt may occur in storage and equipment yards. Toxic,
corrosive and ignitable materials used in the construction works may present a
hazard if not properly sited or stored.
*  Accumulation of non-hazardous solid wastes: The accumulation of solid
wastes due to construction activities and workforce during construction
creates health risks and negative aesthetic impacts.
*  Impacts of construction workers: Conflict between the local population and
construction workers may arise from increased incidence of transmissible
diseases and competition for natural resources such as firewood and wildlife
Mitigating measures for road rehabilitation/construction include:
*  Damaged or denuded landscapes (especially borrow pit areas and workers
campsites) must rehabilitated and replanted using, wherever possible,
indigenous species.
*  Potential pollutants and hazardous materials must be properly sited, stored
and handled. Used oils and lubricants should be collected and recycled or
returned to the supplier.
*  Non-hazardous solid wastes must be disposed of in pits and covered with
top soil on closure.
*  Adequate drainage must be provided in areas where substantial water run
off is expected. The drain outlets should be aligned so as to avoid cascade
effects and the receiving surface lined with stones or concrete so as to
reduce erosion. This will preclude the possibility of flooding and associated
erosion.
* Bridge construction across minor rivers and streams will probably require
the installation of flume pipes easily achieved during the dry season under
47



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
zero or low flow conditions but should nevertheless be supervised by an
engineer.
* Awareness campaigns for the workforce and local communities regarding
the risk of transmissible diseases including STDs.
Operational Phase
The project should acquire the agreement of the municipal administration or the roads
authority regarding maintenance following rehabilitation/construction.
Improved access results in increased traffic in hitherto isolated areas with a consequent
increase transmissable diseases especially STDs and AIDS. Awareness campaigns
informing local communities of the increased risk of transmissable diseases should be
mounted by NGO's and the local health services.
5.3 Treatment and Disposal of Wastes
A common feature of many of the projects is the generation of significant amounts of
non-hazardous wastes that will be generated during construction and operational
phases of civil works projects. Markets, for example, generate a significant amount of
solid waste which, left un-attended may cause human health problems. Domestic
waste, therefore, should not be left uncontained, and temporary storage should be
managed to keep out unauthorized people and animals.
5.4 Recommendations
Based on this preliminary analysis, it is assumed that the majority of FAS Ill projects
will not require mandatory EA. The only probable exception may be related to the
construction of new tertiary roads and bridges (but not the rehabilitation of existing
roads).
48



Environmental and Social Management Framework. FAS 111. Final Report
6. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PLANNING, REVIEW AND CLEARING FOR
SUB-PROJECTS
6.1 The screening framework
Screening is defined as the process that the Social Promoters will apply together with
communities to determine whether the project will result in any negative environmental
impacts in order to avoid and mitigate these impacts.
The screening exercise must be carried out for all sub projects to determine and
identify environmental impacts and associated mitigating measures that may be
required during design, construction and operational phases of sub-project
implementation.
Following identification of sub-projects the proposed sub-project is checked against a
simple Environmental and Social Screening Checklist (ESSC) that has been prepared
to assist in the environmental evaluation of sub-projects. The ESSC is presented in
Annex Ill.
The ESSC is designed to place information in the hands of reviewers so that mitigation
measures, if any, can be identified and/or that requirements for further environmental
analysis be determined at an early stage of the project cycle. The ESSC contains
information that will allow reviewers to determine potential sub project environmental
and social impacts ( e.g. if endangered or threatened species or their habitat, protected
areas or areas of relatively intact forest are likely to be present), and if further
investigation is therefore, required. It is recognized that, in practice, it may be difficult to
identify natural and/or endangered habitats and species for persons completing the
ESSC. It is recommended therefore that (a) this aspect is covered in training courses,
(b) simple field guides be prepared and provided (e.g., the location of protected areas
is presented in Chapter 2 and a preliminary list of threatened plant species for Angola
has been published5 and (c) specialist advice be provided as required.
The ESSC will also identify potential socio-economic impacts (including issues related
to land) that will require mitigation measures. For example, if use of the ESSC identifies
land acquisition needs trigger OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement, then the required
mitigation measure would be to chose an alternative land site that does not trigger this
policy or, the respective local community represented by their NC will prepare a
resettlement and compensation plan consistent with the disclosed Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) specifically prepared for FAS l1l.
Throughout the environmental and social planning, review and clearing process, the
NC will be assisted by their Social Promoters (SP's).
The provincial FAS will consult with other organizations and individuals when making a
recommendation to the PCC. These may include:
*  authorities with a statutory responsibility for environmental matters (e.g.
pollution control, nature protection, cultural heritage, water, waste etc);
*  other interested parties, including the public, to help identify any local
concerns about the project;
Golding, J (2002). Southem Africa Plant Red Data Lists. Southem Africa Botanical Diversity
Network Report No. 14.
49



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 111. Final Report
* experts such as EIA practitioners or members of academic or research
institutions (e.g., Agostinho Neto University has several highly trained
environmental scientists);
* other competent authorities who have made decisions on similar projects
A mechanism for public consultation is presented in Annex VI.
For some cases ( a minority of cases) where the adverse impacts from sub project
activities are determined by use of the checklist to be severe or challenging, the
provincial FAS Ill can require that a sub project ESIA be prepared following which the
sub project would then be modified to incorporate the required results/mitigation
measure. For example, some new tertiary road construction projects may require the
carrying out of an ESIA.
Generic Terms of Reference for an ESIA for the construction of new tertiary roads and
bridges are presented in Annex IV to cover this eventuality. These generic Terms of
Reference could also be adapted in the event of screening exercise triggering an EIA
for other sub-projects although this is considered unlikely.
6.2 Completing of the Checklist
Completion and interpretation of environmental and social screening checklists is the
initial step towards establishing the level of environmental management required for a
sub-project.
6.2.1 The Process funded under Component 1: Community Development
Component
It is recommended that the FAS Provincial Team (specifically the Evaluation and
Monitoring Technician) be overall responsible for ensuring that screening exercise is
fully integrated into the approval process for sub-projects. The screening form is to be
completed by the NCs with assistance of the Social Promoters.
The screening checklist prompts a list of yes/no answers in relation to a series of
questions on the location of the project and possible negative impacts during
construction and operational phases. The checklist culminates in a decision whether
further advice is required, and if so what type of assistance and who is responsible. For
each "yes" answer then the SP/NC will, with the aid of the ESMP, identify and describe
impacts and associated mitigation measures. The management measures can be
restricted to a brief description on the environmental or social impact(s), the mitigating
measure(s) to be employed and who will be responsible for ensuring implementation of
the mitigating measure(s). The SP/NC will modify aspects of the standard design as
required to incorporate the required mitigation measures.
The process of screening potential sub-projects is set out in simple terms below:
50



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
No 'yes'
Identification        Screening by
of sub-project     ,  SP and/or MC
SPs /Communities
identify mitigation
For each    measures and
'yes'       integrate into
answer      project design
The completed screening checklist with environmental management measures
incorporated into the project design is submitted (together with other application forms)
to the FAS Provincial Offices. Other application forms will include a copy of the
Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP), with Planning Phase signature A
filled by the NC/SP and a maintenance plan taking into account the actions required in
the Operational Phase of the ESMP. Wherever possible the provincial FAS Team
should nominate an individual or agency to review the completed screening form (this
should be somebody with some experience in environmental management and if a
competent person is available e.g., within the Provincial Directorate for Agriculture,
Fisheries and the Environment, he/she should be nominated). The reviewer will
complete Section E of the Screening Checklist to determine whether the screening
checklist has been completed satisfactorily and can be put on the PCC agenda for
consideration (recommended action 1 or 2, of Section E). In the case of adequate
environmental management measures not being provided in the application form, the
reviewer should indicate the recommended course of action (3 or 4 in Section E). The
reviewer will also ensure that the required actions of the ESMP Planning Phase have
been fulfilled. If so, the reviewer will complete Signature B of the ESMP Planning
Phase. If signature A is missing or actions have not been taken, the reviewer should
indicate the recommended course of action (3 or 4 in ESSC Section E).
Provided that all the other application forms are in order the PCC may then give
approval for the sub-project.
6.2.2 The Process funded under Component 2: Municipal Development
Component
The process for identification, screening, appraisal and approval of sub-projects under
Component 2 (Municipal Development Component, MDC) is essentially the same as
that for the Component 1. However the MAs, will only become involved in this process
once they have the necessary skills and capacity to do so. This will be achieved
through a series of phased actions in which the training of MAs in environmental
management is a key component. These phased actions to develop MA capacity will
culminate in the elaboration of municipal development plan which will form the basis for
identifying sub-projects for funding under FAS l1l. Thereafter, MA will be responsible for
identifying sub-projects together with the communities with the assistance of the Social
Promoters. The NCs/SPs will complete the screening checklist as under Component 1
above and the completed screening checklist, with environmental management
51



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
measures incorporated into the project design, will be submitted (together with other
application forms) to the MA. The sub-project application are sent to:
(a) Provincial Government for information;
(b) Provincial FAS for review;
(c) The Consultative Forum for approval.
The Consultative Forum would then use the same procedure as the Provision FAS, for
component 1 sub projects as described in 6.2.1 above.
6.3 Institutional Arrangement for Planning, Review and Clearing of Sub-Projects
A number of bodies will be involved in the screening, review and approval of sub-
projects for Components 1 (CDC) and 2 (MDC). These bodies, and their respective
roles, are listed below:
Component 1: Community Development Component
Nucleos Comunitarios (NCs): The NCs, with the assistance of the Social Promoters
(SPs) will complete the ESCS (Sections A to D). If required they will describe
mitigating measures to reduce/eliminate any negative environmental and social
impacts and incorporate these into project design.
Social Promoters (SPs): The SPs will assist the communities to complete the ESSC for
submission to FAS Provincial for appraisal.
Provincial FAS: The Provincial FAS team will review the ESSC and make the
appropriate recommendations to the PCC as indicated in Section E of the ESSC.
Provincial Directorate of Agriculture, Fisheries and the Environment: If a competent
environmental scientist is in post in this directorate the Provincial FAS may request
assistance to review the ESSC and to make recommendations as to the appropriate
course of action.
Provincial Co-ordinating Committee (PCC): The PCC will give final approval for the
sub-project provided all documentation has been satisfactorily completed and signed
off (including the completed and signed ESSC with recommended environmental
management measures).
Component 2. Municipal Development Component.
Nucleas Comunitarios and Social Promoters: The NCs and SPs will fulfil the same role
under the MDC as under Component 1 (CDC).
Municipal Administrations: The MA will receive the completed ESSC for submission to
the Provincial Government for information, the Provincial FAS for review and the
Consultative Forum for approval.
Provincial Government: The Provincial Government will be informed of the proposed to
confirm that it fits into provincial development plans.
52



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
Provincial FAS: Provincial FAS will review the ESSC and make final recommendations
regarding the environmental management measures.
The Consultative Forum: The Consultative Forum will give final approval for the sub-
project.
Provincial Directorate for Agriculture Fisheries and the Environment: As per
Component 1 above.
53



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
7. SUB-PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
7.1 Background
This ESMF contains the requirements for an ESMP for sub projects and for the FAS Ill
project as a whole.
Sub project ESMP's are part of the completed checklists which would be implemented
by sub project promoters( e.g. NC's ) whereas the ESMP for the FAS Ill project will be
implemented as part of the annual technical audit which will be carried out by FAS Ill
management.
For approval, each sub project proposal must contain an ESMP that will consist of a set
of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken during implementation
and operations to manage and monitor adverse environmental and social impacts.
The ESMP comprises a range of recommendations, which collectively act as the basis
for environmental and social management (impact mitigation) and monitoring during
the construction and operational phases of a sub-project. The majority of potential
impacts described per sub-project in Chapter 5 are small-scale for which mitigation
measures can easily be applied. The identification of potential impacts and associated
mitigating measures described in Chapter 5 serves as the foundation for the ESMP
presented in Annex IV.
The ESMP also identifies responsibilities to effectively manage environmental impacts
during the sub-project cycle.
The ESMP includes:
* A description of potential environmental and social impacts and of the mitigation
measures to avoid impacts during sub-project planning, construction and
operational phases;
* A description of environmental and social monitoring during the implementation
of the sub projects, in order to measure the success of the mitigation
measures..
* A description of responsibilities and lines of communication staff responsible for
environmental management of sub-projects including impact mitigation and
monitoring for compliance);
7.2 Integrating the Environmental and Social Management Plan into Sub-project
Cycle
The Environmental and Social Management Plan for each sub-project is given in
Annex V. The responsibility for implementing the mitigation measures (the Actor) or
monitoring (the Monitor) per sub-project is indicated in the Annex IV.
By following the procedures outlined below the required environmental management
actions indicated in the ESMP will be taken into account during all phases of the
Project.
Preparation
54



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 111. Final Report
The required actions outlined in the Environmental and Social Management Plan
(ESMP) per sub-project during project planning, particularly concerning the proposed
site location, will be reflected by a member of the NC signing Signature A in the
Planning phase of the ESMP.
The preparation of a maintenance plan will also address plans for the mitigation
measures identified in the operational phase of the relevant ESMP. If the sub-project is
a clinic or school the role respective provincial directorates specified in the
maintenance plan.
The completed Planning Phase of the ESMP and maintenance plan must be submitted,
together with other application forms, to the FAS Provincial Office for review. If
resettlement is required by the project location, a resettlement and compensation plan
will be prepared by the NC consistent with the provisions of the disclosed RPF.
The reviewer will also guarantee that the required actions described in the ESMP have
been identified or carried out, as reflected in the maintenance plan and in Signature A
of the ESMP. If the ESMP mitigation measures have been satisfactorily planned or
completed, the reviewer will fill Signature B of the ESMP Planning Phase. If the
maintenance plan includes plans to address the required actions from the ESMP
Operational Phase, it will be approved.
If either the ESMP or the maintenance plans do not meet the stated environmental and
social management guidelines, the subproject proposal must be redesigned before
being granted approval. Those projects involving resettlement, must include a legal
agreement demonstrating that any displacement6 resultant to the subproject site has
been met with informed consent from the land user.
Upon satisfactory appraisal by the FAS provincial staff, the ESMP will be included in
the documentation given to the Coordination Committee for final approval. Approval will
not be granted if the EMSP required actions for the Planning Phase have not been met,
as reflected in the completed Signatures A & B of the Planning Phase. Approval will
also not be granted in cases where involuntary resettlement issues arise that are not
mitigated consistent with provisions of the disclosed RPF.
Implementation
FAS will inform the contracted agent (construction company) of their responsibility
regarding environmental management measures. The contract agreement signed by
the construction contractor must either have the required actions from the ESMP
Construction Phase written into or attached to the terms of the project contract. This
will be reflected in the contractor signing Signature A in the ESMP Construction Phase.
The ESMP should also be included in the collection of implementation plans and work
schedules given to NCs to inform their supervision during project construction. If a
supervisor or fiscal is hired to manage the construction process, he/she must also
ensure contractor compliance with the Construction Phase of the ESMP. This will be
reflected by the fiscal/supervisor completing Signature B of the ESMP Construction
phase.
6Displacement refers to a land user physically moving from one plot of land to another, and loss of
access to assets located on any portion of the land plot
55



Environmental and Social Management Framework. FAS 1ll. Final Report
Supervision
The NCs will include in the Monthly Progress Report sent to FAS, relevant issues
regarding the required actions in the Construction Phase of the ESMP. In turn, the
monthly supervisory visit from FAS provincial staff or the relevant municipal
administrator will ensure that the contractor is meeting their signed ESMP obligations.
If these conditions have been satisfactorily met during and upon completion of
construction activities, the FAS staff and/or municipal administrator will sign Signature
B of the Construction Phase of the ESMP.
Transfer of Operation
Upon construction completion, the Final Completion Report will include a copy of the
ESMP with both Signature A and B of the Construction Phase completed. The NCs and
community will thus be reminded of their responsibilities in project maintenance as
outlined in the Operational Phase of the ESMP. As a result, the project maintenance
plan will include any relevant discussion of planned management activities to ensure
that the requested ESMP mitigation measures will be carried out during project
operation. If a caretaker is hired for the subproject, he/she must sign (or initial)
Signature A of the Operational Phase of the ESMP, reflecting his/her informed
obligation to carry out these activities within his/her job function. If no caretaker is hired,
the NC must ensure that actions to carry out the ESMP operational mitigation
measures will be completed, as described in the project maintenance plan. Agreement
to comply with these measures will be reflected by a member of the NC signing
Signature A of the ESMP Operational Phase.
If the sub-project is a clinic or school the respective provincial directorates should sign
Signature A of the ESMP Operational Phase.
7.3 Institutional Arrangement for Implementing the ESMP
The roles and responsibilities for implementing the ESMP environmental and social
mitigation measures and for monitoring are listed in Table 3.
Table 3. Roles for mitigation measures and/or monitoring
Agency                 Role/Responsibilit
Implementation   Monitoring
FAS Provincial                           X
Social Promoters                         X
Nucleos Comunitarios   X                X
Hired caretakers       X                X
Contractors            X                 X
Consulting Engineers                     X
Technical Adviser                        X
FAS (Provincial Level)
Provincial FAS will:
56



Environmental and Social Management Framework. FAS 11l Final Report
* review and approve ESMP to ensure that environmental management
measures are an integral part of the sub-project design;
* Monitor the implementation of the environmental management (mitigation)
measures.
Social Promoters
* Assist the NCs to complete the ESMPs
* Provide advice to the NCs on the implementation of mitigating measures
and monitoring
Nucleos Comunitarios
* Complete the ESMP
* Implement mitigating measures assigned to the NCs
. Conduct on-site monitoring related to the implementation of mitigating
measures assigned to other individuals/agencies
Hired Caretakers
In some cases caretakers may be hired to manage/maintain sub-projects on
completion. Caretakers will also be responsible for environmental management such
as maintenance and clearing of drainage channels, public latrines etc.
Contractors
The contractor must:
Adhere to the required actions outlined in the ESMP and which form part of the contact;
 Be open to periodic environmental compliance audits by FAS or their
representative and provide the necessary information for such purposes.
* In addition, the contractor shall implement their own audits to ensure
conformance with the requirements of the ESMP.
Consulting Engineers (Fiscais)
To monitor compliance by the Contractor with regards to required
environmental actions as per the ESMP including solid waste removal,
proper construction of drainage channels, septic tanks etc,
Technical Adviser (see 7.4 below)
The Technical Adviser will provide guidance and assistance on all aspects of
environmental management and monitoring.
57



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
7.4 Provision of Technical Assistance
It is recommended that technical assistance be provided to FAS IIl through the
contracting of a "stand- by" Technical Advisor (TA) with at least a Masters degree in
environmental engineering and ten years experience in environmental management
especially in developing countries. The TA will assist FAS with the on-going training of
the staff through "on-the job" training. The TA will identify other suitable training
courses for key staff. The TA will also provide assistance to FAS to implement the
ESMP.
The tasks of the TA include:
*  Provide technical advice to FAS and participating agencies on all technical
issues related to natural resources and environmental management including
impacts on soil, surface water, groundwater, natural vegetation and fauna,
sourcing of materials used in construction, human health and provision of
technical advice on mitigation measures for sub-projects;
*  Lead the delivery of environmental training and sensitisation programmes for
FAS;
*  Carry out review of completed sub-projects independently in order to identify
improvements in mitigation measures and the screening checklists;
*  Identify suitable consultants to be used on all issues of natural resources and
environmental management;
*  Provide an annual environmental report to FAS and the WB in conjunction with
procurement audit.
Allocated time: 4 months per year.
58



Environmental and Social Management Framework- FAS 1ll Final Report
8. CAPACITY OF NATIONAL, PROVINCIAL, LOCAL AND COMMUNITY
ADMINISTRATIONS TO ADDRESS ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
Technical capacity to identify, manage, and monitor the environmental impacts
associated with the implementation of the FAS Ill sub-projects is considered to be low.
Nevertheless, this generalised lack of capacity should not represent a significant
obstacle in defining training needs to build the short/medium term capacity to
undertake the environmental assessment required for the FAS III civil works program
as the type of knowledge required to tackle environmental problems in general is of a
practical (common sense) rather than an academic nature.
It is envisaged that environmental training will be directed towards technical personnel
who are involved with identification, approval and monitoring of sub-projects and their
community representative counterparts. Three levels of training are envisaged:
(i)   In-depth training to a level that allows trainees to go on to train others,
including technical procedures where relevant;
(ii)  Sensitisation, in which the trainees become familiar with the issues to a
sufficient extent that it allows them to demand their precise requirements for
further technical assistance; and
(iii)  Awareness-raising in which the participants acknowledge the significance or
relevance of the issues, but are not required to have technical or in-depth
knowledge of the issues
Training, sensitisation and awareness-raising will be required at the levels of FAS
Central, FAS Provincial, Municipal Administration, Social Promoters and Nucleo
Comunitarios.
The training requirements per group is given in Table 4 below
Table 4. Main training areas per group
0
.0    .5      ifl
Training area              .        ,                  .a
0
Screening~~ ~ ~ ofU imatsS T. 
0    .~~~~.- ~
C.)   a.   uE.SZ 
U.   IL.    2       U)     ZC.)
Basic ecological linkages  A    A     A        S     S
Screening of impacts      S     T     T        T     T
Identification of impacts and  A  S   S        T     T
mitigating measures
Training for trainers                          T
EIA Legislation           A     T     T        A     S
A=Awareness; S=Sensitization and T=Training
A core feature of FAS III is that many of sub-projects will be designed and co-managed
by community representatives. Of critical importance to the success of this process is
that elected representatives have competence in environmental screening and
59



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
management awareness. It is recommended that community representatives function
as counterparts to the SPs who have undergone EA training. A component of the
training program should be the training of trainers (i.e., the SPs) who can then
workshop the environmental assessment process at local community level.
For FAS Provincial, MAs and SPs it is envisaged that the most profitable strategy for
training would be to run workshops in the Provinces (by grouping the provinces into
north, central and south groups). The training materials developed for the workshop
should include at least the following components:
*  Case studies (where possible developed by the workshop participants)
based on the scope of work of the civil works program that can be used to
demonstrate the basic principles of EA;
* Workshopping the screening guidelines developed and presented in section
6 will be an important training component;
* An overview   of environmental assessment (scoping, screening, EA
methodologies, impacts and mitigation measures, public participation,
monitoring and evaluation);
*  Review of relevant environmental legislation and World Bank Safeguard
policies;
*  Designing effective public awareness campaigns;
* Training of trainers to work with EA at community-level.
*  Conflict resolution
*  FAS Environmental and Social Management procedures and tools
The training of trainers should be developed as a distinct separate component and
here it is recommended that as part of the consultation services the consultants should
develop and workshop training materials specific to community level environmental
education.
60



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 111. Final Report
9. MONITORING PLAN
The Monitoring Plan should address two types of monitoring:
1. Routine monitoring of sub-projects to ensure that they meet the environmental
standards as defined in sub-project ESMPs.
2. Regular audit of the overarching ESMF.
Routine Monitoring
Environmental and social monitoring is required during the construction and operational
phase of the sub-projects in order to measure the success of the mitigation measures.
The monitoring plan is specifically addresses:
* The need for on site construction supervision.
*  The need for periodic inspection of facilities post construction stage
The monitoring measures to be carried out with linkages to the potential adverse
impacts are contained Chapter 7 and Annex V. The monitoring plan consists of a set of
mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken during implementation
and operations to manage adverse environmental and social impacts as described in
Chapter 7.
Regular audit of the overarching ESMF
Annual audit of the overarching ESMF based on a sample of implemented sub
projects. Here the purpose would be to assess compliance and lessons learned so as
to improve future environmental and social performance. The audit should consider the
effectiveness of the sub project preparation (design), screening, approval and
supervision processes.
Annual audits provide feedback on past performance of the whole project cycle from
design and approval, through construction to operation. Here lessons learned
regarding what does or does not work can be used to refine and improve routine
monitoring protocols for future sub projects and also to identify any further training
requirements for the personnel involved.
The following indicators could I be used to measure environmental performance:
*  Number of people who have received environmental training. Training courses
should allow evaluation of the course by trainee response to questionnaires.
*  Numbers of women trained.
*  Number of women elected to NCs.
*  Number of sub projects screened.
*  Number of sub projects reviewed , cleared and approved compared to those not
approved.
*  How has the adoption of the ESMF requirements impacting the environmental
health and bio-physical state of the communities using/affected by the sub
projects.
*  Degree of environmental degradation or otherwise (water logging, erosion,
siltation etc.) arising from the sub-project
61



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 111 Final Report
 How many sup-projects have effective maintenance program (functioning
toilets, operational septic tank and drainage channels, adequate waste disposal
etc.)
* Number of new built schools implementing a maintenance and operating
program .
* Overall assessment of the screening process and ESMP identified in this ESMF
working well.
An evaluation of these performance indicators should identify what changes, if any
changes are required to improve the performance of the ESMF and the RPF
implementation.
The regular monitoring of the overall ESMF should take place on an annual basis.
FAS Central should be responsible co-ordinating the environmental review which may
form part of a wider review/audit of FAS 111.
Independent consultants should form part of the review team.
The National Directorate for the Environment (Ministry for Urbanism and the
Environment) should also participate in the environmental review.
62



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill Final Report
10. PUBLIC CONSULTATION PLAN
Annex VI provides a public consultation plan that may be followed during the
environmental and social screening process as well as during the planning and
implementation phases of the sub-project. The plan is linked to a broader
communication plan that provides information for target groups in order for them to
know about the project and, consequently, to participate in environmental decision
making if required. Women and vulnerable groups should be particularly encouraged
to participate in consultations and project activities.
63



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
11. COSTS
1. Training
The training workshop for Environmental Management (trainers for trainers) has been
budgeted for under the overall FAS IlIl budget.
The costs cover:
* The development of TOR forTraining an environmental awareness, (FAS with
consultant)
* Development of training materials (consultant in conjunction with FAS)
* Consultant fees to deliver training workshop
* Evaluation of training (FAS with consultant)
* Costs of accommodation, food and transport for 24 participants
The total cost is estimated at US$70,000
3. Monitoring
Costs of implementing the overall FAS IlIl ESMP is included in the budget for the
implementation of the annual technical audit. The costs for implementing the sub
project ESMP's will be included in the sub project implementing/operating budgets.
3. Technical Assistance
On call technical assistance is budgeted for a four-month period at US$6000 per
month.
Total Annual Cost: US$ 24 000
4. Environmental and Social Impact
The cost to carry out a detailed ESIA trigged by a screening process covers the fees of
three consultants (an ecologist, a socio-economist and an environmental engineer)
each for 15 days at US$500.
US$ Dollars
Consultancy Fees (3 Regional Consultants x 15 days x US$450  20 250
Accommodation (3 x 15 x US$120)                              5 400
Subsistence (3 x 15 x US$85)                                 3 825
Regional Travel                                              2 400
Total                                                       31 875
64



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Il. Final Report
12. BIBLIOGRAPHY
Golding, J (2002). Southern Africa Plant Red Data Lists. Southern Africa Botanical
Diversity Network Report No. 14
IUCN.1992. Angola Environmental Status Quo Report. Harare, Zimbabwe
Ministerio das Pescas e Ambiente. 1999. Lei de Bases do Ambiente e Convenq6es.
Minist6rio das Pescas e Ambiente. Luanda: Angola.Ministerio das Pescas e Ambiente.
2000a. National Environmental Management Programme (PNGA) - Draft Document.
Ministerio das Pescas e Ambiente. 2000b. National Environmental Strategy (ENA) -
Draft Document.
SARDC, SADC & IUCN. 1994. The State of the Environment in Southem Africa.
SARDC. Harare: Zimbabwe.
65



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
ANNEXES
ANNEX I
Terms of Reference
ANGOLA SOCIAL ACTION FUND III
Environmental and Social Management Framework
Introduction
Since the signing of a formal ceasefire agreement in April 2002, Angola is struggling to
complete a complex triple transition: from war to peace, from centralized to democratic
government, and from a state-controlled to a market economy. The peace agreement
provides Angola with a unique opportunity to achieve a permanent reduction in poverty.
The World Bank provides technical and financial support to the Government of Angola
(GOA) to plan and implement the Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy. The framework
for Bank/GOA cooperation is described in the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS)
which includes, among others, support for the expansion of service delivery to war-
affected and other vulnerable groups. 44% of the initial IDA allocation for the TSS
lending program will be channeled through the Social Action Fund IIl (FAS 111). FAS IIl
can be considered the cornerstone of a limited and selective lending program that aims
at promoting national reconciliation, improving public expenditure management, and
expanding domestic capacity for service delivery.
The Project
The development objective is to achieve improved, expanded and sustainable
utilization of basic social and economic services and to support a governance system
where local government and communities can gradually become mutually accountable.
To reach that development objective, FAS Ill will provide or rehabilitate social and
economic infrastructure applying a Community Driven Development (CDD) approach
which will build human and social capital within and between communities and external
support agents such as local administrations and civil society organizations.
FAS Ill will build on two earlier operations, but will make a more concerted effort, both
in its design and implementation, to more closely relate investments in the three forms
of capital: physical, human, and social at the community and district levels. Towards
this end, components I and 11 will provide social and economic infrastructure based on
communities' own identification, prioritization, implementation and maintenance of
small sub-projects.
Component /: Sub-project investments are expected to include (i) construction,
rehabilitation or provision of basic infrastructure for health, education, water and
sanitation; (ii) small-scale community and municipal infrastructure, and (iii)
environmental upgrading (waste management, reforestation etc.). Within the CDD
framework, the Community Development Fund (CDF) will give increasing control over
decisions and resources to community groups and local level institutions.
66



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS /Il. Final Report
Component II: Similar economic and social infrastructure will be funded under this
component as under component 1, however, with a focus on strengthening the capacity
of the Municipal Development Fund (MDF) to provide social and economic services to
communities more efficiently.
Purpose of the assignment
To enable the CDF and the MDF - and others as required - to assess and mitigate the
potential environmental and social impacts of future sub-projects effectively, an
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) will be prepared.
The ESMF represents a screening process that will facilitate the early identification of
potential impacts related to site selection, soil erosion, soil and water pollution, waste
management as well as operation and maintenance of sub-projects. It will outline a
process for assigning environmental categories to the proposed sub-projects as well as
institutional arrangements and time horizons for the implementation of mitigation
measures, and the monitoring of the implementation of these mitigation measures. The
specific tasks are outlined below.
Scope of work
1. Identify, assess and quantify - to the extent possible - the potential
environmental and social impacts and risks in the sub-project's intervention
zone.
2. Outline (a) an environmental and social screening form to assist in determining
potential impacts of the sub-project; (b) a process for assigning environmental
categories to sub-projects; (c) an environmental and social checklist combined
with relevant mitigation measures to be applied to the various sub-projects not
requiring a separate environmental analysis (EA); (d) an EA process for sub-
projects requiring a separate EA (i.e. preparation of terms of reference,
selection of consultants to carry out the EA, public consultations); (e)
institutional arrangements for review and clearance of screening results and EA
reports, as well as for the implementation of mitigation measures, monitoring,
and evaluation of their implementation.
3. Assess the potential environmental and social impacts of wastes during
construction activities and make appropriate recommendations.
4. As appropriate, propose measures to deal with liquid and solid waste during
operation and maintenance of the sub-projects, particularly in regard to water
supply and sanitation, and health care facilities. As regards medical waste,
interim medical waste management measures at health care facilities should be
proposed, keeping in mind that Angola will prepare a national medical waste
management plan in the near future.
5. Develop a public consultation plan which would be followed during the
environmental and social screening process as well as during the planning
stage of the sub-project at the local level.
6. Assess the government's and the implementing agency's capacity to manage
the project's potential environmental and social issues, and propose - as
appropriate - measures to reinforce their capacity in this regard, taking into
67



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
consideration the relevant environmental policies, legal, regulatory and
administrative frameworks of Angola.
7. Review the World Bank's safeguard policies and make recommendations
regarding their applicability to FAS l1l. Recommendations pertaining to the
treatment of applicable safeguard policies in the context of the sub-project
should be incorporated into the environmental checklist referred to above.
8. Prepare an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for FAS ll. This plan
should include - as appropriate - institutional arrangements, time horizons and
cost estimates for the implementation of mitigation measures and monitoring of
their implementation, EA training provisions, and public consultations. The EMP
will be incorporated into the Project Implementation Manual.
Reporting
The consultant(s) will prepare the ESMF as outlined in the terms of reference. He/she
will submit the first draft by April 10, 2003, to the Government of Angola and the World
Bank for review and comments. The final document will include the comments received
from the Government as well as from the Bank. Subsequently, the Government and the
Bank will issue their approval of the document. Approval of the document will take
place prior to appraisal.
Required skills
This assignment can be carried out by an Environmental Specialist and/or a group of
consultants with mixed skills.
Disclosure
Consistent with the Bank's Disclosure Policy, the ESMF will have to be disclosed prior
to appraisal. Disclosure will take place in Angola as well as in the Bank's Infoshop.
Thus, the Government of Angola will disclose the document in-country while forwarding
a letter to the Bank, authorizing the latter to disclose the document in the Bank's
Infoshop. These steps will have to be completed prior to appraisal and will be the
responsibility of the Borrower and the Bank.
April 2, 2003
68



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill Final Report
ANNEX 11
DISPOSAL AND TREATMENT OF MEDICAL WASTES
Hospital waste is one of the most problematic types of waste for waste disposal
especially in developing countries.
Waste generated within hospital premises has three main components: common
wastes, for example, administrative office waste and kitchen waste; pathogenic or
infectious wastes (including sharps); and hazardous wastes (mainly those originating in
the laboratories containing toxic substances). The quantity of the first type of waste
tends to be much larger than the second and third types.
Ideally, these three types of waste should be separated. However, separation is
possible only when there is significant management commitment, in-depth and
continuous training of personnel, and permanent supervision to ensure that the
prescribed practices are being followed. Otherwise, there is always a risk that
infectious and hazardous materials will enter the common waste stream.
Sound practices for managing medical wastes include the following:
Source separation within the hospital. Source separation involves isolation of infectious
and hazardous wastes from common wastes through color coding of bags or
containers. This requires a high level of commitment and thorough management
monitoring.
Treatment of infectious waste through incineration. An incinerator is difficult and
expensive to maintain. However a centralized incinerator could be maintained at a
main hospital that provides services to clinics in one region. In addition, simple low cost
incinerators have recently been developed for the safe disposal of hazardous medical
wastes in developing countries and remote rural areas. These do not require a power
source and are fueled by wood.
Disposal in a dedicated hazardous waste land-fill site. Currently this is not an option in
Angola as no hazardous waste sites are in operation. However, Angola intends to
prepare a national medical waste management plan and this option may become
available in the future but probably not during FAS Ill.
Proper disposal of hospital wastes in the absence of incineration and landfill sites. In
most urban and rural areas of Angola none of the above treatment systems are widely
available, so final disposal of infectious and hazardous components of the wastes is
necessary. In the absence of landfills specifically designed to receive special wastes,
hospital wastes need to go to the local landfill or dump. In this case, close supervision
of the disposal process is critical in order to avoid contact with waste pickers. Final
disposal should preferably be done in a specially designated cell, which should be
covered with a layer of lime and at least 50 cm of soil. When no other alternative is
available for final disposal, hospital wastes may be disposed of jointly with regular
wastes. In this case, however, hospital wastes should be covered immediately by a
meter thickness of ordinary MSW and always be placed more than two meters from the
edge of the deposited waste.
Transport of waste. Waste must be transported away from the areas of generation at
regular intervals or every morning. Transport of waste from areas of generation must
69



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
be done only by designated staff who should be fully aware of the hazards of the
material they handle and of protective measures to be taken. They should be provided
with adequate personal protective equipment and should be instructed to report any
injury to the medical authorities.
Additional measures that may reduce the amounts of hazardous wastes generated in
clinics and health posts include:
Take-back systems, where vendors or manufacturers take back unused or out-of-date
medications for controlled disposal;
Tight inventory control over medications, to avoid wastage due to expiration dates
(really a form of waste reduction).
The transfer of operations to the Provincial Directorate and the need to comply with a
maintenance plan is discussed in Chapter 7. The facility should be secure from
trespassers and stray animal to prevent scavenging of hazardous wastes.
70



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
ANNEX III
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SCREENING CHECKLIST
A. NAME, DEPARTMENT, JOB TITLE, AND CONTACT DETAILS FOR THE
PERSON WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR FILLING OUT THIS FORM:
Completed by (Name):
Contact details:
Date:
Signature:
B. Project Description
Name of Sub-project:
Name of Sub-project Execution Organization/Community:
Estimated Cost:
Location of the Sub-project:
Type and scale of the Sub-project:
Approximate size of the Sub-project in land area the location of the project.
C. THE CHECKLIST
Please fill in the checklist below:
Project Siting:
1. Are there any environmentally sensitive areas (intact natural forests, rivers or
wetlands, mangroves etc.) or threatened species (specify below) that could be
adversely affected by the project?: Yes  No_
2. Does the project occur within/adjacent to any protected areas designated by
government (national park, national reserve, etc.)?: Yes  No_
3. Based upon visual inspection or available literature, are there areas of possible
geologic or soil instability (erosion prone, landslide prone, subsidence-prone)?:
Yes       No_
4. Is the project located near to water sources used for domestic consumption such as
boreholes, water wells or springs?: Yes  No
71



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
5. Based on available sources, consultation with local authorities, local knowledge
and/or observations, could the project alter any historical, archaeological or cultural
heritage site?: Yes   No
6. Will the project result in displacerment, loss of assets, or access to assets?:
Yes       No_
7. Will the project result in the permanent or temporary loss of crops, fruit trees and
household infra-structure (such as granaries, outside toilets and kitchens, etc)?:
Yes-No_
Construction Related Activities
8. Will construction or operation of the Project use large amounts of local natural
resources such as water, timber, gravel from river beds, stones especially any
resources which are non-renewable or in short supply?: Yes  No_
9. Will the Project involve use, storage, transport or handling  of substances or
materials which could be harmful to human health or the environment?:
Yes-No_
10. Will the Project produce solid wastes during construction or decommissioning?:
Yes   No_
11. Will construction require the use of heavy machinery or equipment?:
Yes   No_
Operational Phase
12. Will the Project result in the production of solid wastes during the operational
phase?: Yes   No_
13. Will the Project result in hazardous wastes (including hospital wastes) during the
operational phase?: Yes-No_
14. Will the Project produce waste water that require drainage?: Yes  No_
15. Will the Project require community management of the services?: Yes  No
[All projects will require some form of community management? Not sure of the
purpose of the question]
72



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS II. Final Report
Proposed action
All the above answers are NO' D
There is at least one 'YES' D-I
If all the above answers are 'NO' there is no need for further action
If there is at least one 'YES' describe your recommended course of action in the space
below. If more space is needed, attach a separate sheet to the checklist.
73



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
E. RECOMMENDATION
Circle one of the following screening recommendations:
1.    All answers to the questions in Section D above are "No". There is no need for
further action.
2.    For all issues indicated by "Yes" answers to the questions in Section D above,
the proponent has included adequate mitigation measures in the project design.
No further planning action is required.  Implementation of the mitigation
measures will require supervision by the appropriate agency.
3.    For the following issues indicated by "Yes" answers in Section D above (specify
questions numbers):
the proponent has not provided adequate mitigation measures. The proponent
must revise the proposed project plan to provide adequate mitigation.
Specialist advice may be required in the following areas:
4.    For the following issues indicated by "Yes" answers in Section D above (specify
question numbers):
the proponent has not provided adequate mitigation measures. The proponent
must prepare an environmental assessment of the proposed project, and
revise the project plan according to the results of that assessment. Specialist
advice will be required in the following areas:
Signature
Date
74



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS III Final Report
ANNEX IV
Generic Terms of Reference for an EIA for the Construction of New Tertiary
Roads and Bridges
Compliance with Angolan Legislation
The EIA shall be carried in accordance with Angolan environmental legislation.
The EIA will result in the publication of a EIA Report that will includes a detailed
management plan which will be submitted to the National Directorate for the Environment
for review and approval.
Overall Objective of the EIA
The overall objective of the environmental impact assessment is to study and evaluate
the project components from an ecological, socio-economic and sustainable point of
view. Both positive and negative impacts during the construction, operational and
maintenance phases of the project will be evaluated.
Scope of Work
Task I Baseline Description
In order to predict potential impacts the consultant must fully describe the environmental
and socio-economic profile of the project area including the following:
*  biophysical features;
* socio-economic features;
*  land-use and land title status;
*  landscape (aesthetic features).
Task 2 Assessment of Impacts
An assessment of the impacts both during the construction and operational phases will be
made. Both positive and negative impacts must be considered.
The direct or indirect effect on natural habitats, fauna and flora, hydrological processes,
farmlands, domestic buildings, cultural sites and/or on natural resources used by local
communities will be evaluated. The impact of the new road on the potential spread of
HIG/AIDs should assessed.
The description and quantification of the environmental impact will, wherever possible, be
based on scientific, objective methods and include:
*  and duration:
* the provision of criteria by which impacts have been assessed;
75



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
* the consideration of cumulative impacts on the area;
* significance in terms of national, regional and local impacts.
Task 3 Mitigating Measures
Based on the findings the consultant must identify mitigating measures to reduce or
eliminate the negative effects of the project and to enhance positive impacts.
Task 4 Analysis of Altematives
An evaluation of altematives with respect to alignments, construction techniques and
operational procedures must be made. An estimate of the costs involved for the various
alternatives must be presented.
Task 5 Public Consultation
In accordance with Article 10 of the Angolan Environmental Law the consultants must
include Public Consultation within the EIA process
Task 6 Formulation of Environmental Management Plan and Monitoring Program
A monitoring program and environmental management plan for controlling impacts arising
from the construction, operational and maintenance phases must de drawn up.
Task 6 Preparation of EIA Report
In accordance with Article 16 of the Angolan Environmental Law an EIA report
comprising the following must be prepared:
*  A non-technical summary of the project;
*  A description of the activity to de carried out;
* A description of the baseline environmental situation in the area of influence
of the activity;
* A summary of comments arising from the public consultation process;
*  A prediction of the environmental and social impacts arising from the
project;
*  An indication of the mitigation measures to reduce or eliminate negative
impacts;
* An indication of systems to control and monitor the project.
76



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
ANNEX V
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
The following set of matrices summarises potential environmental impacts of civil works
and identifies responsibilities to mitigate potential impacts and for monitoring and
constitute the ESMP per sub-project. The matrices are organised according to sub-
project and encompass the full spectrum of civil works supported by the FAS III:
*  Buildings (rural markets, houses, schools, health posts, offices)
*  Water supply
*  Sanitation (public toilets and latrines)
*  Road works and bridges (construction and rehabilitation of feeder tertiary
roads only)
77



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS IL. Flnal Report
BUILDINGS/SERVICES (CLINICS, SCHOOLS AND MARKETS)
Phase           Impact     Required Action:      Who is      Signature
Mitigation Measure  Responsible
A. Actor       Actor
B. Monitor    B. Monitor
Planning      Loss of     Locate site in order to  A. NC / SP  A.
Phase        indigenous   avoid destruction of  B. FAS
vegetation  indigenous             Prov. or   B.
(Signature A  or sensitive  vegetation or        MA
during        habitats    sensitive habitats.
Planning      Loss of     Locate site on
phase;        productive  uninhabited land     A. NC / SP   A.
Signature B   inhabited   when possible. If    B. FAS Prov.
during       land and/or  inhabited, follow   or MA         B.       -
Appraisal     assets due  guidelines found in
phase)       to location  Resettlement Policy
of site     Framework and in
Operational Manual.
Loss of     Locate site on least  A. NC I SP
productive  productive or        B. FAS Prov.  A._
uninhabited  degraded land      or MA
land and                                      B.       -
assets due
to location
of site
Loss, of    Locate project on    A. NC / SP
vacant or   least productive or  B. FAS Prov.  A._
unused      degraded land       or MA
productive                                    B.       -
land,
resources
and other
assets on
any site
Loss of     When possible locate  A. NC J SP
inhabited or  site on vacant or  B. FAS Prov.  A._
used land,  unused land with no  or MA
resources   usage rights issues               B.       -
and assets,  OR affected people
by people   may voluntarily give
without     up land and assets
officially  on the site and be
recognized  provided with
usage rights replacement or
for the site  restoration of losses
(see Resettlement
Policy Framework
and Operational
Manual)
78



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS I1. Final Report
Loss of     When possible locate  A. NC / SP
rights and  site on vacant or    B. FAS Prov.  A._
used or     unused land with no  or MA
unused      or fewer usage rights             B.      -
land,       issues OR affected
resources   people may
and assets,  voluntarily give up
by people   rights, land and
with        assets on the site
officially  and be provided with
recognized  replacement or
usage rights restoration of losses
for the site  (see Resettlement
Policy Framework
and Operational
Manual)
Soil erosion  Locate site on level  A. NC / SP
(note steep  ground                           A._
areas, lack                      B. FAS Prov.
of                              or MA         B.      -
vegetation
cover and
high rainfall)
Construction  Removal of  Wherever possible   A.    Contra
Phase         intact      avoid removal of      ctor       A._
vegetation  trees or other intact
(Signature A  such trees,  vegetation         B.    Fiscal/ B._
at Contract   stream bank                       FAS Prov.
agreement;    vegetation                        or MA
Signature B   etc.
during        Unforeseen  Ensure that         A. Contractor
Monitoring of  damage to  construction workers,            A._
construction)  neighboring  vehicles and      B. Fiscal/ FAS
property    materials do not    Prov. or MA   B.
(e.g.       enter neighboring
damage to   property
vegetable
garden)
Localized   Carefully selected  A. Contractor
soil/water  storage area for                  A._
pollution   diesel and ensure   B. Fiscal/ FAS
from        proper storage and  Prov. or MA   B.
incorrect   handling of fuels to
storage and  prevent localized
handling of  pollution of soils.
diesel fuel
79



Environmental and Social Management Framework: FAS 111. Final Report
Localized    Used engine oil     A. Contractor
soil/water   should be properly                A._
pollution   stored in drums and  B. Fiscal/ FAS
from used    returned to the     Prov. or MA   B.
engine oil.  supplier for recycling
or should be
disposed of in proper
disposal sites.
Accumulatio (i)Remove and        A. Contractor
n of solid  dispose of solid                   A.
wastes       waste in pits and   B .Fiscal/ FAS
creating     cover with top soil on  Prov. or MA  B.
health risks  closure; (ii)
and         recommended:
negative     mount awareness
aesthetic    campaigns for the
impact.     workforce. (iii) where
possible use building
debris for back-filling
and construction of
drains, soak-aways
and paved walk ways
Operational   Accumulatio (i) Remove and
Phase         n  of non- dispose of solid        A. NC /     A.
hazardous   waste in dedicated     Hired
(Signature A  solid wastes land fill site or dig pits  Caretaker
at project    creating     and cover with top                B.
transfer;     health risks soil (ii)
Signature B at and         Recommended:         B. FAS or
Ex-post/ M&E  negative     Design, promote &   MA Monitor
evaluation)   aesthetic    conduct public
impacts.     hygiene awareness
campaigns focusing
on adverse health
impacts arising as a
consequence of
indiscriminate
disposal of solid
wastes.
Hazardous   Open up pit            A. NC /
hospital    specifically for       Hired       A.
wastes       hospital wastes. Burn  Caretaker
creating    and cover with top                 B.
health risks soil. (See also Annex
an          il for more detailed  B. FAS or
information on      MA Monitor
disposal of hospital
wastes)
80



Environmental and Social Management Framework. FAS Ill. Final Report
Overflowing  See sections on       A. NC /
septic tanks, septic tanks, latrines  Hired   A.
poorly      and drainage           Caretaker
maintained  channels.                         B.
latrines and
drainage                          B. FAS or
channels                         MA Monitor
Lack of     Recommended: Plant     A. NC /
shade       shade trees and        Hired      A.
(this may be  shrubs, especially in  Caretaker
due to      schools                            B.
construction
activities or                     B. FAS or
the inherent                     MA Monitor
nature of
the site)
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT - GENERAL/ALL (See also Specific
Measures for each project type)
Who is           Signature
Phase         Impact          Required      Responsible
Action:         A. Actor          A. Actor
Mitigation      B. Monitor        B. Monitor
Measures
Accumulation  Locate site so
of   stagnant that there is A. NC/ SP         A._
pools      of lower ground
wastewater.   to    receive B. FAS Prov. or   B._
excess        MA
drainage
water.
Loss of        Locate site on  A. NC / SP     A.
productive     uninhabited
inhabited land  land when   B. FAS Prov. or   B.
and assets     possible. If  MA
due to location  inhabited,
of            follow
infrastructure  guidelines
found in
Resettlement
Policy
Framework
and in
Operational
Manual.
81



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 111. Final Report
Loss of        When          A. NC / SP
inhabited or   possible      B. FAS Prov. or   A.
used land,    locate site on  MA               B.
resources and  vacant or
assets, by     unused land
people without with no usage
officially    rights issues
recognized     OR affected
usage rights   people may
for the site   voluntarily
give up land
and assets on
the site and
be provided
with
replacement
or restoration
of losses (see
Resettlement
Policy
Framework
and
Operational
Manual)
Loss of rights  When         A. NC / SP
and used or    possible      B. FAS Prov. or  A.
unused land,   locate site on  MA             B.
resources and  vacant or
assets, by     unused land
people with    with no or
officially    fewer usage
recognized    rights issues
usage rights   OR affected
for the site   people may
voluntarilv
give up rights,
land and
assets on the
site and be
provided with
replacement
or restoration
of losses (see
Resettlement
Policy
Framework
and
Operational
Manual)
82



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS II1. Final Report
Stagnant      Ensure
Construction  pools     of provision   of A. Contractor     A._
wastewater    adequate
(Signature A  providing     drainage      B. Fiscal/ FAS    B..
at Contract   conditions    channels      Prov. or MA
agreement;   suitable   for away    from
Signature B   the           water source.
during        proliferation of
Monitoring of  water  borne To avoid water
construction)  diseases.   logging     of
soils,    lay
gravel around
the     water
source.
Unforeseen    Ensure that   A. Contractor
damage to     construction                    A.
neighbouring  workers,      B. Fiscal/ FAS
property (e.g.  vehicles, and  Prov. or MA    B.
damage to     materials do
vegetable     not enter
garden)       neighbouring
property.
Contamination  Establish  an A. Contractor
of      water exclusion                       A._
source    by zone   in the B. Fiscal/ FAS
seepage from  immediate      Prov. or MA      B.       .
latrines.     vicinity of the
water source.
Contamination  Ensure       A. Contractor
of      water latrines  are                   A._
source    by constructed a B. Fiscal/ FAS
animal     &  minimum    of Prov. or MA       B.       .
human         30m (optimally
wastes.       60m)    away
from the water
source.
Operational   Drainage      Keep     the
(Signature A  channels      drainage      A NC / Hired
at project    becoming      channels       a. NCtak e       A.
transfer;     blocked  with clean and free Caretaker
Signature B   debris  (e.g. of debris (e.g.                 B..
at Ex-post/   plastic  bags) plastic  bags,  B. FAS or MA
M&E           resulting  in etc.)         Monitor
evaluation)   impeded
drainage and  Mount
localized     awareness
flooding      campaigns for
local
community.
83



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1l/. Final Report
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT CONTINUED:
SPECIFIC FOR HAND DUG WELLS
Who is        Signature
Phase              Impact         Required     Responsible
Action:        A. Actor       A. Actor
Mitigating    B. Monitor     B. Monitor
Measures
Planning      Stagnant pools of Select well site
(Signature A  wastewater       where drainage   A. NC / SP  A._
during        providing        away from   the
Planning      conditions       well  can   be   B. FAS      B..
phase;        suitable for the established.     Prov. or MA
Signature B   proliferation  of
during        water      borne Avoid
Appraisal     diseases.        depressions  or
phase)                         low lying poorly
drained ground.
Construction  Contamination of Establish   an
(Signature A  water source by exclusion  zone A NC/Hid
at Contract   animal & human in the immediate ACa/eired A.
agreement;    wastes.          vicinity of the Caretaker
Signature B                    water source.                B..
during                                          B. FAS or
Monitoring of                                  MA Monitor
construction)                                  MA Monitor
Contamination of Ensure latrines
water source by are constructed  A. NC / Hired
seepage    from  a minimum   of Caretaker     A._
latrines         30m   (optimally
60m) away from               B.       .
the      water   B. FAS or
Operational                    source.         MA Monitor
(Signature  A  Contamination of Install  hand
at     project water source by pump & prohibit A. NC / Hired
transfer;     users.           the lowering of Caretaker    A._
Signature B at                 containers into
Ex-postV M&E                   the well.                     B.
evaluation)                                     B. FAS or
Ensure     the MA Monitor
welihead     is
properly sealed.
84



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 111. Final Report
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT CONTINUED:
SPECIFIC FOR HAND PUMP & MECHANIZED BOREHOLE WATER SUPPLY
Who is        Signature
Phase             Impact         Required      Responsible
Action:        A. Actor       A. Actor
Mitigation     B. Monitor     B. Monitor
measures
Planning      Spillage  water The site selection
(Signature A  around borehole. for    borehole  A. NC / SP  A._
during                        should     avoid
Planning                      depressions  or  B. FAS       B.      .
phase;                        low-lying  poorly  Prov. or MA
Signature B                   drained sites.
during
Appraisal
phase)
Spillage  water Fill        any
Construction  around borehole depression in the A. Contractor A._
providing       vicinity  of  the
(Signature A at breeding ground borehole       B. Fiscal/   B..
Contract      for water borne                  FAS Prov. or
agreement;    diseases        Construct     a MA
Signature B                   drainage channel
during                        to         lead
Monitoring of                 wastewater away
construction)                 from  pump pad
and  into  local
drainage
channels.
Erosion         Construct     a
undermining     drainage channel A. Contractor A.
hand pump pad   to         lead
wastewater away B. Fiscal/    B.
from pump pad.   FAS Prov. or
MA
The area around
the hand pump
pad should be
filled with gravel
Contamination of Construct    a
borehole  water drainage channel A. Contractor A._
by spillage water to       lead
on pump pad     wastewater away B. Fiscal/   B.       .
from pump pad.   FAS Prov. or
MA
The area around
the hand pump
pad should be
filled with gravel.
85



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS II. Final Report
Contamination of Install pump base A. Contractor
borehole  water into concrete pad             A._
by seepage from  and extend above B. Fiscal/
latrines        surface of pad.  FAS Prov. or  B._
MA
Contamination of Do   not  allow  A. Contractor
borehole  water latrines  to  be
by seepage from  constructed within B. Fiscal/  A._
latrines        a   minimum  30 FAS Prov. or
meters  of   the MA           B.
hand dug well, 60
meters       is
preferable.
Contamination of Construct fence to A. Contractor
borehole  water keep     animals
by       animal away from   well B. Fiscal/   A._
wastes          head             FAS Prov. or
MA           B.
Operational    Hand    pumps Establish       a
break   through system to support A. NC / Hired
(Signature A at improper use   the  maintenance Caretaker    A._
project                        costs of the hand
transfer;                      pump                          B..
Signature B at                                   B. FAS or
Ex-post/ M&E                   Recommended:     MA Monitor
evaluation)                    Campaigns
should be
conducted to
promote the
proper use of the
hand pump
86



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 111. Final Report
PUBLIC TOILETS AND LATRINES
Who is          Signature
Phase            Impact       Required       Responsible
Action:         A. Actor         A. Actor
Mitigation      B. Monitor       B. Monitor
measures
Planning     Contamination  Locate latrines  A. NC / SP
of      water at least 30m but                A._
(Signature A  supply       preferably 60m  B. FAS Prov. or
during       sources       away      from  MA               B.       .
Planning                   wells, springs, &
phase;                     boreholes.
Signature B  Loss of        Locate site on  A. NC / SP     A.
during       productive     uninhabited
Appraisal    inhabited land  land when     B. FAS Prov. or  B.
phase)       and assets     possible. If   MA
due to location  inhabited, follow
of            guidelines
infrastructure  found in
Resettlement
Policy
Framework and
in Operational
Manual.
Loss of       When possible   A. NC / SP
inhabited or  locate site on  B. FAS Prov. or  A.
used land,    vacant or      MA               B.
resources and  unused land
assets, by    with no usage
people without rights issues
officially    OR affected
recognized    people may
usage rights  voluntarily give
for the site  up land and
assets on the
site and be
provided with
replacement or
restoration of
losses (see
Resettlement
Policy
Framework and
Operational
Manual)
87



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
Loss of rights  When possible  A. NC / SP
and used or    locate site on  B. FAS Prov. or  A.
unused land,  vacant or       MA               B.
resources and  unused land
assets, by    with no or fewer
people with   usage rights
officially    issues OR
recognized    affected people
usage rights  may voluntarily
for the site  give up rights,
land and assets
on the site and
be provided
with
replacement or
restoration of
losses (see
Resettlement
Policy
Framework and
Operational
Manual)
Lack of water Ensure     the A. NC/ SP
for continuous installation  of                A.
toilet service  water reservoirs B. FAS Prov. or
(at soil level and MA           B.
elevated)  with
enough capacity
Construction  If the public latrines form part of a A. Contractor
(Signature A  larger project (a "combinado"),               A._
at Contract  follow relevant specifications for B. Fiscal/ FAS
agreement;    other project type.          Prov. or MA      B..
Signature B
during
Monitoring of
construction)
It is very important that the A. Contractor
design specifications of septic                A._
tanks are strictly adhered to (e.g. B.Fiscal/  FAS
tanks located below ground) in Prov. or MA     B.       .
order to ensure proper below
ground seepag 
Lack of water Install  water A. Contractor
for continuous reservoirs  (at                 A.
toilet service  soil level and  B. Fiscal/ FAS
elevated)  with Prov. or MA     B.
enough capacity
Contamination  Locate latrines A. Contractor
of      water at least 30m but                 A._
supply        preferably 60m  B. Fiscal/ FAS
sources       away      from  Prov. or MA      B.       .
wells, springs, &
boreholes.
88



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS ill. Final Report
Unforeseen    Ensure that     A. Contractor
damage to     construction                     A.
neighbouring  workers,        B. Fiscal/ FAS
property (e.g.  vehicles, and  Prov. or MA     B.
damage to     materials do not
vegetable     enter
garden)       neighbouring
property
Operational   Inadequate    Establish   a A. NC / Hired
routine       routine         Caretaker        A._
(Signature A  cleaning   &  maintenance &
at project    maintenance   cleaning service                B..
transfer;     creates       through         B. FAS or MA
Signature B   unhygienic    caretaker   or Monitor
at Ex-post/   conditions, &  community
M&E          as   a  result action.
evaluation)   people  avoid
using them.
Septic  tanks Ensure   proper
overflowing &  management of A. NC / Hired
contaminating  toilet-septic tank Caretaker    A.
surface water.  system  e.g.,
prevent excess                  B.        .
water   flowing  B. FAS or MA
into the septic Monitor
tanks     from
leaking taps.
Establish   &
support
affordable pump
out   services,
when possible.
Recommended:
Through public
health
education
campaigns,
raise awareness
about      the
dangers     of
exposed
sewage.
89



Environmental and Social Management Framework- FAS Ill. Final Report
ROADS, BRIDGES AND CULVERTS
Who is        Signature
Phase            Impact        Required       Responsible
Action:         A. Actor        A. Actor
Mitigation      B. Monitor      B. Monitor
measures
Planning      Loss      of Carefully  select
productive    alignment    that A. NC / SP    A._
(Signature A  land  and/or causes   minimum
during        natural      or no disturbance  B. FAS Prov.  B.
Planning      vegetation.  (in the case of new  or MA
phase;                     roads).
Signature B
during                      Locate borrow pits
Appraisal                   and      workers
phase)                     camps that cause
minimum or no
disturbance   to
human
communities and
natural vegetation.
Loss of       Locate site on   A. NC I SP     A.
productive    uninhabited land
inhabited land  when possible. If  B. FAS Prov.  B.
and assets   inhabited, follow  or MA
due to        guidelines found in
location of   Resettlement
infrastructure  Policy Framework
and in Operational
Manual.
Loss, of      Locate project on  A. NC / SP
vacant or    least productive or  B. FAS Prov.  A.
unused        degraded land     or MA         B.
productive
land,
resources and
other assets
on any site
90



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS i1l. Final Report
Loss of       When possible      A. NC / SP
inhabited or  locate site on     B. FAS Prov.  A.
used land,    vacant or unused  or MA         B.
resources and  land with no usage
assets, by    rights issues OR
people without affected people
officially    may voluntarily
recognized    give up land and
usage rights  assets on the site
for the site  and be provided
with replacement
or restoration of
losses (see
Resettlement
Policy Framework
and Operational
Manual)
Loss of rights  When possible   A. NC / SP
and used or   locate site on    B. FAS Prov.  A.
unused land,  vacant or unused  or MA         B.
resources and  land with no or
assets, by    fewer usage rights
people with   issues OR affected
officially    people may
recognized    voluntarily give up
usage rights  rights, land and
for the site  assets on the site
and be provided
with replacement
or restoration of
losses (see
Resettlement
Policy Framework
and Operational
Manual)
Landscape     Develop      and
Construction  disfiguration  implement     a A. Contractor  A._
and loss of   borrow        pit
(Signature A  natural/semi-  management plan  B. Fiscal/ FAS  B._
at Contract   natural habitat  that  includes Prov. or MA
agreement;    due to opening  opening,
Signature B   of borrow pits  operational  and
during        and temporary  rehabilitation
Monitoring of  access roads.  procedures.
91



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
Monitoring of  Localized    Store, handle and
construction)  pollution from  dispose    of A. Contractor  A.
wastes.       potential pollutants
and    hazardous B. Fiscal/ FAS  B.
materials in proper Prov. or MA
site.
Non-hazardous
solid wastes can
be disposed of in
pits and covered
with top soil on
closure.
Unforeseen    Ensure that       A. Contractor
damage to     construction                    A.
neighbouring  workers, vehicles,  B. Fiscal/ FAS
property (e.g.  and materials do  Prov. or MA  B.
damage to     not enter
vegetable     neighbouring
garden)       property
Roadway       Install bridges or
blocking      culverts  across A. Contractor  A._
drainage      natural  &  man-
channels  for made     drainage B. Fiscal/ FAS  B._
water runoff.  channels.        Prov. or MA
Design dimensions
appropriate   to
typical   rainfall
patterns.
Perform   routine
maintenance   to
ensure       that
culverts are kept
clear of debris.
Ponding   on Road        profile
roadways      construction      A. Contractor  A._
providing     design to ensure
breeding sites rapid drainage off B. Fiscal/ FAS  B._
for     water the road surface. Prov. or MA
borne         May also involve
diseases   &  raising  the  road
vectors    of above ground level
water  borne
diseases.
92



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
Erosion       Construct drainage
caused     by ditches along either
inadequate    side of the road, & if A.Contractr A.
drainage      required,   install A. Contractor
along         check    drainage  B. Fiscal! FAS
roadways.     dams   to  control Prov. orFMA   B.
water flow velocity.
Direct road surface
runoff into natural
or      man-made
drainage channels.
Maximize      the
number of receiving
channels to avoid
erosion caused by
overflow.
Recommended:
Plant soil binding
vegetation on the
uphill  sides  of
ditches to reduce
the velocity of water
runoff.
Operational   Increase in   Recommended:       A. NC / Hired
(Signature A  transmissible  Awareness         Caretaker
at project    diseases      campaigns                        A._
transfer;     especially    informing    local
Signature B at STDs and     communities of the  B. FAS or MA  B._
Ex-post/ M&E  AIDS.         increased   health  Monitor
evaluation)                 risks mounted by
NGO's and the
local      health
services
93



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 111. Final Report
FOOTPATHS
Who is          Signature
Phase            Impact      Required Action:   Responsible
Mitigation        A. Actor         A. Actor
measures          B. Monitor       B. Monitor
Planning      Loss of       Locate site on    A. NC / SP       A.
(Signature A  productive    uninhabited land
during       inhabited land  when possible. If  B. FAS Prov. or  B.
Planning      and assets    inhabited, follow  MA
phase;        due to location  guidelines found in
Signature B   of            Resettlement
during       infrastructure  Policy Framework
Appraisal                   and in Operational
phase)                      Manual.
Loss, of      Locate project on  A. NC / SP
vacant or     least productive or  B. FAS Prov. or  A.
unused        degraded land     MA               B.
productive
land,
resources and
other assets
on any site
Loss of       When possible      A. NC / SP
inhabited or  locate site on     B. FAS Prov. or  A.
used land,    vacant or unused  MA               B.
resources and  land with no usage
assets, by    rights issues OR
people without affected people
officially    may voluntarily
recognized    give up land and
usage rights  assets on the site
for the site  and be provided
with replacement
or restoration of
losses (see
Resettlement
Policy Framework
and Operational
Manual)
94



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
Loss of rights  When possible    A. NC / SP
and used or   locate site on     B. FAS Prov. or  A.
unused land,  vacant or unused  MA               B.
resources and  land with no or
assets, by    fewer usage rights
people with   issues OR affected
officially    people may
recognized    voluntarily give up
usage rights  rights, land and
for the site  assets on the site
and be provided
with replacement
or restoration of
losses (see
Resettlement
Policy Framework
and Operational
Manual)           ,
Construction  Footpath     Install bridges or A. Contractor
blocking      culverts   across                 A._
(Signature A  drainage      natural  &  man- B. Fiscal/ FAS
at Contract   channels  for made     drainage Prov. or MA     B..
agreement;    water runoff.  channels
Signature B   Ponding   on Design   paths to
during       footpaths      facilitate  drainage A. Contractor
Monitoring of  providing    &  if necessary,                  A._
construction)  breeding sites raise above ground  B. Fiscal/ FAS
for     water level.            Prov. or MA      B..
borne
diseases   &
vectors    of
water   borne
diseases.
Unforeseen    Ensure that       A. Contractor
damage to     construction                       A.
neighbouring  workers, vehicles,  B. Fiscal/ FAS
property (e.g.  and materials do  Prov. or MA    B.
damage to     not enter
vegetable     neighbouring
garden)       property
95



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill. Final Report
Footpaths     Construct drainage
becoming      ditches along either
watercourses  side of the road, & A. Contractor  A._
during  heavy if required, install
rains      & check     drainage
causing       dams   to  control B. Fiscal/ FAS
erosion.      water flow velocity.  Prov. or MA  B.       .
Road      surface
runoff directed into
natural or man-
made     drainage
channels.
Maximize     the
number        of
receiving channels
to avoid erosion
caused        by
overflow.
Recommended:
Plant soil binding
vegetation on the
uphill  sides  of
ditches to reduce
the   velocity  of
water runoff.
Operational   Footpath      Perform   routine
(Signature A  blocking      maintenance   to A. NC / Hired    A._
at project    drainage      keep them clear of Caretaker
transfer;     channels  for debris etc.
Signature B at water runoff.                                  B.
Ex-posV M&E                                   B. FAS or MA
evaluation)                                   Monitor
Ponding   on  Provide   routine A. NC / Hired
footpaths     maintenance to fill Caretaker      A._
providing     depressions  with
breeding sites granular material.                B.      .
for     water                   B. FAS or MA
borne                           Monitor
diseases   &
vectors    of
water   borne
diseases.
96



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill Final Report
ANNEX VI
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION FOR FAS III SUB- PROJECTs
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
In Angola, the environmental issues are managed by the National Directorate for the
Environment within Ministry for Urbanism and Environment (MINUA).
However, due the war and the urgent need for reconstruction and poverty alleviation,
there is a lack of institutional capability deal with environmental issues. This weakness
is also reflected in the Laws and regulations to perform the environmental studies.
Related to the public consultation process, there are two legal documents that refer to
the public consultations:
- The Environmental Framework Law (Law 5/98, 19 of July);
- The Land Law (Law 21-C/92, 28 of August),
MINUA is in the process finalize of finalizing the draft regulations of Environmental
Impact Evaluation. Based on these draft Regulations, the public consultation process
must be carried on during the EIA studies. The level of the public consultation will be
defined according to the complexity of the project.
The sub-projects to be implemented in FAS IlIl project will probably not require,
according to the Angola Draft Regulations, a detailed EIA. Therefore a standard formal
Public Consultation Process will also not be required.
APPROACH
As this a community driven project, the involvement of the community and community
awareness are very important, constituting the conditions for the success of the project.
Therefore, it was decided to produce these guidelines to target group involvement -
defined as Communication Plan.
The major difference between this Communication Plan and Public Consultation
process is the procedure. A Public Consultation Process has standard procedures to
be followed. In this case, due the nature sub-projects, we are proposing an easier way
to incorporate the issue and concerns from the interested and affected public.
97



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1l. Final Report
THE COMMUNICATION PLAN
The main objectives of the communication plan are as follows:
To provide sufficient and accessible information to target group in an objective manner
to allow them to know about the project and consequently to be candidates to the FAS
III subprojects, and promote awareness of the communities towards environmental
problems resultant from the subprojects.
It is important that the Social Action Fund (FAS) recognizes the value and advantages
of this process.
The Communication Plan is comprised of 3 steps:
Step I - Disseminate FAS IIl and create a mechanism of interaction with stakeholders
in general, including those based in Luanda City (University and Academic entities).
Disseminate the potential subprojects to be funded by FAS.
Step 11 - Disclose the "Environmental and Social Management Framework Report" and
ESSC; Disseminate the criteria of selecting the Municipalities and the communities and
continue to spread information regarding the type of subprojects to be funded by FAS.
Start the process of identifying stakeholders and creation of a stakeholder's database
organized by Provincial FAS. Finally, consolidation of a channel of interaction with
stakeholders.
Step Ill - Disseminate the FAS procedures for subproject application and the
Environmental and Social Screening Checklist and ESMP. Within selected
communities, support the NCs ("Nucleos Comunitarios") to understand ESMP and
related checklists. Interact with stakeholders through various channels to ensure that
those with environmental skills and interests have the opportunity to contribute or to
comment, on the selection of Municipalities and communities to implement the
subprojects.
With this approach FAS intend to be transparent on the identification of Municipalities
and communities where the subproject will be implemented. Also these procedures will
allow all stakeholders to contribute to environmental and social management.
The communication plan will reach the interested and affected parties at 4 levels:
National, Provincial, Municipality and Community levels. To reach this goal, it is
proposed to use a broad range of communications tools at least in the initial phase of
the programme. Also, it is important to create a stakeholders database, organized by
Provincial FAS.
98



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS IL. Final Report
STEP I - Divulgation of FAS III Project:
a) Divulge general information of FAS III Project
b) Divulge type of project that will be funded by FAS III
c) Acknowledge comments on FAS Ill project both from target group and general
public.
Channels to use
a) Journal Amigo
b) Campaign of radio and/or TV
c) Web page/e-mail
d) Folders and posters
e) Meetings
Radio and/or TV and Web pages will be used for disseminating general information on
FAS Ill project. The use of the above channels envisages involving people in urban
and peri-urban areas. These media will also target the general public. The Web page
will allow the incorporation academic stakeholders with skills which are is not always
available within FAS.
In rural areas, the most useful mean of communication will be direct contact,
(meetings) since the Radio and TV coverage does not reach those areas. Also the
high degree of illiteracy hampers the use of posters and written documents. To make it
more effective, partners as NGOs and Churches should be used.
To obtain support from sectoral line ministries the FAS IIl project and subprojects must
be discussed within FAS National and Provincial Committees. All communication tools
must provide contact details of FAS at National and Provincial level. For each province
a focal point must be nominated. All contribution received from the different sources
should be used to improve the FAS Ill project and subprojects. These contributions
should also be shared with FAS National and Provincial committees.
STEP 11 - Dissemination of ESMF and Selection of Intervention Areas
Objectives
a) Disclose the summary of ESMF
b) Disseminate the selection criteria of Municipality and Communities
c) Establish Stakeholders database
d) Consolidate the means of interaction with stakeholders
99



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1l. Final Report
Channels to use
a) Journal Amigo
b) Radio announcements
c) Web page
d) Folders and posters
e) Meetings
The FAS will disclose the ESMF to the Municipalities at same time with the selection
criteria of the Municipality and Communities. The ESMF and these criteria will be
shared at FAS National and Provincial Committees and incorporate their comments.
At this stage, through the Provincial Directorates, FAS will also start the process of
stakeholders identification.
NGOs, Churches and traditional leaders should be incorporated in the provincial
database. These stakeholders could also be partners of FAS and help them in the
dissemination of above-mentioned information. These stakeholders will also help FAS
to complete the database by gathering the data from "Comunas" and Communities that
could be candidates for the implementation of the subprojects.
This way, FAS will have disseminated the proposed information at different levels of
stakeholders and simultaneously have the database developed (see attach form to
capture the stakeholder inventory).
The proposed Municipalities and communities list will be made public. The
stakeholders will have time and opportunities to comment. Stakeholders could send to
FAS e-mails, faxes, and letters or contact FAS focal points at Provincial or Central level
expressing their concerns. All correspondence received should be captured and made
available to the FAS National and Provincial Committees.
Issues and concerns expressed by the stakeholders should be used to improve the
selection of the Municipalities and communities. Finally, FAS could disclose the list of
Municipalities and communities to implement the FAS subprojects.
STEP Ill - Dissemination of FAS procedures for Environmental Management
Objectives
a) Disseminate FAS procedures
b) Disclose ESMP and Checklist
c) Consolidate stakeholders database
d) Improve the channel of communication
Channels to use
a) Journal Amigo
b) Web page
c) Meetings
d) Municipality Consultative Forum
The assumption at this stage are that Municipalities and Communities were selected to
implement the subprojects. It is also assumed that the Municipality Consultative Forum
and "Nucleos Comunitarios" (NC) have been created.
In all these target areas (Municipalities, Communities) FAS will disseminate the ESMP
and the FAS procedures. The checklist will be explained in detail to the Municipality
100



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS Ill Final Report
Consultative Forum and NC. The Social Promoters will also be invited to attend the
explanation (training).
The Environmental Screening and ESMPs forms will be placed at web page and
available to the public in all FAS offices. Filled Environmental Screening Forms will also
be available to the public. This is an important step since it will provide an opportunity
to identify and mitigate mistakes occurred during the subproject site selection. The
stakeholder's comments must be carefully analyzed and their contributions should be
incorporate before the project implementation phase.
101



Environmental and Social Management Framework. FAS Ill. Final Report
Cronogram of Communication Plan
Step I
FAS III PROJECT
<     1          Central Level                 >
Coordination
Radio TV                                                  Committee
Web page                       Meetings
Posters, Jornal
Stakeholders Comments            Amigo                      Stakeholders, University
Comments
FAS III PROJECT
Provincial Level
Posters
Meetings               Comite de
Coordenacao
Stakeholders (NGOs,
Stakeholders (NGOs,                                     Churches Comments
Churches Comments



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll Final Report
Chronogram of Communication Plan
Step TI
CENTRAL LEVEL
Summary of ESMF
Municipalities and Communities
Selection Criteria
Web page,                              Coordination
Jornal Amigo          Meetings           Committee
Stakeholderes, public in
general Comments                                                   Stakeholderes,
University Comments
PROVINCIAL LEVEL
Disclosure of ESMF
Municipalities/Communities Selection
Criteria
Coordination
Meetings, workshops          Committee
(including with group
of Women's
Stakeholderes                                           Stakeholders Comments
Comments                                                ONGS, CHURCH, NC
ONGS, CHURCH, NC
1Vi



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 1ll. Final Report
Chronogram     of Communication Plan
Step III
CENTRAL LEVEL
Environmental Guidelines and Checklists
FAS procedures
Web page,                                    Coordination
Jomal Amigo               Meetings            Committee
Stakeholders, public                                             Stakeholders, UJniversity
Comments                                                     Comments
PROVINCIAL LEVEL
Environmental Guidelines and Checklists
FAS procedures
Coordination
Committee
Workshops, Meetings,
selected group meetings
Stakeholders Comments                                            Stakeholders Comments
ONGS, CHURCH, NC                                                  "     >  TNC-IQ T-TTfTC
FEED BACK
ENVIRONMETNAL TRAINING
Stakeholders Identification Process
104



Environmental and Social Management Framework FAS 11l. Final Report
Individuals as well as organisations must have an opportunity to contribute to
the project. It is important to understand that the proponent's staff who are not
directly involved in the project and the various authorities are also stakeholders.
Authorities also participate in the process in order to gain first-hand knowledge
of stakeholder issues, concerns and suggestions.
The following sectors of stakeholders are examples of who shall be included according
to the nature of the Social Action Fund:
- Central, Provincial Government and Local Authorities (special cases should
be considered for the sample sites)
- Agostinho Neto University
- Local land owners
- Water management authorities
- Environmental bodies, both as authorities and NGOs
- Churches
- local groupings in the vicinity of the proposed project (urban and peri-urban
associations) including church groups, women's groups, voluntary
associations, and others
Stakeholders' details shall be captured on a database. Comments and contributions
received from stakeholders are recorded on the database, linked to the name of the
person who made the comment.
Note that the database also is used to code what is termed 'key stakeholders.' These
would include the authorities and other key individuals who may act as spokespeople
for their sectors or Community. An easy way to determine who are key stakeholders is
to ask other stakeholders.
105



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 111)
Resettlement Policy Framework
Angola Social Action Fund III (FAS 111)
Prepared on behalf of the FAS
(Angola) and the World Bank
May 2003
|Resettlement Policy Frame worl



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1ll)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION                                                              1
1.1 Background to the project                                            1
1.2 Summary description of the project                                   2
1.3 Preparation of the resettlement policy framework                    4
2. POSSIBLE ADVERSE SOCIAL IMPACTS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS                    7
2.1 Large to medium size buildings                                       7
2.2 Small buildings and infrastructure                                   8
2.3 Water supply and distribution sub-projects                           8
2.4 Tree nurseries and afforestation sub-projects                        8
2.5 Roads and associated infrastructure                                  9
3. THE LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR LOSS OF LAND AND ASSETS                         10
4. VOLUNTARY DONATIONS OF LAND AND ASSETS FOR COMMUNITY PROJECTS
12
5. OBJECTIVES AND PRINCIPLES FOR ASSET REPLACEMENT AND RESTORATION
13
5.1 Objectives                                                          13
5.2 Principles                                                          13
6. PROCESS FOR DEALING WITH LAND AND ASSETS IN FAS SUB-PROJECTS            15
6.1 Overall responsibility                                              15
6.2 Preliminary tasks                                                   15
6.3 Identification and selection of sub-projects                        15
6.4 Environmental screening                                             15
6.5 Baseline survey                                                     16
6.6 Negotiation of asset replacement or restoration measures            16
6.7 Ceding and reallocation of land                                     16
6.8 Replacement and restoration of other assets lost                    16
6.9 Review and approval of sub-project dossiers                         17
6.10Delivery of entitlements                                            17
6.11 Grievances                                                         17
7. MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                               18
Resettlement Policy Framework          i



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS Ill)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDC                Community Development Component
CDD                Community driven development
DP                 Displaced person
EA                 Environmental analysis/assessment
EMP                Environmental management plan
ESMF               Environmental and social management framework
FAS                Social Action Fund (Fundo de Apoio Social)
GOA                Government of Angola
m                  metre
MA                 Municipal Administrator
MDC                Municipal Development Component
NC                 Nucleo communitario
NCC                National Co-ordinating Committee
NCU                National Co-ordinating Unit
OP                 Operational procedures
PCC                Provincial Co-ordinating Committee
RAP                Resettlement action plan
RPF                Resettlement policy framework
TSS                Transitional Support Strategy
USD                United States Dollar
WB                 World Bank
Resettlement Policy Framework         ii



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1l1)
1.    INTRODUCTION
1.1   Background to the project
The 27 years of armed conflict in Angola have had a profound effect on all aspects of social
and economic life in the country. The conflict, and in particular the considerable internal
displacement, caused widespread poverty, weak governance, resource mismanagement
and stalled democratisation. Since the signing of a formal ceasefire agreement in April
2002, Angola has been struggling to complete a complex triple transition: from war to peace;
from centralised to democratic government; and from a state-controlled to a market
economy.
The peace agreement has provided Angola with a unique opportunity to achieve a
permanent reduction in poverty. The World Bank (WB) is providing technical and financial
support to the Government of Angola (GOA) to plan and implement the Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy. The framework for the WB/GOA co-operation is described in the
Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) which is organised around:
-     enhancing  the transparency, efficiency and  credibility of public resource
management;
-     expanding service delivery to war-affected and other vulnerable groups; and
-     preparing the ground for broad-based, pro-poor economic growth.
In 1993 the Social Action Fund (FAS) was established with the intention of improving access
to basic services and to generate temporary employment for the poor in rural and peri-urban
areas, through rehabilitating and re-equipping community infrastructure in health, education
and sanitation. FAS is a demand-driven funding mechanism intended to help the process of
poverty alleviation and human resource development in the country. FAS directly supports
all three pillars of the TSS and can be considered to be an important agent in the triple
transition that the country is going through.
The initial FAS project (FAS I) included a wide range of sub-projects which primarily focused
on the reconstruction and re-establishment of essential social services. Some 650 sub-
projects were financed. FAS I was successful in channelling resources and technical
expertise to improve access and quality of basic social and economic services through the
provision of community based infrastructure to poor communities. It did not, however, focus
on the process of strengthening human and social capital at the community level.
A second project (FAS II) was implemented in late 2000 and financed over 1 100 sub-
projects. FAS II had a stronger performance in building physical capital and started to build
human and social capital of project partners (both at intermediary and community levels)
within the framework of the project cycle.
The FAS IlIl project, currently being developed, will build on lessons learned from FAS I and
IL. It will continue along the same lines but will make a more concerted effort, both in its
design and implementation, to more closely relate investment in the three forms of capital:
physical; human; and social, at both community and municipal (district) levels. Investments
in physical, human and social capital will be organised in a more sharply-focused,
community-driven development (CDD) framework in order to give greater control over
decisions and resources to community groups and local institutions, including municipal
government. FAS IlIl will focus on empowering its partners and help build up an enabling
environment in which communities, implementing partners and local administrations will be
capacitated to become the main actors of the local development process.
Resettflement Policy Framework       1



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS Ill)
1.2   Summary description of the project
A detailed description of the project is presented in the Project Appraisal Document for the
Angola Social Action Fund prepared by the WB Task Team.
The development objective of FAS IlIl is to achieve improved, expanded and sustainable
utilisation of basic social and economic services and to support a governance system where
local government and communities can gradually become mutually accountable. To reach
that development objective, FAS IlIl will provide or rehabilitate social and economic
infrastructure, primarily in peri-urban and rural areas, through small-sub-projects. Applying a
CDD approach, FAS IlIl will build human and social capital within and between communities
and external support agents, such as local administrations and civil society organisations.
Following this approach, FAS IlIl will provide support to a governance structure that creates
norms and networks among community members and local institutions to facilitate collective
action around common goals, with emphasis on participation, social inclusion and mutual
accountability.
The longer term vision is that FAS, as an institution, will move out of its core project
implementation functions and transfer its responsibilities and capacities to its implementing
partners at community and municipal levels. In the medium term, the role of FAS will
increasingly be one of co-ordination, quality control and financial intermediation.
FAS IlIl will also operate in an environment that is clearly distinct from the greater part of FAS
I and 11. Angola is currently going through a transition from prolonged conflict to peace. The
changed circumstances enable FAS IlIl to expand its activities to previously inaccessible
provinces and areas and to adapt its menu of interventions to meet the changes of CDD. It
also enables FAS IlIl to play a more crucial role in the transition from post conflict emergency
to development.
FAS IlIl will continue to be co-ordinated by the FAS management institutions already
established.  FAS is an autonomous institution under the umbrella of the Ministry of
Planning. At the national level it comprises the National FAS Directorship, which consists of
an Executive Director, an Assistant Executive Director, an administration team and a central
technical team known as the National Co-ordination Unit (NCU). Overall project oversight,
including setting of FAS policy, is provided by the National Co-ordinating Committee (NCC),
which consists of representatives of key government ministries, non-governmental
institutions and civil society.
At the provincial level FAS is comprised of the Provincial FAS Directorship, with a Provincial
Director, an administration team  and a technical team.  A Provincial Co-ordinating
Committee (PCC), consisting of representatives of the provincial government, non-
governmental institutions and civil society, ensures that FAS priorities are consistent with
provincial priorities and to guarantee the involvement of line ministries in FAS activities. FAS
operates in a fully decentralised way, with each Provincial Directorship responsible for
selection and implementation of sub-projects and activities in its geographical area with
resources allocated from the centre directly to provincial accounts. Procurement activities
are also carried out at the provincial level. Operationally, the main thrust of FAS IlIl
implementation will be at the provincial level with each provincial FAS team (i.e. the FAS
Team) working with communities, municipal governments and other implementing partners.
Municipal governments comprise municipal administrations, headed by a Municipal
Administrator appointed by the central government, and municipal councils which comprise
representative of municipal departments and sections and representatives from communities
and civil society. In time, it is anticipated that the functions of the FAS Teams will be taken
Resettlement Policy Framework         2



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 111)
over by municipal governments. Social Promoters will provide the main link between the
FAS Team and the communities.
Each FAS Team will be responsible for advising on all technical decisions required to
successfully implement the civil works activities. Specifically FAS teams will:
-     advise the PCC on whether to approve the construction of a new project in a locality;
and
-     approve the selection of sites for the building of new projects based on submissions.
FAS 11 has two components that will provide social and economic infrastructure based on
communities' own identification, prioritisation, implementation and maintenance of small sub-
projects.
Component 1: Community Development Component
Using a CDD approach, the Community Development Component (CDC) will finance local
initiatives to build and restore social and economic infrastructure based on communities' own
identification, prioritisation, implementation and maintenance of small-scale sub-projects. It
will expand and improve access to the management and sustainable use of basic social and
economic infrastructure, improve governance and build social capital. Within the CDD
framework, the CDC will give increasing control over decisions and resources to community
groups and local level institutions, including local government; build organisational capacity;
and develop accountability mechanisms between communities and formal support
institutions. It will be instrumental in testing and strengthening operational modalities and
participatory planning processes which will lay the foundation for activities envisaged under
Component 11. Sub-project investments are expected to include:
i.    construction, rehabilitation or provision of basic infrastructure for health, education,
water and sanitation;
ii.   small-scale community and municipal infrastructure; and
iii.  environmental upgrading (e.g. waste management, reforestation, etc.).
Five broad categories of sub-projects have been identified for possible funding through
FAS 111. Sub-project categories and types are as follows.
-     Social - Education: Schools, kindergartens, orphanages, environmental schools,
training centres and multi-purpose social centres;
-     Social - Health: Health posts and centres, hygiene posts and maternity posts;
-     Social - Water and sanitation: Family latrines, public toilets, bath houses, water
points, wells, boreholes, water tanks, public water standpipes, simple laundry
facilities (e.g. washing slabs) and combinations of these;
-     Productive - Markets, infrastructure for bread-making (e.g. bakeries), tree nurseries,
reforestation and small livestock slaughter houses; and
-     Economic - Footpaths, roads, bridges and culverts.
The target populations are the poorer communities in rural and pern-urban areas. Municipal
administrations and other project partners with a stake in local development will also form an
integral part of the target group.
Resettlement Policy Framework         3



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1ll)
Sub-projects to be financed will be based on the communities' own identification and
prioritisation. The first requirement for a community sub-project to be considered by FAS is
to hold a community general assembly in which community problems, priorities, identification
and selection of project sites are discussed with all other interested/affected parties. Each
participating community will elect a community project committee or Nucleo Communitario
(NC) to represent the community. The NCs will consist of people who command the respect
of their communities and, together with the municipal administrations, will be the key
operational institutions in FAS IlIl implementation. The roles and responsibilities of the NC
include (but are not restricted) to:
-     representing their communities on all matters required of them regarding the project;
-     submitting an application for a project (initially to the municipal administration for
approval before being forwarded to the FAS Team);
-     in close consultation with their communities, proposing a suitable location for the
project site; and
-     acting as liaison between the FAS team, the local community and the municipal
administration during the planning and construction of the project as well as during
monitoring to ensure designed mitigation measures are respected during
construction and during operation of the project.
Sub-projects whose total value of FAS financing is below USD 100 000 will be approved
directly at the provincial level. Sub-projects exceeding that value are to be submitted to the
NCC for review, approval or rejection. To facilitate meaningful consultations, the FAS Team
and/or the intermediary agency will assist the NC by providing relevant materials and
information concerning the new sub-projects so that they are understandable and accessible
to the groups being consulted.
Component II: Municipal Development Component
The Municipal Development Component (MDC) will assist municipal governments with
capacity development and financial resources to become proficient in the provision of social
and economic services to communities. Over the implementation period of the project,
eligible and participating municipal governments will be expected to gradually take over the
various activities of the CDC sub-project cycle (i.e. sensitisation, participatory needs
assessment and approval) from FAS management. For each participating municipality a
consultative forum with representatives of government and civil society will be established
with functions and roles somewhat analogous to the NCC and PCCs. Sub-projects will
continue to be based on CDC principles but will also be based on municipal development
plans.
Based on a graduation scheme and specific eligibility criteria, the MDC will provide municipal
governments with:
i.    finance for capacity development activities;
ii.   "administrative grants" to carry out all activities of the CDC sub-project cycle with a
view to eventually developing, implementing and monitoring their municipal
development plans; and
iii.  funds, for those municipalities which are advanced in their implementation capacity,
to finance community level social and economic infrastructure sub-projects.
1.3   Preparation of the resettlement policy framework
For WB supported projects the Bank requires that any project that causes involuntary
displacement must be subject to the requirements of its Operational Policy on Involuntary
Resefflement Policy Framework        4



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1ll)
Resettlement (OP 4.12). The policy covers direct economic and social impacts that are
caused by the involuntary taking of land resulting in:
-     relocation or loss of shelter;
-     the loss of assets or access to assets important to production;
-     the loss of income sources or means of livelihood; or
-     the loss of access to locations that provide higher incomes or lower expenditures to
businesses or persons.
Displacement may, therefore, be physical, economic, social or cultural. The WB describes
these processes and outcomes as "involuntary resettlement", or simply "resettlement", even
when people are not forced to move. For the purposes of WB OP 4.12 "involuntary" is taken
to mean actions that me be taken without the displaced person's informed consent or power
of choice. Resettlement is involuntary if affected people do not have the option to retain the
status quo that they have before the project begins. WB OP 4.12 is applied whether or not
the affected persons must move to another location.
Sector-wide projects and programmes, such as FAS l1l, often involve multiple sub-projects,
some of which may require land and asset takings. Specific investment decisions are
usually made during the life of the project. Individual sub-projects are often not known at the
beginning because they are to be selected at a later date. In such cases the WB OP 4.12
requires two types of resettlement planning.
The first is a resettlement policy framework (RPF) which guides and governs the project as
sub-projects are selected for inclusion. An RPF is prepared in situations where specific
investment sites and details (i.e. individual sub-projects) are not known. It is a statement of
the policy, principles, institutional arrangements and procedures that will be followed for
each sub-project involving compensation and/or resettlement. It sets out the elements
common to all the sub-projects and allows for the principles and processes to be agreed. It,
therefore, allows project implementers, who may be in many locations, agencies or
communities, to undertake specific sub-projects without having to renegotiate fundamental
agreements. The RPF must be prepared, accepted and disclosed publicly before the WB
will appraise the project.
The second element involves individual resettlement action plans (RAPs), based on the
common policies, principles and arrangements contained in the RPF, the RPF and the RAPs
being fully complementary to one another. They are undertaken for each sub-project where
displacement will occur, once more specific details of the location and nature of the sub-
project is known. When they are required individual RAPs must be prepared and reviewed
before they are accepted for inclusion in the overall project or programme.
To assess and mitigate the potential environmental and social impacts of future CDC and
MDC sub-projects effectively an environmental and social management framework (ESMF),
which includes an environmental management plan (EMP), is being prepared. The ESMF
represents a screening process that facilitates the early identification of potential impacts
related to site selection, soil erosion, soil and water pollution and waste management as well
as operation and maintenance of sub-projects.  It outlines a process for assigning
environmental categories to the proposed sub-projects and outlines the institutional
arrangements and time horizons for the implementation of mitigation measures and the
monitoring of the implementation of these mitigation measures.
As part of the preparation of FAS IlIl an RPF is required to meet the requirements of the GOA
and the WB. Although an integral part of the EMP recommendations in the ESMF, the RPF
is presented as a separate document.
Resettlement Policy Framework        5



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 111)
For FAS III the nature and size of possible sub-projects suggests that the magnitude of
adverse environmental and social impacts will be minimal. Minor socio-economic impacts,
including the need to permanently or temporarily acquire land and productive resources
may, however, be encountered with certain sub-projects. Displacement and the subsequent
need for relocation and/or compensation, as a result of sub-project implementation, is
expected to occur only in a few exceptional cases and the degree of displacement is not
expected to be significant.
One of the criteria for sub-projects to be eligible for FAS financing is that the participating
community needs to demonstrate an officially sanctioned right to use or benefit from the land
where the facility is going to be built. In order to demonstrate or acquire such right, any
displacement (from land, resources other assets or access to assets) must be undertaken
with the proved, agreed and informed consent of any displaced person/s or entity, i.e.
displacement must be voluntary. No compulsory land acquisition will be entertained. In
cases where there is need to voluntarily relocate affected people and/or provide
replacements or compensation for losses incurred this must be arranged and implemented
locally within communities and with the municipal administrations. No sub-project will be
approved if it would require involuntary displacement or resettlement or if a grievance is
currently being filed or is unresolved.
From the experience of FAS I and 11 most communities were able to demonstrate rights over
the land on which infrastructure was to be located. In cases where an individual had the
right to use or benefit from the land in question (whether officially recognised or not) it was
usually agreed that the affected person would voluntarily cede the land (and/or assets) in
return for replacement land (and/or assets) being provided by the community or local
administration.
For FAS IlIl this RPF has been prepared to present the procedures to be followed when a
sub-project is identified as having impacts on land rights, assets or access to assets and
which will entail the voluntary ceding of land and assets by affected persons or entities in
return for replacements or other forms of restoration. Exact procedures will differ according
to local circumstances but the procedural guidelines will be incorporated in the FAS
Operational Manual.  The RPF has been generally been structured according to the
requirements of WB OP 4.12, taking into consideration that no compulsory land or asset
acquisition or involuntary resettlement is involved.  Individual sub-project RAPs will,
therefore, not be required although the RPF requires that certain planning documents and
certificates be submitted with sub-project dossiers for approval.
Consistent with the WB's Disclosure Policy, the RPF, as part of the overall ESMF and EMP
will have to be disclosed prior to appraisal. Disclosure will take place in Angola as well as in
the WB Infoshop. Thus, the GOA will disclose the document in-country while forwarding a
letter to the Bank, authorising the latter to disclose the document in the WB Infoshop.
Resettlement Policy Framework         6



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1l1)
2.    POSSIBLE ADVERSE SOCIAL IMPACTS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Although a "menu" of possible eligible types of sub-projects for FAS IlIl has been formulated
the exact nature, size and location of individual sub-projects is not known. It is therefore not
possible to predict with any degree of certainty the type and extent of any adverse social,
economic and cultural effects.
FAS IlIl sub-projects will, however, be relatively small in physical and financial terms. Given
the nature and size of the civil works it is highly unlikely that significant quantities of land will
be required for sub-project infrastructure and activities and that no or little voluntary
displacement of affected persons is likely to occur. If a particular sub-project does require
land for sub-project infrastructure and activities it is probable that the amount of land
involved will be very small. Therefore, any potential impacts regarding the land, assets and
economic activities of people living or using land in or around sub-project sites are expected
to be limited. Voluntary displacement, if any, is likely to be highly localised. On the basis of
available information, possible sub-projects and sub-project activities that may require land
to be acquired, either permanently or temporarily, and which may adversely affect assets or
livelihoods of displaced persons (DPs) are briefly described below.
2.1   Large to medium size buildings
Many FAS IlIl sub-projects are likely to involve the construction of new fairly large to medium
size buildings, such as educational facilities (e.g. schools, training centres, kindergartens,
orphanages and multi-purpose social centres) and health facilities (e.g. health posts and
centres, maternity posts and hygiene posts), or the rehabilitation of exiting structures. Most
such sub-projects may include ancillary facilities, such as water supply, sanitation, drainage,
fences and access.
The construction of new buildings will result in the loss of a certain amount of land but will, in
most instances, not lead to the permanent displacement of affected people or entities,
particularly if a building is sited on unoccupied and otherwise unclaimed land "held" by the
benefiting individual community.
Certain public or community buildings may, however, have to be constructed on land which
is being occupied or utilised, in one form or another, by other people or entities. An example
is a primary school in a rural or peri-urban area which is to be constructed on land that
currently contains residential structures or is being used by farmers for growing crops on or
by communities for grazing livestock on. In such a case the construction of the school
buildings would lead to displacement through the loss of residence, productive land, assets
or access to resources. During construction existing trees and vegetation may need to be
cut down, which will represent a permanent loss of assets to some DPs. The areas of land
involved are, however, likely to be very small and it is highly unlikely that FAS IlIl sub-projects
involving the construction of fairly large to medium size buildings will require the voluntary
acquisition of land or cause displacement. Buildings should always be sited so as to cause
as little disturbance to human activities and private property and assets as possible. Where
possible, buildings should be sited on unused public or "waste" land.
During the construction of the buildings some losses may be experienced due to the need to
acquire land for activities such as gaining access to sites, storage of construction materials
and storage of spoil. Losses might include small areas of land, crops, fruit trees, other
plants, paved areas and fences. Losses are generally expected to be mostly temporary and
are most likely to be due to damage caused by construction machinery and personnel.
The construction of buildings and, particularly, the erection of fences around buildings, may,
in certain cases, cut off traditional access routes, such as pathways and livestock routes,
Resettlement Policy Framework          7



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1ll)
and impede accessibility to locations and resources. The result is likely to be inconvenience
rather than displacement but remedial measures may need to be considered.
2.2   Small buildings and infrastructure
It is likely that most of the FAS Ill sub-projects will involve the establishment or rehabilitation
of small buildings or structures. These may include, for example, health related facilities,
sanitation facilities (e.g. family latrines, public toilets, simple laundry structures (e.g. washing
slabs), bath houses and combinations of these with other sanitation facilities or water supply
facilities) and production related infrastructure or materials (e.g. markets and market stalls),
structures for bread making (e.g. bakeries) and small livestock slaughter facilities).
The amount of land required for such facilities, and therefore any resultant voluntary
displacement, is generally likely to be minimal. During construction some losses may be
experienced due to the need to acquire land for activities such as gaining access to sites,
storage of construction materials and storage of spoil. Losses might include small areas of
land, crops, fruit trees, other plants, paved areas and fences. Losses are generally expected
to be mostly temporary and are most likely to be due to damage caused by construction
machinery and personnel. Such impacts can be minimised by careful site selection, so as to
avoid disturbance to human activities and private property and assets. Where possible, they
should be sited on unused public or "waste" land.
2.3   Water supply and distribution sub-projects
Small water supply and distribution infrastructure is most likely to include wells, boreholes
and other water supply points, with or without manual pumps. Small reticulation systems,
together with storage tanks and standpipes, may also be installed.
Such water supply systems are unlikely to take up any land of significance and they should,
as far as is possible, be located so as to cause as little disturbance to human activities and
private property and assets as possible. In the unlikely event that areas of land may need to
be compulsorily acquired, the area required is expected to be insignificant
In most cases any displacement is likely to be temporary in nature and will usually be
experienced during construction and installation due to the need to acquire land for activities
such as gaining access to sites, storage of construction materials and storage of spoil.
Losses might include small areas of land, crops, fruit trees, ornamental plants, paved areas
and fences. Such temporary losses are most likely to be due to damage caused by
construction machinery and personnel.
2.4   Tree nurseries and afforestation sub-projects
FAS Ill will support small tree nursery and afforestation sub-projects. The establishment of
nurseries requires a certain amount of land, the area required depending on the size and
nature of the nursery. However, it is unlikely that significant areas of land will be required for
tree nursery sub-projects. Nurseries generally need to be established where conditions (e.g.
the physical terrain, accessibility and water supply availability) are favourable and there may
be cases where such land is already being occupied or used by other people or entities.
Although unencumbered land should always be selected in the first instance, there may be
occasions where small areas of land have to be acquired, leading to the possible
displacement of people and assets, but only on a voluntary basis.
Afforestation and reforestation tends to involve the use of much larger areas of land although
it is not expected that such initiatives supported by FAS Ill will be very large. The location of
a planted forest is also dependant on the presence of favourable conditions, such as soil
Resettlement Policy Framework         8



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1ll)
and terrain factors. It is, therefore, possible that a community afforestation scheme could be
located on land which is being occupied or utilised, in one form or another, by other people
or entities. In some cases such land may currently be used by farmers for growing crops on
or by communities for grazing livestock on. The introduction of afforestation could, therefore,
lead to displacement through the loss of productive land, assets or access to resources.
During implementation existing trees and vegetation may need to be cut down, which could
also represent a permanent loss of these assets to some DPs.
During the establishment of tree nurseries and planted forests losses due to the need to
acquire land for activities, such as gaining access to sites, storage of construction materials
and storage of spoil, are not expected to be significant. Losses might include small areas of
land, crops, fruit trees, other plants, paved areas and fences. Losses are generally expected
to be mostly temporary and are most likely to be due to damage caused during
implementation by machinery and personnel.
Tree nursery and afforestation sub-projects may involve the erection of fences. This may, in
certain cases, cut off traditional access routes, such as pathways and livestock routes, and
impede accessibility to locations and resources. The result is likely to be inconvenience
rather than displacement but remedial measures may need to be considered.
2.5   Roads and associated infrastructure
It is envisaged that FAS IIl sub-projects will include the rehabilitation of earth feeder or
tertiary roads, footpaths, bridges and culverts. There may be a few cases where new
infrastructure needs to be provided. The construction or rehabilitation of ancillary drainage
infrastructure (e.g. drainage channels) may also be included in such sub-projects.
Rehabilitation or repair of existing roads and related structures does not usually require the
taking of additional land, although this might be a requirement in certain, unusual cases.
Some land losses may be experienced due to the need to acquire land for activities such as
gaining access to sites, storage of construction materials and storage of spoil. Losses other
than trees are generally expected to be mostly temporary, and are most likely to be due to
damage caused by construction equipment and personnel.
Where new minor roads are to be constructed land will be required for the new road and
associated infrastructure (e.g. small bridges, culverts and drainage structures). Wherever
possible such roads should be sited so as to minimise displacement or disturbance to people
and property.
Resettlement Policy Framework         9



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1l1)
3.    THE LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR LOSS OF LAND AND ASSETS
Legislation concerning land in Angola is in a state of flux and is somewhat inconsistent with
a variety of different legal instruments being applied by a number of agencies in different
circumstances and geographical areas. Land legislation is currently under review and an
"ante-project of the Land Law" is currently being discussed within the country.
The Law to Use and Benefit from Land based on a Titled Concession (the "Land Law") was
passed by the National Assembly of Angola in 1992 and determines that all the land is State
land. The right to use and benefit from land may be acquired by individuals or associations,
both national and non-national, based on the authorisation of a formal request made by the
proponent. The 1992 law allowed for individuals to purchase land from the State. However,
the processes dealing with land legislation are very bureaucratic, obscure and expensive
and it is highly probable that many occupiers and users of land in FAS IlIl sub-project areas
(e.g. in rural and peri-urban areas) do not have official title to the land that they occupy and
use. Most people in such areas rely on informal arrangements, including an unofficial land
market, to obtain title to land or to use and benefit from land. While such arrangements are
not always legally recognised they are usually recognised by communal authorities.
Land rights may be extinguished by the State in the public interest and in such cases the
land reverts to the State, However, it is incumbent upon the State to pay a fair and just
compensation.
The GOA does not have a specific resettlement policy for cases where vulnerable groups
are displaced.  Other than stating that compensation should be paid when land is
expropriated in the public interest, the Land Law does not expand on issues related to
compensation, in terms of the principles, forms, eligibility, valuation, adequacy, procedures,
timing and responsibilities.
There are no specific guidelines regarding compensation and fairness and the principles and
procedures are often drawn up and agreed to among the main stakeholders on a case by
case or individual project basis.
It is sometimes problematic when only a very small portion of a DP's land holding is required
for a development project and where the loss of this small portion does not effect the overall
viability or productivity of the whole land holding. It might be impractical or impossible to
provide alternative small parcels of land in the immediate vicinity and other forms of
compensation or restoration have to be considered.
There may be a few cases where some people are occupying and using land for which they
have no legal right of use and benefit. Such land may include, for example, total or partial
protection zones or land for which other people and bodies have legal rights of use and
benefit (i.e. rented housing and land). In some cases it may also be possible that people
have been granted land by the authorities but they do not have "authorisation" to use and
benefit from the land. However, it has been common practice to treat such cases in the
same way as people with legal rights to use and benefit from land and this is not at variance
with the WB requirement that all DPs, regardless of their tenure status, should be provided
with compensation and resettlement measures. This principle will apply to all sub-projects of
FAS l1l.
There is no explicit legal provision for DPs to appeal against levels of compensation or other
resettlement measures provided although DPs have final redress to the courts. Generally,
there are well established local mechanisms for conflict resolution amongst communities.
Resettlement Policy Framework        10



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS Ull)
Since all transfers of land and/or assets involved with FAS Ill sub-projects are to be
conducted purely on a voluntary basis the question of compulsory acquisition will not apply.
Resettlement Policy Framework              1 1



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1ll)
4.    VOLUNTARY DONATIONS OF LAND AND ASSETS FOR COMMUNITY
PROJECTS
For FAS IlIl sub-projects communities, individuals or entities may agree to provide land or
give up assets or access to assets in exchange for desired benefits. However, donations
may only be considered voluntary if the infrastructure is not location specific. For example,
infrastructure such as a school or clinic can be sited in a different location, if the land owner
or user objects. By contrast, infrastructure that is by nature is location specific, such as a
dam or reservoir, precludes voluntary donation because objectors can be coerced into
acceptance.
It is envisaged that all FAS IlIl sub-projects will not be location specific so that the possibility
of truly voluntary land donation exists. It is also expected that arrangements for voluntary
displacement will not involve any significant adverse impacts upon income or physical
displacement (or that community devised mechanisms for mitigating such adverse effects
are acceptable to those affected). In terms of WB OP 4.12 minor impacts are defined as
less than 10% of an individual's holdings.
The determination of informed consent can sometimes be difficult. The following criteria, as
outlined in the forthcoming WB Resettlement Sourcebook, are presented as guidelines to
help ensure that any donation or relinquishment of land or assets for a sub-project is done
voluntarily:
-     the infrastructure is not site specific;
-     the impacts are minor (i.e. involve no more than 10% of the area of any holding and
do not require any physical relocation;
-     the land required to meet technical project criteria is identified by the beneficiary
community, not by line agencies or project authorities (nonetheless technical
authorities can help ensure that the land is appropriate for project purposes, and that
the project will not produce health or environmental safety hazards);
-     the land in question must be free of squatters, encroachers or other claims or
encumbrances;
-     verification (e.g., notarised or witnessed statements) of the voluntary nature of land
donations must be obtained from each person donating land;
-     if any loss of income or physical displacement is envisaged, verification of voluntary
acceptance of community-devised mitigation measures must be obtained from those
to be adversely affected;
-     if community services are to be provided under the project, land title is vested in the
community, or appropriate guarantees of public access to services must be given by
the private title holder; and
-     grievance mechanisms are available.
Where applicable, these criteria will be applied to all FAS IlIl sub-projects where there is
need to acquire land through voluntary donation or relinquishment of land and/or assets for
sub-project purposes
Resettlement Policy Framework         12



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS IlI)
5.    OBJECTIVES AND PRINCIPLES FOR ASSET REPLACEMENT AND
RESTORATION
5.1   Objectives
The overall objective during the planning and implementation of FAS sub-projects is to
displace no or as few people, businesses and public bodies as possible (i.e. move people or
deprive them from resources or access to resources or deprive them from income earning
capacity or opportunities). Where displacement does occur, and such displacement is totally
voluntary, the objective is to ensure that sufficient investment resources are appropriately
allocated by participating sub-project communities to ensure that DPs are provided with:
-     adequate and appropriate replacement of assets ceded, or restoration in some other,
agreed manner; and
-     adequate and appropriate measures to enable them to relocate when physical
relocation is involved.
5.2   Principles
The following basic principles will govern preparation and implementation of all sub-projects:
-     no sub-project will be approved where a participating community cannot demonstrate
that it has the officially sanctioned right to use and benefit from the land;
-     no sub-project will be approved if a person or entity currently having rights to use or
benefit from the land in question (whether officially recognised or not) does not
voluntarily agree to cede the land or rights over the land and assets;
-     no sub-project will be approved if a grievance is currently being filed and is
unresolved;
-     alternative sub-project designs, which avoid or minimise displacement, will be
explored in all cases;
-     all possible means will be used to ensure that no people are harmed in any way by
sub-project preparation and implementation activities and sub-project outcomes; and
-     planning and implementation activities will be undertaken in participation with DPs
and other relevant project affected people who will be continuously consulted
throughout the process;
Where voluntary displacement is being considered:
-     DPs will be informed about their options and rights pertaining to displacement,
restoration and relocation and about grievance mechanisms available to them;
-     lack of legal rights to land and assets occupied or used will not preclude a DP from
entitlement to restoration and relocation measures;
-     restoration, relocation and rehabilitation measures will be as fair as possible to all
parties concerned;
Resettlement Policy Framework        13



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS Ill)
-     where restoration, in cash or kind, is provided for loss of assets, access to assets or
damage caused to assets it will be provided on the basis of full replacement cost and
will include necessary additional costs incurred to achieve full restoration;
-     where replacement land is to be provided it will have a combination of productive
potential, location advantages, accessibility, availability of services and other factors
at least equivalent to the advantages of the original site and will be as near as
possible to the original site;
-     DPs that are physically relocated will be provided with relocation assistance (such as
moving and translocation assistance) during relocation.  Where necessary or
appropriate, development assistance, such as land preparation and training, will be
made available to beneficiaries in addition to restoration and relocation measures;
-     the costs, in cash or kind, associated with replacement and restoration of losses (e.g.
provision of replacement tree seedlings or clearing and ploughing replacement land)
will be borne by the beneficiary community as negotiated with DPs; and
-     construction work will not commence until DPs have been satisfactorily provided with
replacements for assets lost and/or relocated.
Resettlement Policy Framework        14



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS Ill)
6.    PROCESS FOR DEALING WITH LAND AND ASSETS IN FAS SUB-PROJECTS
6.1   Overall responsibility
The Provincial FAS Director will be responsible for overseeing the RPF and its requirements.
Responsibility for ensuring that land and asset issues are dealt with lie with the NCs, with
assistance and input from the provincial FAS team, the Social Promoters and the municipal
administrations. Specific responsibilities are described below for each of the tasks within the
sub-project cycle.
6.2   Preliminary tasks
Before planning and implementation of the first sub-project commences the FAS NCU within
the National FAS Directorship will ensure that a number of preliminary tasks are completed.
An initial task will be for the national FAS team to design and produce standard forms and
formats to be used during sub-project planning and implementation and which will be
included in the FAS Operation Manual. These will include, for example:
-     environmental screening forms to be used to determine whether or not a sub-project
will cause displacement, in one form or another;
-     survey forms to be used, where necessary, for collecting baseline information on DPs
(or entities) and other project affected people within the footprint of the sub-project.
These forms will be used to record the manner of likely displacement, whether
physical, economic or social, and the extent of the displacement;
-     entitlement agreement contracts to be signed by DPs or entities, the NC and the MA.
These will record any final agreed measures for replacing or restoring lost assets and
relocation entitlements; and
-     entitlement receipt forms to be signed by beneficiaries, the NC and MA on receipt of
replacements or restoration for lost assets or for relocation entitlements.
6.3   Identification and selection of sub-projects
Sub-projects will be identified and selected by communities through community general
assemblies where community problems and priorities will be discussed.  Community
representative structures, such as the NC, which will be assisted by the provincial FAS team
and/or any other intermediary agency, will be responsible for submitting sub-project ideas to
the municipal administration which will then forward its list to the FAS Team and PCC. Once
a sub-project idea has been approved sub-project planning commences and a sub-project
dossier is prepared.
6.4   Environmental screening
Once a new sub-project has been identified an environmental and social screening process
will take place on the basis of the environmental and social check-list for desk-top and field
appraisal, which is completed jointly by the community, the FAS team and the NC and, in
some cases, the municipal administration.  The screening process identifies potential
environmental and social impacts of sub-project activities, including impacts on land, assets
and socio-economic activities. This process will be applied to all FAS IlIl sub-projects.
Resettlement Policy Framework        15



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS IIl)
6.5   Baseline survey
Where the screening process indicates that a sub-project may lead to displacement a
baseline survey will be undertaken to:
-     determine who (individuals, households and entities) will be potentially displaced
(physically, economically or socially) by sub-project activities;
-     determine the nature and extent of potential displacement;
-     compile a preliminary list of potential DPs (or entities) and their affected assets.
6.6   Negotiation of asset replacement or restoration measures
With assistance from the FAS team negotiations will be conducted between the DP and the
community (represented by the NC) and, where appropriate with the municipal
administration, concerning the voluntary ceding of the land and assets by the DP to the
community for the sub-project and the subsequent replacement, relocation or restoration
measure to be applied. Negotiations will include inspecting any replacement land to be
offered.
Once the details of land and other asset donation or loss have been agreed to entitlement
agreement contracts will be signed by DPs or entities, the NC and the MA. These will record
any final agreed measures for replacing or restoring lost assets and relocation entitlements.
If no agreement is reached no entitlement agreement contracts will be signed and the sub-
project, as originally proposed, will not be approved. The entitlement agreement contracts
will be included in the sub-project dossier.
6.7   Ceding and reallocation of land
Where the land is in the public domain or is officially recognised as belonging to the
community the MA will issue a certificate stating that the land to be used for the sub-project
is not encumbered. This will be included in the sub-project dossier.
Where a DP has agreed to voluntarily cede land to the project the MA will make the
necessary arrangements to have the DPs title or rights over the land officially withdrawn.
Subsequently, the MA will make arrangements for the land to be officially allocated to, and
registered in the name of, the beneficiary community or, where appropriate, service
organisation, such as the Ministry of Education in the case of a school.
Wherever possible, land that has to be acquired for FAS sub-projects will be replaced with
land of at least equal area and characteristics. Any replacement land provided to a DP who
has voluntarily ceded land for a sub-project will be officially allocated to the DP or entity and
registered in his or her name. The MA will issue a certificate, to be included in the sub-
project dossier, certifying that land required for the sub-project has been voluntarily ceded
and reallocated to the community or beneficiary organisation.
6.8   Replacement and restoration of other assets lost
In cases where a DP voluntarily agrees to giving up assets or access to assets, such as
small infrastructure, standing crops or fruit trees, or where restoration measures are needed
(e.g. clearing and ploughing of replacement land) the community, represented by the NC
and assisted by the FAS Team, will negotiate with the DP regarding measures to replace or
restore the asset (e.g. compensation in cash or kind to be provided by the community). The
nature of such restoration is likely to be highly variable from one situation to another.
Resettlement Policy Framework        16



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS Ill)
6.9   Review and approval of sub-project dossiers
With assistance from the FAS Team and other implementation partners, the NC is
responsible for preparing the sub-project dossier. Standard, nationally approved designs will
be used for infrastructure. When completed, the sub-project dossier will be submitted to the
Provincial FAS Directorship for approval by FAS and the PCC.
6.10  Delivery of entitlements
Replacement land will be provided by the community from its own resources or may be
provided from unallocated land through the municipal administration. Where assets, such as
fruit trees, are to be replaced these will also be provided by the beneficiary community,
although the method by which a community is able to provide such replacements will vary
from one situation to another. On receipt of replacement land and/or replacement or
restoration of other assets, the DP will sign an entitlement receipt form, indicating that he or
she has received the entitlements outlined in the original entitlement agreement contract and
that no further claims against the community or other parties will be made.
The MA will issue a certificate certifying that the land on which sub-project infrastructure is to
be constructed is legally in the public domain, has been allocated to the community or
beneficiary and that any previous owners or users have voluntarily given up the land and
associated assets and have been adequately and appropriately provided with replacement
land or assets and restoration measures.
6.11 Grievances
The grievance process is important in order to provide a "safety net" to ensure that land
and/or assets are voluntarily given, rather than coerced. Since the process of giving up land
and assets for FAS sub-projects must be entirely voluntary and negotiated, grievances
concerning the adequacy and appropriateness of replacement and restoration entitlements
are unlikely to be encountered. However, should a DP or other party, feel aggrieved by any
sub-project related activities or measures he or she will be able to voice a complaint. Initial
grievances will need to be initially directed to local or traditional leaders with appeal made to
the municipal administration and then to the Provincial FAS Director. It is FAS policy that if a
DP is not satisfied with any replacement or restoration measure then the sub-project will not
be approved in its present form or for the specific intended location.
All identified DPs will be informed of the grievance mechanism during the environmental and
social screening exercise or through the subsequent baseline survey.
Resettlement Policy Framework         17



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS Ill)
7.    MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Following the requirements of the WB, during compensation and restoration implementation,
and possibly for some time afterwards, both internal and external monitoring and evaluation
exercises will be carried out in order to monitor progress and ensure that DPs are
adequately catered for and are left in a position no worse off than they were prior to sub-
project commencement. Monitoring and evaluation will be part of, or be closely aligned to,
the monitoring and evaluation process agreed to for monitoring of other environmental
impacts of the sub-project. The monitoring should address the following:
-     delivery and usage of replacement, restoration and rehabilitation entitlements;
-     allocation of replacement land, where applicable;
-     reconstruction of infrastructure, where applicable;
-     compensation measures applied to cater for damage during construction activities;
-     reported grievances and action taken;
-     meetings with officials and DPs;
-     problems encountered and action taken; and
-     general issues related to the success of the asset replacement and restoration
exercise.
External monitoring will be conducted under the auspices of the overall FAS Ill project. The
main aim will be to determine whether the objectives of the asset replacement and
restoration exercise have been achieved and to assess, to the extent possible,
implementation and the restoration of the livelihoods of DPs. The external monitoring and
evaluation exercise should include, but not be limited to, evaluation of:
-     implementation progress;
-     asset replacement and restoration policies;
-     delivery of entitlements, including replacement land where applicable;
-     changes in livelihoods and incomes among DPs; and
-     consultation with and participation of DPs and other stakeholders.
Resettlement Policy Framework        18



