1
ISDS
THE l'ORLD BANK GROUP                                               AYWYro Fr, ti0 PrYnrtY
InfoShop
Report No: AC81
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/20/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ANGOLA                                  Project ID: P081558
Project: Social Action Fund Ill                  Task Team Leader: Wim H. Alberts
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 16, 2003       IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 26, 2003                    IDA Amount ($m): 55.00
Managing Unit: AFTH1                             Sector: General education sector (35%); Sanitation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  (30%); Other social services (25%); Health (10%)
Status: Lending                                 Theme: Civic engagement; participation and
community driven development (P); Conflict
prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P);
Other social protection and risk management (P);
Social risk reduction (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project development objective is to achieve improved, expanded and sustainable utilization of basic
social and economic services and to support a governance system where local government and
communities can gradually become mutually accountable. To reach that development objective, the
Third Social Action Fund (FAS III) will provide or rehabilitate social and economic infrastructure
applying a Community Driven Development (CDD) approach which will build human and social capital
within and between communities and external support agents such as local administrations and civil
society organizations. Following this approach, FAS III will provide support to a governance structure
that creates norms and networks among community members and local institutions to facilitate collective
action around common goals, with an emphasis on participation, social inclusion and mutual
accountability.
The FAS III project will build on lessons learned from FAS I and II. The FAS I project was very
successful in channeling resources and technical expertise to improve access and quality of basic social
and economic services through the provision of community based infrastructures to poor communities.
The first project had a good track record in building physical capital, but FAS I engaged less in the
process of strengthening human and social capital at the community level. FAS II had an even stronger
performance in building physical capital and started to build human and social capital of the project
partners (both at intermediary and community levels) within the framework of the project cycle.
FAS III will continue along these lines, but will make a more concerted effort, both in its design and



2
ISDS
implementation, to more closely relate investment in the three forms of capital: physical, human and
social at both community and district levels:
*      Physical capital rehabilitation is seen as a way of bringing communities together to design and
implement projects. Investment in physical capital at the community level yields tangible, visible and
immediate improvements in local living conditions, designed for the common good of the community.
Such community-based initiatives can help build trust and are important in so far as they help to sustain
confidence in the peace process.
*      Human capital entails knowledge and skills to improve individual performance. Within FAS III,
investment in human capital responds to organizational and institutional needs, and aims to develop the
capacity of community members and municipal officials to function effectively and efficiently within the
community and district organizations.
*      Social capital is understood, broadly, as the norms and networks that enable collective action. It
includes elements of community-level organizational capacity (common-interest association,
organizational skills and competencies, accountability mechanisms) and cognitive capital (trust,
reciprocity, belonging, civic identity and engagement). Investment in social capital involves bonding
forms of capital within communities and bridging forms of capital between communities and different
types of institutions. And it is particularly relevant for development where it builds on a foundation of
principles of social inclusion.
In FAS III, the investments in physical, human and social capital will be organized in a more
sharply-focused CDD framework in order to give greater control over decisions and resources to
community groups and local level institutions, including municipal government. Within this
reorientation, concepts such as participation, empowerment, civic engagement, social capital,
decentralization and sustainability need to be reconsidered, particularly in terms of the operational
implications for sub-project implementation and for the type and nature of institutional partnerships
required to enable high quality performance and positive outcomes. FAS III will focus on empowering its
partners and help build an enabling environment, in which communities, implementing partners and local
administrations will be capacitated to become the main actors of the local development process.
The longer term vision is that FAS as an institution will move out of its core project implementation
functions and transfer its responsibilities and capacities to its implementing partners at community and
district levels. The move is anticipated to be a gradual one, with enough time and resources available for
FAS to capacitate its partners. The move can only be considered to be successful in the long run, if the
partners will be able to take over most of the FAS management responsibilities in a transparent and
accountable manner. In the medium term, the role of FAS will increasingly be one of coordination,
quality control and financial intermediation.
FAS III will also operate in an environment that is clearly distinct from the greater part of FAS I and II.
Angola is currently going through a transition from prolonged conflict to peace. The changed
circumstances enable FAS to expand its activities to previously inaccessible areas and to adapt its menu
cf interventions to meet the challenges of Community Driven Development. It also enables FAS to play a
more crucial role in the transition from post conflict emergency to development.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Component I (a): Community Development (CD).   Applying a Community-Driven Development
approach, this component would finance local initiatives to build and restore social and economic



3
ISDS
infrastructure based on communities' own identification, prioritization, implementation and maintenance
of small-scale sub-projects. It will expand and improve access, management and sustainable use of basic
social and economic infrastructure, improve governance and build social capital. The CD component will
give increasing control over decisions and resources to community groups and local level institutions,
including local government; build organizational capacity, and; develop accountability mechanisms
between communities and formal support institutions. The CD component will be instrumental in testing
out and strengthening operational modalities and participatory planning processes which will lay the
foundation for activities envisaged under Components lb and II.
Sub-project investments are expected to include: (i) construction, rehabilitation or provision of the basic
infrastructure for health, education, water and sanitation; (ii) small-scale community and municipal
infrastructure, and; (iii) environmental upgrading (waste management, reforestation, etc.). FAS III will
continue to finance activities in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Operational Manual (the
project cycle has been revised based on the lessons learned during the first and second phases of FAS).
Sub-projects eligible for financing will have to meet technical, financial, economic, social and
environmental criteria as described in the Operational Manual. Procedures to be followed for targeting,
social mobilization, facilitation, appraisal, approval, implementation and monitoring of sub projects will
also be defined in the Operational Manuals (for FAS, NCs, MAs and partners).
Component I(b): Conflict Impact and Vulnerability Assessment (CIVA).  Component I (a) fosters
human capital building by bringing communities together to design and implement physical capital
rehabilitation, and by building community capacity. However, at the time of project preparation, it is
uncertain how the particularity of the post-conflict context constrains or fosters social capital building,
which is one of the principal project development objectives. In other words, it remains to be determined
which population groups have been most adversely affected by the recent conflict in terms of their ability
to escape poverty and to be involved in the participatory processes that are at the core of FAS III. A
Conflict Impact and Vulnerability Assessment (see Annex XIII for TOR) will thus be undertaken, on a
pilot basis in a total of 10 communities, to identify potential constraints to and opportunities for social
capital building. The participatory Assessment is expected to provide information on: (i) the nature and
scope of vulnerability at the community level, traditional means for assisting vulnerable community
members, and the extent to which vulnerable population groups have been able to benefit from structures
and services provided under FAS; (ii) the impact of conflict at the community level and war-affected
communities' commitment and capacity to negotiate different viewpoints and engage in truly collective
action around a common goal; and (iii) the nature and scope of community demand for targeted support
to vulnerable groups and peace building efforts.
Upon completion of the CIVA, a decision will be made by FAS management and IDA, based on the
practical guidance provided by the assessment, as to: (i) whether a sub-project window should be made
available, on a pilot basis, to respond to community demand for supportive services to assist vulnerable
groups and community reconciliation activities; and (ii) if so, what types of interventions could
realistically be supported under FAS. In light of the multi-sectoral nature of FAS activities, its significant
contribution to social capital building, and its unprecedented experience in the area of community-led
provision of basic services, FAS III would provide a unique window of opportunity for responding to
community demand for support to vulnerable groups and peace building activities.



4
ISDS
Component II: Municipal Development (MD).      The MDC will contribute towards the
achievement of the twin overall objectives of the FAS III program by assisting municipal governments
(including municipal administrations and municipal councils) with capacity development and financial
resources to become proficient in the provision of social and economic services to communities. The
Municipal Administration (MA) is the decision-making body which is headed by an Administrator who
is appointed by central government. T'he Municipal Council or Consultative Forum, which is referred to
as, Conselho de Concertacao, is an advisory body to the MA which includes representatives from
communities and civil society. Over the implementation period of the project, municipal governments
will be expected: (i) to gradually become proficient in various activities of the CD sub-project cycle (i.e.
sensitization, participatory needs assessment, appraisal, approval, etc) and take over responsibility from
FAS management; and (ii) to prepare and implement municipal level sub-projects in a phased manner
according to their own speed and implementation capacity. These municipal level projects will be
prepared based on CDD principles and based on a municipal development plan.
Based on a graduation scheme and specific eligibility criteria (as outlined in the Operational Manual), the
MD component will provide municipal governments: (i) financing for capacity development activities;
and (ii) "administrative grants" to cover their operating costs and carry out all activities of the CD
sub-project cycle with a view to eventually develop, implement and monitor their municipal development
plans. Those municipalities which are advanced in their implementation capacity (to be assessed
bi-monthly based on the municipal graduation scheme and measurable targets as outlined in Annex 2)
will be eligible for additional funds to finance social and economic infrastructure sub-projects, which
will be operated and maintained by the municipal administration.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Project activities will take place throughout the country. The exact location will depend on the type of
activity identified by the various communities based on a participatory consultation process.
B. Clteck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The Bank's policy on environmental assessment is triggered by the fact that the project would
support rehabilitation and construction of community based infrastructure with the potential of some
localized environmental impacts. An environmental management framework has been prepared to identify
mitigation measures and a specific action plan for each type of sub-project eligible for financing in order to
reduce or eliminate environmental impacts.
C. Sqfeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                   * Yes 0 No
N'atural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                           0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                              0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        0 Yes * No



5
ISDS
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                O Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Potential environmental and social impacts were identificied with regard to construction
activities.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Potential cumulative impacts include soil pollution as well as soil erosion.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The potential long-term impact would be the expansion of agricultural activities due to the return of
displaced population groups. In this context, an environmental management plan will be prepared as part
of the Environmental and Social Management Framework.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
There are no alternatives envisaged at this time. FAS, concerned line ministries, and other
entities (e.g NGOs, community groups), will enforce compliance with environmental
management procedures.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Bank's policy on Environmental Assessment is triggered by the fact that the project will support
rehabilitation of community based infrastructure ( through a participatory process) with the potential of
some localized environmental impacts. An Environmental and Social Management Framework has been
completed, (i) reviewing the project relevance to the safeguards, (ii) assessing the environmental and
social impacts of the expected subprojects, and (iii) presenting an environmental management procedure
and tools, including screening mechanisms to identify subprojects, and assessment forms, guidelines, and
management plans to integrate environmental considerations into each phase of the FAS subproject cycle
for all category of FAS funded subprojects. Both this framework and the Resettlement Policy framework
have been approved and disclosed in Angola and has been disclosed at the Bank's Infoshop on May 20,
2003.
As part of the ESMF review, two additional actions were taken to ensure full diligence in complying with
all possible safeguard requirements. First, a Resettlement Specialist assessed the potential of involuntary
resettlement in a desk and field study, which found that the proper mechanisms were in place in FAS III
procedures to ensure that involuntary resettlement will not be carried out. A Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) has been developed to further guarantee this arrangement. The RPF has been delivered
with guidelines, integrated into the Operational Manual, putting forward procedures to avoid any
resettlement when possible as well as loss of incomes and livelihoods, and to properly carry it out only
when unavoidable and voluntary. Second, an assessment of FAS III use of international aquifers was
undertaken as a measure to realize the relevance of the International Waterways Safeguard. It was
decided from the report findings and water/legal specialists' analysis, that the policy would not be



6
ISDS
triggered. Measures have been taken into the FAS III design in order to ensure that this remains the case.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Community members will participate through community meetings and initiatives instigated by FAS and
the Nucleus Groups for mobilization, participatory planning and decision-making, co-production of
services, implementation of sub-projects, participatory monitoring and evaluation, supervision of
contractors, community contribution to project costs and maintenance.
Partner civil society organizations will participate through intermediary facilitation and co-production,
and capacity development activities.
Municipal administrations (in conjunction with community groups and civil society organizations) will
participate though involvement in local participatory planning, appraisal, approval, monitoring and
maintenance. As part of the Municipal Development Component, municipal administrations will
be informed of all safeguard and environmental procedures, requirements and considerations
involved in FAS III.
Provincial and central government will participate through provincial and national oversight committees
and sector policy coordination. The Ministry of Urbanism and Environment has participated in the
environmental site review and assessment for the ESMF and is committed to the continued
enforcement and expansion of the application of the ESMF. A representative of the line ministry
is also included in the National Coordination Committee for FAS.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ S. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[  S3. - No safeguard issues
SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Ex ected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                5/14/2003     5/1 5/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            5/16/2003     5/20/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             5/14/2003     5/20/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        E      pcted  Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              5/15/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            5/15/2003     5/20/2003



7
ISDS
Date of submission to InfoShop                              5/16/2003      5/20/2003
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:               Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                  Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Wim H. Alberts                              May 20, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Serigne Omar Fyc/Person/World Bank     May 20, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt/Person/World Bank  May 20, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:  Kristine Schwebach/Person/World Bank   May 20, 2003
Approved by:                  Name                                         Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Charlotte S. Bingham                      May 20 2003
Sector Manager/Director:      Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                         May 20, 2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
StARFtCH       FEEOHACK       StE MAP       SHOWCASt      E



