PID
THEBWORLD BANK GROUP                                                    AW'o,rId Frem aI rr.vrt U
InfoShop
Report No: AB86
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                ANGOLA-Social Action Fund III
Region                      Africa Regional Office
Sector                      General education sector (35%); Sanitation (30%); Other social services
(25%); Health (10%)
Project ID                  P081558
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 GOVERNMENT OF ANGOLA
Implementing Agency         MINISTRY OF PLANNING
Address                     FAS National Coordination Unit
Address: Largo de Palazio, Caixa Postal 1205, Luanda, Angola
Contact Person: Victor Hugo Guilherme
Tel: 244 2 330191   Fax: 244 2 333835     Email:
vhugo@fas.ebonet.net
Environment Category        B
Date PID Prepared           May 20, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         May 16, 2003
Bank Approval Date          June 26, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
(i)    Poverty and Key Social Indicators: Angola ranks 161th out of 173 countries on UNDP's
Human Development Index for 2002, and the Millennium Development Goals are distant (see table 1,
page 3). Per capita income totals about US$500 per year. Over two thirds of the population live in
poverty, living below US$2 a day. Almost one in three Angolans is extremely poor, living below
US$0.75 a day. To keep the number of poor from increasing, Angola's economy would need to grow at a
rate of about 7.3% a year. Although available data indicate that urban poverty has worsened in recent
years - to a large extent due to the influx of internally displaced persons (IDPs) and economically driven
migrants - poverty is a more serious phenomenon in rural areas. Angola's social indicators are among the
worst in the world. Malnutrition is acute, life expectancy stands at 47 years. One of every six children
born never reaches his or her fifth birthday. Primary school enrollment is among the lowest in Africa.
The poor access to education has left 70 percent of adult men and 80 percent of women unable to read,
write, or perform basic computations.
Government Strategy: The interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper(I-PRSP). The Government's
draft interim PRSP proposes actions which can be summarized along five broad themes:
*   Undertaking economic and institutional reform (particularly in public finance and administration) to
promote macroeconomic stability and sustainable growth;



2
PID
*   Expanding the human capital base, by strengthening and restructuring professional training as well as
the delivery of health and education services;
*   Rehabilitating social and economic infrastructure, concentrating on water supply, housing,
electricity, transportation and communication;
*   Promoting pro-poor growth through rural development, artisanal fishing, and small and micro
enterprises, with a focus on private sector development;
*   Strengthening public sector capacity and institutions, including at the provincial and local levels
(through restructuring and deconcentration).
The I-PRSP contains elements of a program of consultations with civil society, a summary of
interventions at the sectoral level, and a preliminary monitoring and evaluation strategy, but the required
three-year macroeconomic framework is not yet available. In light of the ceasefire agreement, the
I-PRSP is being revised to focus on a few areas where real improvements can be made in the short run.
The Government plans to complete a fully costed I-PRSP in mid-2003.
(ii)   Increasing the Coverage and Improving Quality of Basic Social Services: Government
expenditures in the social sectors have been traditionally low, and they declined sharply after 1991 as
military expenditures grew to absorb a large part of the budget. The reduction of allocations for
education and health resulted in a serious deterioration of the service delivery systems. In the period
1997-2001 the average health and education share allocations of the Government's recurrent budget
reached only 3.3 and 4.7 percent respectively. This compares negatively with the SADC sub-region
averages for: health (7.2 percent) and education (16.7 percent). The social sector budget allocations in
neighboring countries such as Zambia (7.1 and 9.6 percent), Zimbabwe (9.2 and 23 percent), Namibia
(10.3 and 24.3 percent) and Botswana (5.4 and 23.1 percent) are much higher than in Angola. The budget
allocations to the social sectors are expected to be increased substantially under the I-PRSP. The
Government intends to finance operating and recurrent costs through these increased allocations.
Government Strategy: Rebuilding social infrastructure. Revitalizing the economy at the community
level is critically important to successful reconstruction, and providing Angola's population with access
to health, education and other basic services is undoubtedly the most urgent need in Angola today. To
this end, the Government aims to re-establish state administration across the country and rehabilitate or
build basic social and economic infrastructure (such as schools, clinics, and markets).
(iii)  Risk and Vulnerability: A household is assumed to be vulnerable if its capacity to cope with a
shock or risk is severely compromised to a degree where it is forced into poverty or unable to move out
of poverty. Vulnerability thus depends on a household's types of assets (natural, physical, financial,
human, and social) as well as its exposure to risks, i.e. uncertain events that adversely affect people's
well-being. Risk exposure depends on the nature, frequency and severity of shocks such as health risks,
economic shocks, social shocks, natural disasters, and lifecycle-related shocks. In Angola, the most likely
causes of vulnerability include food insecurity due to inadequate harvests; limited assets and sources of
income; lack of access to markets and basic social services; overstretched, inelastic and/or maladaptive
coping mechanisms; increasing prevalence of HIV/AIDS; disability as a result of war-related injuries and
land mine exposure; and compromised social fabrics as a result of displacement and intense competition
over scarce resources.
Government Strategies:
a      The Post-Conflict Reconstruction Program: As part of the I-PRSP, the Government, with
technical assistance from the Bank, is preparing a post-conflict Rehabilitation and Reconstruction



3
PID
Program (PCRRP), which is divided into two phases. The first 'priority' phase, which will be
implemented over 2003 to 2005, will be part of the interim PRSP and will focus on consolidating the
peace and reestablishing state administration throughout the country. The Government expects to appeal
to donors for support for this program at a conference to be held in late 2003. The PCRRP and FAS are
complementary programs from the Government point of view, as funding comes from different sources.
*      Poverty alleviation programs: To date, GOA has three multilateral poverty alleviation
programs: (i) the Community Rehabilitation Program (PRC) financed by the European Union and UNDP;
(ii) the Angola Social Action Fund (FAS) financed by the World Bank; and (iii) the Rehabilitation
Support Program (PAR) financed by the European Union. These programs have similar mandates but
differ in scope. Their overall objective is to target the poorest communities by providing access to
sustainable basic social infrastructure, and promoting economic and productive activities. FAS and PAR
are currently the most visible and reach most beneficiaries.
(iv)   Social Reintegration and Reconstruction of Social Capital: Twenty seven years of civil
conflict in Angola had a devastating effect on the country's social capital. The impact of the lengthy
conflict is profound and resentments run deep. The costs of the conflict are very high in terms of damage
to institutions of governance and civil society and such basic attitudes and behaviors as trust and
participation. The conflict has militarized life in Angola and disrupted existing social organizations. In
light of the national reconciliation and reconstruction process, there is thus an urgent need to empower
communities and individual community members to organize themselves to solve their problems and
focus on trust building.
Government Strategy: Social Reintegration. The GOA is trying to address the social reintegration
issue through: (i) FAS, PRC and PAR which are linked to the Ministry of Planning; and (ii) The
Post-Conflict Social Reintegration Strategy, which is linked to MINARS. In an attempt to maximize the
impact of its interventions, GOA has made greater efforts to coordinate the implementation of its
programs at the national level. The objectives of the Government's post-conflict social reintegration
strategy include: (i) strengthening the dialogue and joint decision making between civil society and
government agencies to promote democratization and human development; (ii) promotion of a social
reconciliation process through economic and social integration of previously excluded vulnerable
population groups; (iii) stimulating economic growth of communities directly affected by the conflict
with a view to increasing their potential for community self-reliance; and (iv) promoting social
normalization, a culture of tolerance and peaceful coexistence especially in communities receiving
returning populations.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to achieve improved, expanded and sustainable utilization of basic
social and economic services and to support a governance system where local government and
communities can gradually become mutually accountable. To reach that development objective, the
Third Social Action Fund (FAS 111) will provide or rehabilitate social and economic infrastructure
applying a Community Driven Development (CDD) approach which will build human and social capital
within and between communities and external support agents such as local administrations and civil
society organizations. Following this approach, FAS III will provide support to a governance structure
that creates norms and networks among community members and local institutions to facilitate collective
action around common goals, with an emphasis on participation, social inclusion and mutual
accountability.
The FAS III project will build on lessons learned from FAS I and II. The FAS I project was very
successful in channeling resources and technical expertise to improve access and quality of basic social



4
PID
and economic services through the provision of community based infrastructures to poor communities.
The first project had a good track record in building physical capital, but FAS I engaged less in the
process of strengthening human and social capital at the community level. FAS II had an even stronger
performance in building physical capital and started to build human and social capital of the project
partners (both at intermediary and community levels) within the framework of the project cycle.
FAS III will continue along these lines, but will make a more concerted effort, both in its design and
implementation, to more closely relate investment in the three forms of capital: physical, human and
social at both community and district levels:
*      Physical capital rehabilitation is seen as a way of bringing communities together to design and
implement projects. Investment in physical capital at the community level yields tangible, visible and
immediate improvements in local living conditions, designed for the common good of the community.
Such community-based initiatives can help build trust and are important in so far as they help to sustain
confidence in the peace process.
*      Human capital entails knowledge and skills to improve individual performance. Within FAS III,
investment in human capital responds to organizational and institutional needs, and aims to develop the
capacity of community members and municipal officials to function effectively and efficiently within the
community and district organizations.
*      Social capital is understood, broadly, as the norms and networks that enable collective action. It
includes elements of community-level organizational capacity (common-interest association,
organizational skills and competencies, accountability mechanisms) and cognitive capital (trust,
reciprocity, belonging, civic identity and engagement). Investment in social capital involves bonding
forms of capital within communities and bridging forms of capital between communities and different
types of institutions. And it is particularly relevant for development where it builds on a foundation of
principles of social inclusion.
In FAS III, the investments in physical, human and social capital will be organized in a more
sharply-focused CDD framework in order to give greater control over decisions and resources to
community groups and local level institutions, including municipal government. Within this
reorientation, concepts such as participation, empowerment, civic engagement, social capital,
decentralization and sustainability need to be reconsidered, particularly in terms of the operational
implications for sub-project implementation and for the type and nature of institutional partnerships
required to enable high quality performance and positive outcomes. FAS III will focus on empowering its
partners and help build an enabling environment, in which communities, implementing partners and local
administrations will be capacitated to become the main actors of the local development process.
The longer term vision is that FAS as an institution will move out of its core project implementation
functions and transfer its responsibilities and capacities to its implementing partners at community and
district levels. The move is anticipated to be a gradual one, with enough time and resources available for
FAS to capacitate its partners. The move can only be considered to be successful in the long run, if the
partners will be able to take over most of the FAS management responsibilities in a transparent and
accountable manner. In the medium term, the role of FAS will increasingly be one of coordination,
quality control and financial intermediation.
FAS III will also operate in an environment that is clearly distinct from the greater part of FAS I and II.
Angola is currently going through a transition from prolonged conflict to peace. The changed



5
PID
circumstances enable FAS to expand its activities to previously inaccessible areas and to adapt its menu
of interventions to meet the challenges of Community Driven Development. It also enables FAS to play a
more crucial role in the transition from post conflict emergency to development.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank will bring its experiences of over 30 years on social funds as well as its expertise in supporting
decentralization processes more specifically strengthening local institutional capacity. The Bank has
traditionally played a leadership role in poverty alleviation programs in Angola, and hopes to use its
favorable position in the country and sector to leverage financial resources from a number of bi-lateral
donors, private sector and government, and to bring together various implementers to work under one
implementation framework
4. Description
Component I (a): Community Development (CD).  Applying a Community-Driven Development
approach, this component would finance local initiatives to build and restore social and economic
infrastructure based on communities' own identification, prioritization, implementation and maintenance
of small-scale sub-projects. It will expand and improve access, management and sustainable use of basic
social and economic infrastructure, improve governance and build social capital. The CD component will
give increasing control over decisions and resources to community groups and local level institutions,
including local government; build organizational capacity, and; develop accountability mechanisms
between communities and formal support institutions. The CD component will be instrumental in testing
out and strengthening operational modalities and participatory planning processes which will lay the
foundation for activities envisaged under Components lb and II.
Sub-project investments are expected to include: (i) construction, rehabilitation or provision of the basic
infrastructure for health, education, water and sanitation; (ii) small-scale community and municipal
infrastructure, and; (iii) environmental upgrading (waste management, reforestation, etc.). FAS III will
continue to finance activities in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Operational Manual (the
project cycle has been revised based on the lessons learned during the first and second phases of FAS).
Sub-projects eligible for financing will have to meet technical, financial, economic, social and
environmental criteria as described in the Operational Manual. Procedures to be followed for targeting,
social mobilization, facilitation, appraisal, approval, implementation and monitoring of sub projects will
also be defined in the Operational Manuals (for FAS, NCs, MAs and partners).
Component I(b): Conflict Impact and Vulnerability Assessment (CIVA).  Component I (a) fosters
human capital building by bringing communities together to design and implement physical capital
rehabilitation, and by building community capacity. However, at the time of project preparation, it is
uncertain how the particularity of the post-conflict context constrains or fosters social capital building,
which is one of the principal project development objectives. In other words, it remains to be determined
which population groups have been most adversely affected by the recent conflict in terms of their ability
to escape poverty and to be involved in the participatory processes that are at the core of FAS III. A
Conflict Impact and Vulnerability Assessment (see Annex XIII for TOR) will thus be undertaken, on a
pilot basis in a total of 10 communities, to identify potential constraints to and opportunities for social
capital building. The participatory Assessment is expected to provide information on: (i) the nature and
scope of vulnerability at the community level, traditional means for assisting vulnerable community
members, and the extent to which vulnerable population groups have been able to benefit from structures
and services provided under FAS; (ii) the impact of conflict at the community level and war-affected
communities' commitment and capacity to negotiate different viewpoints and engage in truly collective
action around a common goal; and (iii) the nature and scope of community demand for targeted support
to vulnerable groups and peace building efforts.



6
PID
Upon completion of the CIVA, a decision will be made by FAS management and IDA, based on the
practical guidance provided by the assessment, as to: (i) whether a sub-project window should be made
available, on a pilot basis, to respond to community demand for supportive services to assist vulnerable
groups and community reconciliation activities; and (ii) if so, what types of interventions could
realistically be supported under FAS. In light of the multi-sectoral nature of FAS activities, its significant
contribution to social capital building, and its unprecedented experience in the area of community-led
provision of basic services, FAS III would provide a unique window of opportunity for responding to
community demand for support to vulnerable groups and peace building activities.
Component II: Municipal Development (MD).      The MDC will contribute towards the
achievement of the twin overall objectives of the FAS III program by assisting municipal governments
(including municipal administrations and municipal councils) with capacity development and financial
resources to become proficient in the provision of social and economic services to communities. The
Municipal Administration (MA) is the decision-making body which is headed by an Administrator who
is appointed by central government. The Municipal Council or Consultative Forum, which is referred to
as, Conselho de Concertacao, is an advisory body to the MA which includes representatives from
communities and civil society. Over the implementation period of the project, municipal governments
will be expected: (i) to gradually become proficient in various activities of the CD sub-project cycle (i.e.
sensitization, participatory needs assessment, appraisal, approval, etc) and take over responsibility from
FAS management; and (ii) to prepare and implement municipal level sub-projects in a phased manner
according to their own speed and implementation capacity. These municipal level projects will be
prepared based on CDD principles and based on a municipal development plan.
Based on a graduation scheme and specific eligibility criteria (as outlined in the Operational Manual), the
MD component will provide municipal governments: (i) financing for capacity development activities;
and (ii) "administrative grants" to cover their operating costs and carry out all activities of the CD
sub-project cycle with a view to eventually develop, implement and monitor their municipal development
plans. Those municipalities which are advanced in their implementation capacity (to be assessed
bi-monthly based on the municipal graduation scheme and measurable targets as outlined in Annex 2)
will be eligible for additional funds to finance social and economic infrastructure sub-projects, which
will be operated and maintained by the municipal administration.
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER                   $8.25
IBRD
IDA                        $55.00
EC: EUROPEAN COMMISSION           $50.00
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED) $6.75
Total Project Cost         $120.00
6. Implementation
FAS will retain its core institutional and implementation arrangements, as described in the revised
Operational Manual. During project appraisal, the document has been revised to include the
implementation arrangements for the new components and to incorporate the arrangements that will
accommodate the implementation of the broader strategic objective of strengthening the three types of
capital (physical, human and social). Some of the project's main features will also be modified, based on
lessons learned, to maximize efficiency and effectiveness in implementation.



7
PID
Implementation Period: Three/Four years (depending on EU contribution).
Executing Agency and its Structure: FAS is an autonomous institution created by the GOA with
Presidential Decree n. 44/94 to support the government in fighting poverty. It is under the umbrella of
the Ministry of Planning and has been granted a high degree of autonomy concerning administrative,
financial and management procedures. It currently consists of a central management unit and 9 provincial
offices. The fund operates in a fully decentralized way, with each provincial office responsible for
selection and implementation of activities within its geographical area, and with resources allocated from
the center directly to provincial accounts. Procurement activities are also carried out at the provincial
level. FAS has a National Board of Overseers, which includes representatives from governmental, as
well as non-governmental institutions and civil society. The Board ensures that the activities financed by
the fund respond to the objectives for which it was created. Another Board, similar in structure and
composition, operates at each province level to ensure that FAS priorities are consistent with provincial
priorities, and to guarantee the involvement of line-ministries in the fund's activities. Detailed
information on the FAS institutional structure is provided in the revised Operational Manual.
The geographic expansion of FAS will be facilitated through a concurrent gradual expansion of the
institutional structure. In the new provinces the project is planning to open up new FAS offices, which
will either be managed by FAS staff or through antenna organizations (NGO's/ firms that will function as
a provincial FAS office). In the expansion of the institutional structure, FAS is also considering to open
up regional offices, which would cover more than one province. The regional offices are expected to
operate with district project officers, which would cover more than one district. The development of the
expansion work plan and the required changes in the institutional structure will be based on an
assessment of the demand for FAS intervention, cost of the expansion logistics, availability of resources
in addition to IDA, human resource requirements, availability of certain basic infrastructure and of
implementation partners, as well as FAS and partner's human, organziational and institutional capacity.
Main Implementation Arrangements: For the CD component, FAS III will retain the institutional and
implementation arrangements that have applied in FAS II, although greater attention will be applied to
the collaborative planning exercises to be carried out in conjunction with local administration (including
preparation, appraisal/approval, supervision and monitoring and evaluation). This will provide an
important foundation for implementation arrangements envisaged for the MD Component.
The FAS project cycle - as described in detail in the Operational Manual - stipulates arrangements for
eight phases, namely: (i) planning and promotion; (ii) identification; (iii) preparation; (iv) appraisal and
approval; (v) execution; (vi) supervision; (vii) handover; and (viii) evaluation. In order to be eligible for
FAS support, a community needs to have established a Nucleo Comunitario (NC) which will have
responsibility for community mobilization, planning, preparation and implementation of sub-projects.
The MD component will primarily be executed by municipal administrations and municipal councils
(Consultative Forum/Conselho do Concertacao) with technical and logistic support from FAS central and
provincial management teams, partner organizations such as NGOs, other service providers and
participation from communities and civil society. Different municipal administrations are expected to be
at different Levels of the graduation scheme towards assuming full responsibility of preparation and
implementation of community development projects by the end of the four year program. During the
program implementation period, FAS management, at each level of the graduation scheme, will transfer
more of its implementation responsibilities onto the Mas. FAS will therefore become more of a
facilitator, supervisor providing funds, logistics, technical support and quality control to the local
development process. FAS provincial staff will be the direct link with the MAs and will be responsible



8
PID
for supervision and follow-up on day-to-day implementation. During this devolution process, provincial
administrations and partner organizations are also expected to provide technical support to MAs.
Capacity building is expected to be provided by a number of service providers under the guidance of FAS
management on a regional basis. Further details of the implementation arrangements are elaborated in the
Operational Manual and reflected in the Municipal Graduation Scheme.
The MD component will be overseen by a Provincial Coordination Committee (in which FAS will be
included) which will provide advice to municipal administrations on their development activities and
ensure that municipal development plans are incorporated into provincial and national plans and that
sustainability of development activities at the local levels are ensured. Municipal administrations will be
expected to provide regular progress reports to this committee at quarterly meetings.
Financial Management: During appraisal, the Bank mission reviewed the FAS financial management
system (FMS) to determine whether the financial management arrangements, including the systems of
accounting, reporting, auditing, and internal controls are acceptable and provide the National
Coordination Unit and IDA with accurate and timely information regarding resources and expenditures.
The FMS review took into account the new risks involved with the expansion of activities and the
involvement of municipalities planned for FAS 111.
The current financial management software is considered capable of recording correctly all transactions
and balances, supporting the preparation of regular and reliable financial statements. However, the FMS
has not been able, so far, to produce Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) in accordance with Bank's
requirements. Before Effectiveness, therefore, a financial management software acceptable by the Bank
needs to be put in place and FAS staff needs to be adequately trained.
FAS does not have any certified accountant staff, however, the FAS financial and accounting staff do
have valuable practical experience of the Bank's FMS requirements and also of the financial
management systems and capacities in the provincial offices. For FAS III, it is expected that the financial
management workload will increase considerably and that the transfer of financial management
responsibilities to municipal authorities furthermore entails an increased risk due to the lack of FMS
capacity at the municipal level. Before Effectiveness, therefore, FAS III needs to enhance its financial
management system and include more stringent internal controls. The FMS needs to be strengthened by
the recruitment of a certified accountant as financial controller and FAS needs to put in place an internal
control function (financial and technical audit), which will report to the National Board of Overseers.
The responsibilities of the internal audit will include, but are not limited to, the audit of subprojects
financed by IDA funds.
The FAS II operational manual does not address all the required financial management and internal
control issues. Therefore, before Effectiveness, the project financial management system needs to be
updated and fully documented in project-specific Financial Management Procedural Manuals, which will
cover financial policies and procedures, accounting and internal control system, financial reporting, flow
of funds and auditing arrangements. The Manuals need to address all these arrangements at central,
provincial and municipality levels. The Manuals will also include the terms of reference of the financial
management staff and the auditors.
Accounting: FAS will maintain the accounting records for the entire project. It will also be responsible
for the effective and timely production of the annual financial statements as well as the FMRs according
to Bank's requirements. Before Effectiveness, an IDA financial management specialist will carry an
assessment of the project financial management system to ensure its soundness and capability to provide



9
PID
accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures.
Audit arrangements: Qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed on approved
terms of reference. The external audit will cover all IDA funds, World Bank administered funds (such as
trust funds), bilateral and private sector contributions, and Counterpart funds. The IDA Credit Agreement
will require the submission of audited financial statements to the Bank within six months after the
year-end. The formats to be adopted will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
Besides expressing a primary opinion on the audited financial statements in compliance with
International Auditing Standards, the auditor will be required to include a separate paragraph
commenting on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under SOE procedures and the
extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for loan disbursements. Regarding the Special
Accounts, the auditor will also be expected to form an opinion as to the degree of compliance with World
Bank procedures and the balances at the year-end. In addition to the audit report, the auditor will be
required to prepare a separate Management Letter giving observations and comments, and providing
recommendations for improvements of accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with
financial covenants in the IDA Agreement.
Procurement. The FAS III Project is the continuation of two previous IDA financed projects and will
count on experienced procurement staff familiar with Bank procedures and documentation. This implies
better planning capacity and faster inception of implementation activities. As a consequence, higher
monetary thresholds than those used in the FAS I and II project have been proposed for simpler
procurement methods such as shopping thus reducing the number of procurement actions subject to prior
review. In sum, a better performance and transparency is expected under FAS III.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The objective of monitoring and evaluation is the establishment of
complimentary learning cycles within the FAS program in order to both maximize the quality and outputs
of knowledge and feedback on FAS-supported initiatives and to build capacities and ownership amongst
different stakeholders in the process. A principal outcome of a successful M&E system is the
improvement of mutual accountability between different stakeholders. A more comprehensive yet
streamlined M&E system will therefore be critical for FAS III. The M&E system for FAS III will
integrate participatory qualitative approaches with more quantitative ones. M&E is seen as a continuous
activity, which will focus on measuring and controlling performance in project execution, as well as on
systematically collecting data on the impact of project activities on the direct beneficiaries. It will be
used for ongoing decision-making, re-planning and adjusting, and forward planning.
The Management Information System in FAS (SIFAS) is designed to monitor physical progress and
outcomes and link them to financial expenditures. SIFAS is expected to provide information on the
overall performance of FAS at a provincial and national level. Key monitoring indicators will include:
*   Qualitative process indicators (mobilization, quality of participatory planning, decision-making,
levels of satisfaction and perceptions of quality, etc.);
*   Business process indicators (duration of each stage of sub-project processing; time lapse from receipt
of sub-project application by NC to start of implementation; duration of project implementation);
*   Input/Output Indicators (number of sub-project proposals submitted; number and cost of sub-projects
approved; number of sub-projects implemented (planned vs actual); number of NCs established and
trained; number of launch workshops staged; number of beneficiaries);
*   Outcome/impact indicators (perceptions of impact, quality, utility and satisfaction; maintenance and
sustainability likelihood; impacts on community, family, individual; relations)



10
PID
Supervision: IDA will undertake full supervision missions semi-annually, and interim reviews will be
undertaken every second quarter. The Mid-term Review of the project is scheduled to be conducted
18/24 months after Effectiveness.
7. Sustainability
Angola is experiencing an important moment in its history due to the end of conflict. This offers
unprecedented prospects for FAS III achieving its development objectives. Within the present context of
peace, the present synergy among the public sector and civil society organizations to rebuild social
capital in Angola seem to be particularly relevant to the sustainability of FAS III.
On the project, the experience acquired by FAS staff over the last 10 years in designing and delivering
basic social and economic infrastructure to the poor should be highlighted as an asset. FAS has been
successful not only in organizing community members to better articulate their demands, but also in
establishing accountable mechanisms for the delivery and management of those required public goods.
A key element to the sustainability of FAS activities is the strong focus on enhancing the capacity of
concerned stakeholders and FAS staff along the whole project cycle. In order to strengthen the existing
skills, competences and abilities, and also to address the new challenges ahead, FAS III will prioritize
capacity development as a cross-cutting and strategic framework for action (as detailed in Annex 11).
Furthermore, FAS III will focus on supporting capacity development specifically in Municipal
Administrations, through the Municipal Development Component, in order to further ensure the long
term management and provision of basic social and economic services. FAS III will build on experience
in FAS I and II in preparing and operationalizing the project. These inputs and activities will be
incorporated and improved along five main aspects, which have been identified as critical to project
sustainability:
Regarding technical quality of appraisal and design, FAS III will:
* Revise Operational Manuals, simplify documentation and bureaucracy in project cycle;
* Develop and disseminate standard manuals on disbursement, procurement, and subproject designs
into communities and implementing partners;
* Incorporate a Participatory M&E system in the subproject cycle and systematize learning flows in
project implementation;
* Revise and upgrade a technical checklist for quality control;
* Develop and carry out a bimonthly assessment to measure MA capacity and to evaluate the extent of
adherence to established regulations and guidelines;
* Ensure that project dossiers are also reviewed by line ministries in relevant provinces.
Regarding maintenance of the social and economic infrastructure, FAS III will:
* Introduce maintenance plans (activities, timeframes, responsibilities and budget), including an
Environmental and Social Management Plan, at approval level;
* Establish co-sharing mechanisms for maintenance between communities and MAs;
* Develop a maintenance checklist for quality assurance;
* Improve communities capacity for routine maintenance of the infrastructure installed.
Regarding timely financing of recurrent costs and operational inputs, FAS III will:
* Delineate roles and responsibilities for the operation and management of infrastructure among
communities, NG, MA, line ministries and FAS;
*   Include signed agreements with implementing partners (GOA, MAs, NGOs, churches, firms) to
ensure financing of recurrent costs and operational inputs in the subproject approval process, as a
condition for appraisal;



11
PID
*   Appraise all subprojects for financial sustainability;
*   Expect beneficiaries to contribute at least 10 percent of total costs;
*   Respond to the demands for subprojects from those implementing partners who have committed for
operational support;
*   Strengthen the capacity among communities, implementing partners and MAs to manage and operate
the infrastructure implemented.
Regarding community participation, FAS III will:
*   Enforce community members involvement in the entire project cycle and maintenance;
*   Introduce Social Promoters at the community level to further facilitate information and knowledge
exchange between the NGs and FAS and/or municipal administrations.
*   Enforce the role of the NG as the anchor of FAS mobilization and implementation efforts in the
communities;
*   Establish Consultative Forums at the municipal level to (i) further ensure community participation
and approval throughout the project process and to (ii) create a recognized arena for dialogue
between the community and the municipal administration.
*   Integrate community priorities into municipal development plans and budget;
*   Strengthen capacity, through training and tools, for participatory planning among MAs, NGs and
implementing partners.
Regarding strategic partnerships, FAS 11 will:
*   Ensure subprojects linkages with sectoral policies and other development programs at different
government levels to guarantee integrated development;
*   Require the development of a Municipal Development Plan as the foundation for selected
subprojects led within the MDC.
*   Define and implement mechanisms for responsibility and cost sharing among communities, MAs and
implementing partners;
*   Build a dynamic knowledge base to document and disseminate the subprojects experiences, lessons
and impacts among all stakeholders;
*   Enhance individual, organizational, and institutional skills, competences and abilities at community,
implementing partner and municipal levels.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design reflects lessons learned from intemational experience with social investment funds
(SIF) and CDD operations, SIFs and decentralization as well as from implementing FAS I and 11. The
following are among the relevant lessons learned:
International experience indicates thiat the success of socialfunds and CDD programs are contingent
upon:
*   transparency and accountability, which are bolstered by clear resource allocation criteria and
operational guidelines, reliable independent audits and evaluations, an effective management
information system, and vigilant supervision by external financing agencies;
* operational efficiency;
* clear, simple and understandable procurement and disbursement procedures;
*   competitive salaries and freedom from normal government recruitment to ensure that the most
competent staff are recruited and kept;
*   proper targeting mechanisms;
*   integration of environmental concerns in individual sub-projects;



12
PID
*   capitalizing on monitoring and evaluation systems, including beneficiary and social assessments to
quickly adjust operating procedures to respond to beneficiary concerns;
*   clear objectives and consistency with national development strategies;
*   evolution of the role of socialfunds from infrastructure providers to agents of change building social
capital and shaping local development processes.
Lessons on the role of socialfunds in the decentralization process:
*   The experience to date indicates that social funds can help build demand for effective
decentralization by strengthening the core capacities and processes and by building mutual
accountability mechanisms among local stakeholders/institutions (i.e. local governments,
communities, civil society, etc.), however, without the actual institutional and fiscal devolution of
authority and resources to local levels in due course, it is not very likely that the social fund efforts
will be sustainable in the long term.
*   In countries where a decentralization policy is not yet in place or where it is not fully implemented,
the process of local government strengthening, or more specifically assisting them to become
competent with community driven development principles requires a careful and timely roll-out of
well monitored activities to mitigate against weak institutional capacities (staff, equipment, legal
mandate, etc). Thus, the expectations out of a social fund supporting these processes should be
realistic and not overly ambitious.
FAS I and H lessons:
*   Policy coordination at the national and provincial level to ensure consistency and sustainability:
FAS I and II experiences indicate the need to strengthen the coordination mechanisms at the national
and provincial levels, namely with other poverty alleviation programs, the I-PRSP, inter-ministerial,
to ensure consistency and complementarity among various implementers and sustainability of the
social and economic infrastructure built and processes put in place by FAS and similar programs.
*   Need to strengthen partnerships at the local and national level and transfer skills. through
knowledge management, and dissemination of experiences among provinces, municipalities and
communities; more frequent training, seminars and workshops; gradual transfer of responsibilities
along the sub-project cycle; and change of FAS role into more institutional impact on municipal
governance structures, contributing to promote accountable and demand-driven local development
processes.
*   Building social capital at the local levelfor better allocation and rnanagement of resources: Need to
better integrate the CDD approach into the implementation processes of FAS to build a consultative
decision-making environment at the local level including local governments, communities and other
stakeholders.
*   Importance of creating transparent management mechanisms: such as monitoring and evaluation,
procurement, financial management, project management to ensure sustainability of assets created.
*   Standardization of subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs: Standardization
simplifies the subproject preparation and evaluation process, improves the quality of subprojects,
facilitates the procurement of goods and works, prevents over-design and enables participation by



13
PID
poorer communities.
* Environmental Protection Criteria: Because of their small scale, most subprojects do not have a
significant effect on the environment. Nevertheless, a detailed environmental checklist was
developed and has been updated.
* Sustainability and Maintenance: should be strengthened through (i) the creation of maintenance
support committees early in the sub-project cycle, in parallel to the provision of skills enhancement
to communities and MAs concerning their roles and responsibilities, (ii) experimentation with
preventive maintenance funds, and improved coordination with sector ministries, provincial
governments and better alignment with national poverty alleviation programs.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation
(including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this
analysis.
An Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) is needed because the project will
support rehabilitation of community-based infrastructure (through a participatory mechanism) with the
potential of some localized environmental impacts. This infrastructure includes sectors such as health,
education, water and sanitation, as well as limited waste management and reforestation. Key stakeholders
include community members, who will participate through community meetings and initiatives instigated
by FAS and the Nucleus Groups for mobilization, participatory planning and decision-making,
co-production of services, implementation of sub-projects, participatory monitoring and evaluation,
supervision of contractors, community contribution of costs, and operational maintenance.
An Environmental Assessment was carried out during March and April 2003 by external consultants
resulting in an Environmental and Social Management Framework, including a Resettlement Policy
Framework. The ESMF consists of (i) an assessment of the environmental and social impacts of the
anticipated subprojects, (ii) proactive environmental guidelines, which include an environmental and
social management plan, for each category of subproject funded under FAS III not requiring an EA, and a
screening process for subprojects requiring EA, (iii) an assessment of the capacity of the provincial
offices of FAS III to conduct environmental mitigation measures, (iv) a monitoring plan to track potential
environmental impacts of subprojects, and (v) a review of the legislative framework and a proposal of
appropriate arrangements for FAS III regarding environmental and social management and assessment.
The Ministry of Urbanism and Environment has been included in the Environmental Assessment process
and is in the process of disclosing the findings. In addition to disclosure from the Ministry, all municipal
administrations and communities benefiting from subprojects will be informed of the ESMF and any
resulting monitoring and mitigation responsibilities, as a condition for subproject approval.
10. List of factual technical documents:



14
PID
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Wim H. Alberts
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-8484
Fax: 202-473-8299
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending:  03/20/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH         FEEDBACK      SWE MAP       SWOWCASE



