Angolc Social Action Fund (FAS 1ll)
Resettlement Policy Framework
Angola Social Action Fund III (FAS 111)
RP1 59
Prepared on behalf of the FAS
(Angola) and the World Bank
May 2003
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f- 
________                 FILE    C    P
Relseement Policy Frameworl



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1ll)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION                                                             I
1.1 Background to the project                                           1
1.2 Summary description of the project                                  2
1.3 Preparation of the'resettlement policy framework                    4
2. PIOSSIBLE ADVERSE SOCIAL IMPACTS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS                   7
2.1 Large to medium size buildings                                      7
2.2 Small buildings and infrastructure                                  8
2.3 Water supply and distribution sub-projects                          8
2.4 Tree nurseries and afforestation sub-projects                       8
21.5 Roads and associated infrastructure                                9
3. THE LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR LOSS OF LAND AND ASSETS                         10
4. V'OLUNTARY DONATIONS OF LAND AND ASSETS FOR COMMUNITY PROJECTS
12
5. C)BJECTIVES AND PRINCIPLES FOR ASSET REPLACEMENT AND RESTORATION
13
5.1 Objectives                                                         13
5.2 Principles                                                         13
6. FPROCESS FOR DEALING WITH LAND AND ASSETS IN FAS SUB-PROJECTS           15
6.1 Overall responsibility                                             15
6.2 Preliminary tasks                                                  15
6.3 Identification and selection of sub-projects                       15
6.4 Environmental screening                                            15
6.5 Baseline survey                                                    16
6.6 Negotiation of asset replacement or restoration measures           16
6.7 Ceding and reallocation of land                                    16
6.8 Replacement and restoration of other assets lost                   16
6.9 Review and approval of sub-project dossiers                        17
6.10Delivery of entitlements                                           17
6.1 1 Grievances                                                       17
7. MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                               18
Resetilement Policy Framework



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1ll)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDC                Community Development Component
CDD                Community driven development
DP                 Displaced person
EA                 Environmental analysis/assessment
EMP                Environmental management plan
ESMF               Environmental and social management framework
FAS                Social Action Fund (Fundo de Apoio Social)
GOA                Government of Angola
m                  metre
MA                 Municipal Administrator
MDC                Municipal Development Component
NC                 Nucleo communitanro
NCC                National Co-ordinating Committee
NCU                National Co-ordinating Unit
OP                 Operational procedures
PCC                Provincial Co-ordinating Committee
RAP                Resettlement action plan
RPF                Resettlement policy framework
TSS                Transitional Support Strategy
USD                United States Dollar
WB                 World Bank
Resettlement Policy Framework        11



Angola Soclal Action Fund (FAS 111
1.    INTRODUCTION
1.1   Background to the project
The '27 years of armed conflict in Angola have had a profound effect on all aspects of social
and economic life in the country. The conflict, and in particular the considerable internal
displacement, caused widespread poverty, weak governance, resource mismanagement
and stailed democratisati9n. Since the signing of a formal ceasefire agreement in April
2002, Angola has been struggling to complete a complex triple transition: from war to peace;
from centralised to democratic government; and from a state-controlled to a market
economy.
The peace agreement has provided Angola with a unique opportunity to achieve a
permanent reduction in poverty. The World Bank (WB) is providing technical and financial
support to the Government of Angola (GOA) to plan and implement the Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy. The framework for the WB/GOA co-operation is described in the
Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) which is organised around:
-     enhancing  the transparency, efficiency and  credibility of public resource
management;
-     expanding service delivery to war-affected and other vulnerable groups; and
-     preparing the ground for broad-based, pro-poor economic growth.
In 1993 the Social Action Fund (FAS) was established with the intention of improving access
to basic services and to generate temporary employment for the poor in rural and peri-urban
areas, through rehabilitating and re-equipping community infrastructure in health, education
and sanitation. FAS is a demand-driven funding mechanism intended to help the process of
poverty alleviation and human resource development in the country. FAS directly supports
all three pillars of the TSS and can be considered to be an important agent in the triple
transition that the country is going through.
The initial FAS project (FAS I) included a wide range of sub-projects which primarily focused
on the reconstruction and re-establishment of essential social services. Some 650 sub-
projects were financed. FAS I was successful in channelling resources and technical
expertise to improve access and quality of basic social and economic services throughk the
provision of community based infrastructure to poor communities. It did not, however, focus
on the process of strengthening human and social capital at the community level.
A second project (FAS II) was implemented in late 2000 and financed over 1 100 sub-
projects. FAS II had a stronger performance in building physical capital and started to build
human and social capital of project partners (both at intermediary and community levels)
within the framework of the project cycle.
The FAS IlIl project, currently being developed, will build on lessons learned from FAS I and
11. It will continue along the same lines but will make a more concerted effort, both in its
design and implementation, to more closely relate investment in the three forms of capital:
physical; human; and social, at both community and municipal (district) levels. Investments
in physical, human and social capital will be organised in a more sharply-focused,
commriunity-driven development (CDD) framework in order to give greater control over
decisions and resources to community groups and local institutions, including municipal
government. FAS IlIl will focus on empowering its partners and help build up an enabling
envircnment in which communities, implementing partners and local administrations will be
capacitated to become the main actors of the local development process.
Resettl,sment Policy Framework        1



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 11l)
1.2   Summary description of the project
A detailed description of the project is presented in the Project Appraisal Document for the
Angola Social Action Fund prepared by the WB Task Team.
The development objective of FAS IlIl is to achieve improved, expanded and sustainable
utilisation.of basic social and economic services and to support a governance system where
local government and corrmunities can gradually become mutually accountable. To reach
that development objective, FAS IlIl will provide or rehabilitate social and economic
infrastructure, primarily in peri-urban and rural areas, through small-sub-projects. Applying a
CDD approach, FAS IlIl will build human and social capital within and between communities
and external support agents, such as local administrations and civil society organisations.
Follovving this approach, FAS IlIl will provide support to a governance structure that creates
norms and networks among community members and local institutions to facilitate collective
action around common goals, with emphasis on participation, social inclusion and mutual
accountability.
The longer term vision is that FAS, as an institution, will move out of its core project
implernentation functions and transfer its responsibilities and capacities to its implementing
partners at community and municipal levels. In the medium term, the role of FAS will
increasingly be one of co-ordination, quality control and financial intermediation.
FAS IlIl will also operate in an environment that is clearly distinct from the greater part of FAS
I and 11. Angola is currently going through a transition from prolonged conflict to peace. The
changed circumstances enable FAS IlIl to expand its activities to previously inaccessible
provinces and areas and to adapt its menu of interventions to meet the changes of CDD. It
also enables FAS IlIl to play a more crucial role in the transition from post conflict emergency
to development.
FAS IlIl will continue to be co-ordinated by the FAS management institutions already
established.  FAS is an autonomous institution under the umbrella of the Ministry of
Planning. At the national level it comprises the National FAS Directorship, which consists of
an Executive Director, an Assistant Executive Director, an administration team and a central
technical team known as the National Co-ordination Unit (NCU). Overall project oversight,
including setting of FAS policy, is provided by the National Co-ordinating Committee (NCC),
which consists of representatives of key government ministries, non-governmental
institutions and civil society.
At the provincial level FAS is comprised of the Provincial FAS Directorship, with a Provincial
Director, an administration team  and a technical team.  A Provincial Co-ordinating
Committee (PCC), consisting of representatives of the provincial government, non-
governmental institutions and civil society, ensures that FAS priorities are consistent with
provincial priorities and to guarantee the involvement of line ministries in FAS activities. FAS
operates in a fully decentralised way, with each Provincial Directorship responsible for
selection and implementation of sub-projects and activities in its geographical area with
resources allocated from the centre directly to provincial accounts. Procurement activities
are also carried out at the provincial level.  Operationally, the main thrust of FAS IlIl
implementation will be at the provincial level with each provincial FAS team (i.e. the FAS
Team) working with communities, municipal governments and other implementing partners.
Municipal governments comprise municipal administrations, headed by a Municipal
Administrator appointed by the central government, and municipal councils which comprise
representative of municipal departments and sections and representatives from communities
and civil society. In time, it is anticipated that the functions of the FAS Teams will be taken
Resettlement Policy Framework          2



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1ll)
over by municipal governments. Social Promoters will provide the main link between the
FAS Team and the communities.
Each FAS Team will be responsible for advising on all technical decisions required to
successfully implement the civil works activities. Specifically FAS teams will:
-     advise the PCC on whether to approve the construction of a new project in a locality;
and
-     approve the selection of sites for the building of new projects based on submissions.
FAS 11 has two components that will provide social and economic infrastructure based on
comrnunities' own identification, prioritisation, implementation and maintenance of small sub-
projects.
Component 1: Community Development Component
Using a CDD approach, the Community Development Component (CDC) will finance local
initiatives to build and restore social and economic infrastructure based on communities' own
identification, prioritisation, implementation and maintenance of small-scale sub-projects. It
will expand and improve access to the management and sustainable use of basic social and
economic infrastructure, improve governance and build social capital. Within the CDD
framework, the CDC will give increasing control over decisions and resources to community
groups and local level institutions, including local government; build organisational capacity;
and develop accountability mechanisms between communities and formal support
institutions. It will be instrumental in testing and strengthening operational modalities and
participatory planning processes which will lay the foundation for activities envisaged under
Component 11. Sub-project investments are expected to include:
i.    construction, rehabilitation or provision of basic infrastructure for health, education,
water and sanitation;
ii.   small-scale community and municipal infrastructure; and
iii.  environmental upgrading (e.g. waste management, reforestation, etc.).
Five broad categories of sub-projects have been identified for possible funding through
FAS 111. Sub-project categories and types are as follows.
-     Social - Education: Schools, kindergartens, orphanages, environmental schools,
training centres and multi-purpose social centres;
-     Social - Health: Health posts and centres, hygiene posts and maternity posts;
-     Social - Water and sanitation: Family latrines, public toilets, bath houses, water
points, wells, boreholes, water tanks, public water standpipes, simple laundry
facilities (e.g. washing slabs) and combinations of these;
-     Productive - Markets, infrastructure for bread-making (e.g. bakeries), tree nurseries,
reforestation and small livestock slaughter houses; and
-     Economic - Footpaths, roads, bridges and culverts.
The target populations are the poorer communities in rural and peri-urban areas. Municipal
administrations and other project partners with a stake in local development will also form an
integial part of the target group.
Resettlement Policy Framework          3



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1ll)
Sub-projects to be financed will be based on the communities' own identification and
prioritisation. The first requirement for a community sub-project to be considered by FAS is
to hold a community general assembly in which community problems, priorities, identification
and selection of project sites are discussed with all other interested/affected parties. Each
participating community will elect a community project committee or Nucleo Communitario
(NC) to represent the community. The NCs will consist of people who command the respect
of their communities and, together with the municipal administrations, will be the key
operational institutions in FAS IlIl implementation. The roles and responsibilities of the NC
include (but are not restricted) to:
-     representing their communities on all matters required of them regarding the project;
-     submitting an, application for a project (initially to the municipal administration for
approval before being forwarded to the FAS Team);
-     in close consultation with their communities, proposing a suitable location for the
project site; and
-     acting as liaison between the FAS team, the local community and the municipal
administration during the planning and construction of the project as well as during
monitoring to ensure designed mitigation measures are respected during
construction and during operation of the project.
Sub-projects whose total value of FAS financing is below USD 100 000 will be approved
directly at the provincial level. Sub-projects exceeding that value are to be submitted to the
NCC for review, approval or rejection. To facilitate meaningful consultations, the FAS Team
and/or the intermediary agency will assist the NC by providing relevant materials and
inforrnation concerning the new sub-projects so that they are understandable and accessible
to the groups being consulted.
Component II: Municipal Development Component
The Municipal Development Component (MDC) will assist municipal governments with
capacity development and financial resources to become proficient in the provision of social
and economic services to communities. Over the implementation period of the project,
eligible and participating municipal governments will be expected to gradually take over the
various activities of the CDC sub-project cycle (i.e. sensitisation, participatory needs
assessment and approval) from FAS management. For each participating municipality a
consultative forum with representatives of government and civil society will be established
with functions and roles somewhat analogous to the NCC and PCCs. Sub-projects will
continue to be based on CDC principles but will also be based on municipal development
plans.
Based on a graduation scheme and specific eligibility criteria, the MDC will provide municipal
governments with:
i.    finance for capacity development activities;
ii.   "administrative grants" to carry out all activities of the CDC sub-project cycle with a
view to eventually developing, implementing and monitoring their municipal
development plans; and
iii.  funds, for those municipalities which are advanced in their implementation capacity,
to finance community level social and economic infrastructure sub-projects.
1.3   Preparation of the resettlement policy framework
For WVB supported projects the Bank requires that any project that causes involuntary
displacement must be subject to the requirements of its Operational Policy on Involuntary
Resettlement Policy Framework        4



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1ll)
Resettlement (OP 4.12). The policy covers direct economic and social impacts that are
caused by the involuntary taking of land resulting in:
-     relocation or loss of shelter;
-     the loss of assets or access to assets important to production;
-     the loss of income sources or means of livelihood; or
-     the loss of access to locations that provide higher incomes or lower expenditures to
businesses or persons.
Displacement may, therefore, be physical, economic, social or cultural. The WB describes
these processes and outcomes as "involuntary resettlement", or simply "resettlement", even
when people are not forced to move. For the purposes of WB OP 4.12 "involuntary" is taken
to me!an actions that me be taken without the displaced person's informed consent or power
of choice. Resettlement is involuntary if affected people do not have the option to retain the
status quo that they have before the project begins. WB OP 4.12 is applied whether or not
the alfected persons must move to another location.
Sector-wide projects and programmes, such as FAS l1l, often involve multiple sub-projects,
some of which may require land and asset takings. Specific investment decisions are
usually made during the life of the project. Individual sub-projects are often not known at the
beginning because they are to be selected at a later date. In such cases the WB OP 4.12
requires two types of resettlement planning.
The first is a resettlement policy framework (RPF) which guides and governs the project as
sub-projects are selected for inclusion. An RPF is prepared in situations where specific
investment sites and details (i.e. individual sub-projects) are not known. It is a statement of
the policy, principles, institutional arrangements and procedures that will be followed for
each sub-project involving compensation and/or resettlement. It sets out the elements
common to all the sub-projects and allows for the principles and processes to be agreed. It,
therefore, allows project implementers, who may be in many locations, agencies or
communities, to undertake specific sub-projects without having to renegotiate fundamental
agreements. The RPF must be prepared, accepted and disclosed publicly before the WB
will appraise the project.
The second element involves individual resettlement action plans (RAPs), based on the
common policies, principles and arrangements contained in the RPF, the RPF and the RAPs
being fully complementary to one another. They are undertaken for each sub-project where
displacement will occur, once more specific details of the location and nature of the sub-
project is known. When they are required individual RAPs must be prepared and reviewed
befonr they are accepted for inclusion in the overall project or programme.
To assess and mitigate the potential environmental and social impacts of future CDC and
MDC sub-projects effectively an environmental and social management framework (ESMF),
which includes an environmental management plan (EMP), is being prepared. The ESMF
represents a screening process that facilitates the early identification of potential impacts
related to site selection, soil erosion, soil and water pollution and waste management as well
as operation and maintenance of sub-projects.  It outlines a process for assigning
environmental categories to the proposed sub-projects and outlines the institutional
arrangements and time horizons for the implementation of mitigation measures and the
moniloring of the implementation of these mitigation measures.
As part of the preparation of FAS IlIl an RPF is required to meet the requirements of the GOA
and the WB. Although an integral part of the EMP recommendations in the ESMF, the RPF
is presented as a separate document.
Resettlement Policy Framework        5



Angola Social Acbon Fund (FAS 1ll)
For FAS IlIl the nature and size of possible sub-projects suggests that the magnitude of
adverse environmental and social impacts will be minimal. Minor socio-economic impacts,
including the need to permanently or temporarily acquire land and productive resources
may, however, be encountered with certain sub-projects. Displacement and the subsequent
need for relocation and/or compensation, as a result of sub-project implementation, is
expected to occur only in a few exceptional cases and the degree of displacement is not
expected to be significant.
One of the criteria for sub-projects to be eligible for FAS financing is that the participating
community needs to demonstrate an officially sanctioned riqht to use or benefit from the land
where the facility is going to be built. In order to demonstrate or acquire such right, any
displacement (from land, resources other assets or access to assets) must be undertaken
with lhe proved, agreed and informed consent of any displaced person/s or entity, i.e.
displacement must be voluntary. No compulsory land acquisition will be entertained. In
cases where there is need to voluntarily relocate affected people and/or provide
replacements or compensation for losses incurred this must be arranged and implemented
locally within communities and with the municipal administrations. No sub-project will be
approved if it would require involuntary displacement or resettlement or if a grievance is
currently being filed or is unresolved.
From the experience of FAS I and 11 most communities were able to demonstrate rights over
the land on which infrastructure was to be located. In cases where an individual had the
right io use or benefit from the land in question (whether officially recognised or not) it was
usualUy agreed that the affected person would voluntarily cede the land (and/or assets) in
return for replacement land (and/or assets) being provided by the community or local
administration.
For FAS III this RPF has been prepared to present the procedures to be followed when a
sub-project is identified as having impacts on land rights, assets or access to assets and
which will entail the voluntary ceding of land and assets by affected persons or entities in
returm for replacements or other forms of restoration. Exact procedures will differ according
to local circumstances but the procedural guidelines will be incorporated in the FAS
Operational Manual.  The RPF has been generally been structured according to the
requirements of WB OP 4.12, taking into consideration that no compulsory land or asset
acquisition or involuntary resettlement is involved.  Individual sub-project RAPs will,
therelore, not be required although the RPF requires that certain planning documents and
certificates be submitted with sub-project dossiers for approval.
Consistent with the WB's Disclosure Policy, the RPF, as part of the overall ESMF and EMP
will have to be disclosed prior to appraisal. Disclosure will take place in Angola as well as in
the WB Infoshop. Thus, the GOA will disclose the document in-country while forwarding a
letter to the Bank, authorising the latter to disclose the document in the WB Infoshop.
Resettiement Policy Framework         6



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS Ill)
2.    POSSIBLE ADVERSE SOCIAL IMPACTS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Although a "menu" of possible eligible types of sub-projects for FAS IlIl has been formulated
the exact nature, size and location of individual sub-projects is not known. It is therefore not
possible to predict with any degree of certainty the type and extent of any adverse social,
economic and cultural effects.
FAS IlIl sub-projects will, hpwever, be relatively small in physical and financial terms. Given
the nature and size of the civil works it is highly unlikely that significant quantities of land will
be required for sub-project infrastructure and activities and that no or little voluntary
displacement of affected persons is likely to occur. If a particular sub-project does require
land for sub-project infrastructure and activities it is probable that the amount of land
involved will be very small. Therefore, any potential impacts regarding the land, assets and
economic activities of people living or using land in or around sub-project sites are expected
to be limited. Voluntary displacement, if any, is likely to be highly localised. On the basis of
available information, possible sub-projects and sub-project activities that may require land
to be acquired, either permanently or temporarily, and which may adversely affect assets or
livelihoods of displaced persons (DPs) are briefly described below.
2.1   Large to medium size buildings
Many FAS IlIl sub-projects are likely to involve the construction of new fairly large to medium
size buildings, such as educational facilities (e.g. schools, training centres, kindergartens,
orphanages and multi-purpose social centres) and health facilities (e.g. health posts and
centres, maternity posts and hygiene posts), or the rehabilitation of exiting structures. Most
such sub-projects may include ancillary facilities, such as water supply, sanitation, drainage,
fences and access.
The construction of new buildings will result in the loss of a certain amount of land but will, in
most instances, not lead to the permanent displacement of affected people or entities,
particularly if a building is sited on unoccupied and otherwise unclaimed land "held" by the
benefiting individual community.
Certain public or community buildings may, however, have to be constructed on land which
is being occupied or utilised, in one form or another, by other people or entities. An example
is a primary school in a rural or peri-urban area which is to be constructed on land that
currently contains residential structures or is being used by farmers for growing crops on or
by communities for grazing livestock on. In such a case the construction of the school
buildings would lead to displacement through the loss of residence, productive land, assets
or access to resources. During construction existing trees and vegetation may need to be
cut down, which will represent a permanent loss of assets to some DPs. The areas of land
involved are, however, likely to be very small and it is highly unlikely that FAS IlIl sub-projects
involving the construction of fairly large to medium size buildings will require the voluntary
acquisition of land or cause displacement. Buildings should always be sited so as to cause
as little disturbance to human activities and private property and assets as possible. Where
possitble, buildings should be sited on unused public or "waste" land.
Durincg the construction of the buildings some losses may be experienced due to the need to
acquire land for activities such as gaining access to sites, storage of construction materials
and slorage of spoil. Losses might include small areas of land, crops, fruit trees, other
plants, paved areas and fences. Losses are generally expected to be mostly temporary and
are most likely to be due to damage caused by construction machinery and personnel.
The construction of buildings and, particularly, the erection of fences around buildings, may,
in certain cases, cut off traditional access routes, such as pathways and livestock routes,
Resettlement Policy Framework          7



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1ll)
and impede accessibility to locations and resources. The result is likely to be inconvenience
rather than displacement but remedial measures may need to be considered.
2.2   Small buildings and infrastructure
It is lilkely that most of the FAS Ill sub-projects will involve the establishment or rehabilitation
of small buildings or structures. These may include, for example, health related facilities,
saniteition facilities (e.g. family latrines, public toilets, simple laundry structures (e.g. washing
slabs), bath houses and combinations of these with other sanitation facilities or water supply
facilities) and production related infrastructure or materials (e.g. markets and market stalls),
structures for bread making (e.g. bakeries) and small livestock slaughter facilities).
The amount of land required for such facilities, and therefore any resultant voluntary
displacement, is generally likely to be,minimal. During construction some losses may be
experienced due to the need to acquire land for activities such as gaining access to sites,
storage of construction materials and storage of spoil. Losses might include small areas of
land, crops, fruit trees, other plants, paved areas and fences. Losses are generally expected
to be mostly temporary and are most likely to be due to damage caused by construction
machinery and personnel. Such impacts can be minimised by careful site selection, so as to
avoid disturbance to human activities and private property and assets. Where possible, they
should be sited on unused public or "waste" land.
2.3   Water supply and distribution sub-projects
Small water supply and distribution infrastructure is most likely to include wells, boreholes
and ol her water supply points, with or without manual pumps. Small reticulation systems,
together with storage tanks and standpipes, may also be installed.
Such water supply systems are unlikely to take up any land of significance and they should,
as far as is possible, be located so as to cause as little disturbance to human activities and
private property and assets as possible. In the unlikely event that areas of land may need to
be connpulsorily acquired, the area required is expected to be insignificant
In most cases any displacement is likely to be temporary in nature and will usually be
experienced during construction and installation due to the need to acquire land for activities
such as gaining access to sites, storage of construction materials and storage of spoil.
Losses might include small areas of land, crops, fruit trees, ornamental plants, paved areas
and fences. Such temporary losses are most likely to be due to damage caused by
constrjction machinery and personnel.
2.4   Tree nurseries and afforestation sub-projects
FAS Ill will support small tree nursery and afforestation sub-projects. The establishment of
nurseries requires a certain amount of land, the area required depending on the size and
nature of the nursery. However, it is unlikely that significant areas of land will be required for
tree nursery sub-projects. Nurseries generally need to be established where conditions (e.g.
the physical terrain, accessibility and water supply availability) are favourable and there may
be cases where such land is already being occupied or used by other people or entities.
Although unencumbered land should always be selected in the first instance, there may be
occasions where small areas of land have to be acquired, leading to the possible
displacement of people and assets, but only on a voluntary basis.
Afforestation and reforestation tends to involve the use of much larger areas of land although
it is not expected that such initiatives supported by FAS Ill will be very large. The location of
a planted forest is also dependant on the presence of favourable conditions, such as soil
Resettlement Policy Framework          8



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 1ll)
and terrain factors. It is, therefore, possible that a community afforestation scheme could be
located on land which is being occupied or utilised, in one form or another, by other people
or entities. In some cases such land may currently be used by farmers for growing crops on
or by communities for grazing livestock on. The introduction of afforestation could, therefore,
lead to displacement through the loss of productive land, assets or access to resources.
During implementation existing trees and vegetation may need to be cut down, which could
also represent a permanent loss of these assets to some DPs.
During the establishment of tree nurseries and planted forests losses due to the need to
acquire land for activities, such as gaining access to sites, storage of construction materials
and storage of spoil, are not expected to be significant. Losses might include small areas of
land, crops, fruit trees, other plants, paved areas and fences. Losses are generally expected
to be mostly temporary and are most likely to be due to damage caused during
implementation by machinery and personnel.
Tree nursery and afforestation sub-projects may involve the erection of fences. This may, in
certain cases, cut off traditional access routes, such as pathways and livestock routes, and
impede accessibility to locations and resources. The result is likely to be inconvenience
rather than displacement but remedial measures may need to be considered.
2.5   Roads and associated infrastructure
It is envisaged that FAS Ill sub-projects will include the rehabilitation of earth feeder or
tertiary roads, footpaths, bridges and culverts. There may be a few cases where new
infrastructure needs to be provided. The construction or rehabilitation of ancillary drainage
infrastructure (e.g. drainage channels) may also be included in such sub-projects.
Rehabilitation or repair of existing roads and related structures does not usually require the
taking of additional land, although this might be a requirement in certain, unusual cases.
Some land losses may be experienced due to the need to acquire land for activities such as
gaining access to sites, storage of construction materials and storage of spoil. Losses other
than trees are generally expected to be mostly temporary, and are most likely to be due to
damage caused by construction equipment and personnel.
Where new minor roads are to be constructed land will be required for the new road and
associated infrastructure (e.g. small bridges, culverts and drainage structures). Wherever
possible such roads should be sited so as to minimise displacement or disturbance to people
and property.
Resettlement Policy Framework         9



Angola Social Acbon Fund (FAS 111)
3.    THE LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR LOSS OF LAND AND ASSETS
Legislation concerning land in Angola is in a state of flux and is somewhat inconsistent with
a variety of different legal instruments being applied by a number of agencies in different
circumstances and geographical areas. Land legislation is currently under review and an
"ante-project of the Land Law" is currently being discussed within the country.
The l aw to Use and Benefit from Land based on a Titled Concession (the "Land Law") was
passed by the National Assembly of Angola in 1992 and determines that all the land is State
land. The right to use and benefit from land may be acquired by individuals or associations,
both national and non-national, based on the authorisation of a formal request made by the
proponent. The 1992 law allowed for individuals to purchase land from the State. However,
the processes dealing with land legislation are very bureaucratic, obscure and expensive
and it is highly probable that many occupiers and users of land in FAS IlIl sub-project areas
(e.g. in rural and peri-urban areas) do not have official title to the land that they occupy and
use. Most people in such areas rely on informal arrangements, including an unofficial land
market, to obtain title to land or to use and benefit from land. While such arrangements are
not always legally recognised they are usually recognised by communal authorities.
Land rights may be extinguished by the State in the public interest and in such cases the
land reverts to the State, However, it is incumbent upon the State to pay a fair and just
compensation.
The G)OA does not have a specific resettlement policy for cases where vulnerable groups
are clisplaced.  Other than stating that compensation should be paid when land is
expropriated in the public interest, the Land Law does not expand on issues related to
compensation, in terms of the principles, forms, eligibility, valuation, adequacy, procedures,
timing and responsibilities.
There are no specific guidelines regarding compensation and fairness and the principles and
procedures are often drawn up and agreed to among the main stakeholders on a case by
case or individual project basis.
It is sometimes problematic when only a very small portion of a DP's land holding is required
for a development project and where the loss of this small portion does not effect the overall
viability or productivity of the whole land holding. It might be impractical or impossible to
provide alternative small parcels of land in the immediate vicinity and other forms of
compensation or restoration have to be considered.
There may be a few cases where some people are occupying and using land for which they
have no legal right of use and benefit. Such land may include, for example, total or partial
protection zones or land for which other people and bodies have legal rights of use and
benefit (i.e. rented housing and land). In some cases it may also be possible that people
have been granted land by the authorities but they do not have "authorisation" to use and
benefit from the land. However, it has been common practice to treat such cases in the
same way as people with legal rights to use and benefit from land and this is not at variance
with the WB requirement that all DPs, regardless of their tenure status, should be provided
with compensation and resettlement measures. This principle will apply to all sub-projects of
FAS IlIl.
There is no explicit legal provision for DPs to appeal against levels of compensation or other
resettlement measures provided although DPs have final redress to the courts. Generally,
there are well established local mechanisms for conflict resolution amongst communities.
Resettlement Policy Framework         10



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS 111)
Since all transfers of land and/or assets involved with FAS Ill sub-projects are to be
conducted purely on a voluntary basis the question of compulsory acquisition will not apply.
Resettlement Policy Framework              11



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS Ill)
4.    VOLUNTARY DONATIONS OF LAND AND ASSETS FOR COMMUNITY
PROJECTS
For F-AS IlIl sub-projects communities, individuals or entities may agree to provide land or
give up assets or access to assets in exchange for desired benefits. However, donations
may only be considered voluntary if the infrastructure is not location specific. For example,
infrastructure such as a school or clinic can be sited in a different location, if the land owner
or user objects. By contrast, infrastructure that is by nature is location specific, such as a
dam or reservoir, precludes voluntary donation because objectors can be coerced into
acceptance.
It is envisaged that all FAS IlIl sub-projects will not be location specific so that the possibility
of truly voluntary land donation exists. It is also expected that arrangements for voluntary
displacement will not involve any significant adverse impacts upon income or physical
displacement (or that community devised mechanisms for mitigating such adverse effects
are acceptable to those affected). In terms of WB OP 4.12 minor impacts are defined as
less than 10% of an individual's holdings.
The cletermination of informed consent can sometimes be difficult. The following criteria, as
outlined in the forthcoming WB Resettlement Sourcebook, are presented as guidelines to
help ensure that any donation or relinquishment of land or assets for a sub-project is done
voluntarily:
-     the infrastructure is not site specific;
-     the impacts are minor (i.e. involve no more than 10% of the area of any holding and
do not require any physical relocation;
-     the land required to meet technical project criteria is identified by the beneficiary
community, not by line agencies or project authorities (nonetheless technical
authorities can help ensure that the land is appropriate for project purposes, and that
the project will not produce health or environmental safety hazards);
-     the land in question must be free of squatters, encroachers or other claims or
encumbrances;
-     verification (e.g., notarised or witnessed statements) of the voluntary nature of land
donations must be obtained from each person donating land;
-     if any loss of income or physical displacement is envisaged, verification of voluntary
acceptance of community-devised mitigation measures must be obtained from those
to be adversely affected;
-     if community services are to be provided under the project, land title is vested in the
community, or appropriate guarantees of public access to services must be given by
the private title holder; and
-     grievance mechanisms are available.
Where applicable, these criteria will be applied to all FAS III sub-projects where there is
need Io acquire land through voluntary donation or relinquishment of land and/or assets for
sub-project purposes
Resettlement Policy Framework         12



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS III)
5.    OBJECTIVES AND PRINCIPLES FOR ASSET REPLACEMENT AND
RESTORATION
5.1   Objectives
The overall objective during the planning and implementation of FAS sub-projects is to
displace no or as few people, businesses and public bodies as possible (i.e. move people or
deprive them from resources or access to resources or deprive them from income earning
capacity or opportunities). Where displacement does occur, and such displacement is totally
voluntary, the objective is to ensure that sufficient investment resources are appropriately
allocated by participating sub-project communities to ensure that DPs are provided with:
-     adequate and appropriate replacement of assets ceded, or restoration in some other,
agreed manner; and
-     adequate and appropriate measures to enable them to relocate when physical
relocation is involved.
5.2   Principles
The following basic principles will govern preparation and implementation of all sub-projects:
-     no sub-project will be approved where a participating community cannot demonstrate
that it has the officially sanctioned right to use and benefit from the land;
-     no sub-project will be approved if a person or entity currently having rights to use or
benefit from the land in question (whether officially recognised or not) does not
voluntarily agree to cede the land or rights over the land and assets;
-     no sub-project will be approved if a grievance is currently being filed and is
unresolved;
-     alternative sub-project designs, which avoid or minimise displacement, will be
explored in all cases;
-     all possible means will be used to ensure that no people are harmed in any way by
sub-project preparation and implementation activities and sub-project outcomes; and
-     planning and implementation activities will be undertaken in participation with DPs
and bther relevant project affected people who will be continuously consulted
throughout the process;
Where voluntary displacement is being considered:
-     DPs will be informed about their options and rights pertaining to displacement,
restoration and relocation and about grievance mechanisms available to them;
-     lack of legal rights to land and assets occupied or used will not preclude a DP from
entitlement to restoration and relocation measures;
-     restoration, relocation and rehabilitation measures will be as fair as possible to all
parties concerned;
Resettlemnent Policy Framework       13



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS Ill)
-     where restoration, in cash or kind, is provided for loss of assets, access to assets or
damage caused to assets it will be provided on the basis of full replacement cost and
will include necessary additional costs incurred to achieve full restoration;
-     where replacement land is to be provided it will have a combination of productive
potential, location advantages, accessibility, availability of services and other factors
at least equivalent to the advantages of the original site and will be as near as
possible to the original site;
-     DPs that are physically relocated will be provided with relocation assistance (such as
moving and translocation assistance) during relocation.  Where necessary or
appropriate, development assistance, such as land preparation and training, will be
made available to beneficiaries in addition to restoration and relocation measures;
-     the costs, in cash or kind, associated with replacement and restoration of losses (e.g.
provision of replacement tree seedlings or clearing and ploughing replacement land)
will be borne by the beneficiary community as negotiated with DPs; and
-     construction work will not commence until DPs have been satisfactorily provided with
replacements for assets lost and/or relocated.
Resettlement Policy Framework          14



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS Ill)
6.    PROCESS FOR DEALING WITH LAND AND ASSETS IN FAS SUB-PROJECTS
6.1   Overall responsibility
The Provincial FAS Director will be responsible for overseeing the RPF and its requirements.
Responsibility for ensuring that land and asset issues are dealt with lie with the NCs, with
assistance and input from the provincial FAS team, the Social Promoters and the municipal
administrations. Specific responsibilities are described below for each of the tasks within the
sub-project cycle.
6.2   Preliminary tasks
Before planning and implementation of the first sub-project commences the FAS NCU within
the National FAS Directorship will ensure that a number of preliminary tasks are completed.
An initial task will be for the national FAS team to design and produce standard forms and
formats to be used during sub-project planning and implementation and which will be
included in the FAS Operation Manual. These will include, for example:
-     environmental screening forms to be used to determine whether or not a sub-project
will cause displacement, in one form or another;
-     survey forms to be used, where necessary, for collecting baseline information on DPs
(or entities) and other project affected people within the footprint of the sub-project.
These forms will be used to record the manner of likely displacement, whether
physical, economic or social, and the extent of the displacement;
-     entitlement agreement contracts to be signed by DPs or entities, the NC and the MA.
These will record any final agreed measures for replacing or restoring lost assets and
relocation entitlements; and
-     entitlement receipt forms to be signed by beneficiaries, the NC and MA on receipt of
replacements or restoration for lost assets or for relocation entitlements.
6.3   Identification and selection of sub-projects
Sub-projects will be identified and selected by communities through community general
assemblies where . community problems and priorities will be discussed.  Community
representative structures, such as the NC, which will be assisted by the provincial FAS team
and/or any other intermediary agency, will be responsible for submitting sub-project ideas to
the municipal administration which will then forward its list to the FAS Team and PCC. Once
a sub-project idea has been approved sub-project planning commences and a sub-project
dossier is prepared.
6.4   Environmental screening
Once a new sub-project has been identified an environmental and social screening process
will take place on the basis of the environmental and social check-list for desk-top and field
appraisal, which is completed jointly by the community, the FAS team and the NC and, in
some cases, the municipal administration.  The screening process identifies potential
environmental and social impacts of sub-project activities, including impacts on land, assets
and socio-economic activities. This process will be applied to all FAS IlIl sub-projects.
Resettlement Policy Framework        15



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS Ill)
6.5   Baseline survey
Whe!re the screening process indicates that a sub-project may lead to displacement a
baseline survey will be undertaken to:
-     determine who (individuals, households and entities) will be potentially displaced
(physically, economically or socially) by sub-project activities;
-     determine the nature and extent of potential displacement;
-     compile a preliminary list of potential DPs (or entities) and their affected assets.
6.6   Negotiation of asset replacement or restoration measures
With assistance from the FAS team negotiations will be conducted between the DP and the
commnunity (represented by the NC) and, where appropriate with the- municipal
administration, concerning the voluntary ceding of the land and assets by the DP to the
comrnunity for the sub-project and the subsequent replacement, relocation or restoration
measure to be applied. Negotiations will include inspecting any replacement land to be
offered.
Once the details of land and other asset donation or loss have been agreed to entitlement
agreement contracts will be signed by DPs or entities, the NC and the MA. These will record
any final agreed measures for replacing or restoring lost assets and relocation entitlements.
If no agreement is reached no entitlement agreement contracts will be signed and the sub-
project, as originally proposed, will not be approved. The entitlement agreement contracts
will be included in the sub-project dossier.
6.7   Ceding and reallocation of land
Where the land is in the public domain or is officially recognised as belonging to the
community the MA will issue a certificate stating that the land to be used for the sub-project
is not encumbered. This will be included in the sub-project dossier.
Where a DP has agreed to voluntarily cede land to the project the MA will make the
necessary arrangements to have the DPs title or rights over the land officially withdrawn.
Subsequently, the MA will make arrangements for the land to be officially allocated to, and
registered in the name of, the beneficiary community or, where appropriate, service
organisation, such as the Ministry of Education in the case of a school.
Wherever possible, land that has to be acquired for FAS sub-projects will be replaced with
land of at least equal area and characteristics. Any replacement land provided to a DP who
has voluntarily ceded land for a sub-project will be officially allocated to the DP or entity and
registered in his or her name. The MA will issue a certificate, to be included in the sub-
project dossier, certifying that land required for the sub-project has been voluntarily ceded
and reallocated to the community or beneficiary organisation.
6.8   Replacement and restoration of other assets lost
In cases where a DP voluntarily agrees to giving up assets or access to assets, such as
small infrastructure, standing crops or fruit trees, or where restoration measures are needed
(e.g. clearing and ploughing of replacement land) the community, represented by the NC
and assisted by the FAS Team, will negotiate with the DP regarding measures to replace or
restore the asset (e.g. compensation in cash or kind to be provided by the community). The
nature of such restoration is likely to be highly variable from one situation to another.
Resettlement Policy Framework ,       16



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS Ill)
6.9   Review and approval of sub-project dossiers
With assistance from the FAS Team and other implementation partners, the NC is
responsible for preparing the sub-project dossier. Standard, nationally approved designs will
be used for infrastructure. When completed, the sub-project dossier will be submitted to the
Provincial FAS Directorship for approval by FAS and the PCC.
6.10  Delivery of entitlernents
Replacement land will be provided by the community from its own resources or may be
provided from unallocated land through the municipal administration. Where assets, such as
fruit trees, are to be replaced these will also be provided by the beneficiary community,
although the method by which a community is able to provide such replacements will vary
from one situation to another. On receipt of replacement land and/or replacement or
restoration of other assets, the DP will sign an entitlement receipt form, indicating that he or
she has received the entitlements outlined in the original entitlement agreement contract and
that no further claims against the community or other parties will be made.
The MA will issue a certificate certifying that the land on which sub-project infrastructure is to
be constructed is legally in the public domain, has been allocated to the community or
beneFiciary and that any previous owners or users have voluntarily given up the land and
associated assets and have been adequately and appropriately provided with replacement
land or assets and restoration measures.
6.11  Grievances
The (grievance process is important in order to provide a "safety net" to ensure that land
and/cr assets are voluntarily given, rather than coerced. Since the process of giving up land
and assets for FAS sub-projects must be entirely voluntary and negotiated, grievances
concerning the adequacy and appropriateness of replacement and restoration entitlements
are unlikely to be encountered. However, should a DP or other party, feel aggrieved by any
sub-project related activities or measures he or she will be able to voice a complaint. Initial
grievances will need to be initially directed to local or traditional leaders with appeal made to
the municipal administration and then to the Provincial FAS Director. It is FAS policy that if a
DP is not satisfied with any replacement or restoration measure then the sub-project will not
be approved in its present form or for the specific intended location.
All identified DPs will be informed of the grievance mechanism during the environmental and
social screening exercise or through the subsequent baseline survey.
Resettlement Policy Framework         17



Angola Social Action Fund (FAS IIl)
7.    MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Following the requirements of the WB, during compensation and restoration implementation,
and possibly for some time afterwards, both internal and external monitoring and evaluation
exercises will be carried out in order to monitor progress and ensure that DPs are
adequately catered for and are left in a position no worse off than they were prior to sub-
project commencement. Monitoring and evaluation will be part of, or be closely aligned to,
the rnonitoring and evaluation process agreed to for monitoring of other environmental
impacts of the sub-project. The monitoring should address the following:
-     delivery and usage of replacement, restoration and rehabilitation entitlements;
-     allocation of replacement land, where applicable;
-     reconstruction of infrastructure, where applicable;
-     compensation measures applied to cater for damage during construction activities;
-     reported grievances and action taken;
-     meetings with officials and DPs;
-     problems encountered and action taken; and
-     general issues related to the success of the asset replacement and restoration
exercise.
External monitoring will be conducted under the auspices of the overall FAS Ill project. The
main aim will be to determine whether the objectives of the asset replacement and
restoration exercise have been achieved and to assess, to the extent -possible,
implementation and the restoration of the livelihoods of DPs. The external monitoring and
evaluation exercise should include, but not be limited to, evaluation of:
-     implementation progress;
-     asset replacement and restoration policies;
-     delivery of entitlements, including replacement land where applicable;
-     changes in livelihoods and incomes among DPs; and
-     consultation with and participation of DPs and other stakeholders.
Resettlement Policy Framework        18



