                                                  Documentof
                                               The World Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY



                                                                                Report No: 25671-ANG




                                    PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                     ONA

                                             PROPOSEDCREDIT

                                 lNTHEAMOUNT OFSDR40.5 MILLION

                                    (US$55.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                   TO THE

                                           REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA

                                                  FOR THE

                                 THIRD SOCIAL ACTION FUND (FAS 111)




                                                 June 27,2003


HumanDevelopment1
CountryDepartment2
Africa Region




                         restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents maynot be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 16,2003)

                              Currency Unit = Kwanza
                                      K z 1 = US$0.013
                                      US$1 = Kz77

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1--December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CBO      Community Based Organization
CDD      Community Driven Development
CDC      Community Development Component
CF       Consultative Fora
CIVA     Conflict Impact and Vulnerability Assessment
EDRP     Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Program
ESMF     Environmental and Social Management Framework
FAS      Social Action Fund
GOA      Government of Angola
IDA      International Development Association
IDP      Internally Displaced Person
INE      National Statistics Institute
I-PRSP   InterimPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper
LICUS    Low Income Countries Under Stress
MA       Municipal Administration
MDC      Municipal Development Component
MDG      MillenniumDevelopmentGoals
MINARS   Ministryof Social Reinsertion
NG       Nucleus Group
NORAD    Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
PAR      Rehabilitation Support Programme
PCRRP    Post Conflict Rehabilitationand Reconstruction Program
PM&E     Participatory Monitoring & Evaluation
PRC      Community Rehabilitation Program
SADC     Southern Africa Development Community
SIF      Social InvestmentFunds
S N V    StichtingNederlandse Vrijwilligers
SOCAT    Social Capital Assessment Tool
SPADD    Strategic Plan for Administrative Deconcentration and Decentralization
TSS      Transitional Support Strategy
UNDP     UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
UNITA    UniZo Naqional pela Independ. Total de Angola

                             Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
                Country ManagedDirector:       Darius Mans
                  Sector ManagedDirector:      Dzingai Mutumbuka
                        Task Team Leader:      WimAlberts

                                                                             FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                    ANGOLA
                                  THIRDSOCIAL ACTION FUND(FAS 111)
                                                   CONTENTS


A. Project Development Objective                                                               Page

   1. Project development objective                                                                2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                                   3

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project               4
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                                   5
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                           8

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                         10
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                              13
   3. Benefits and target population                                                             13
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                              15

D.ProjectRationale

   1. Projectalternatives considered andreasons for rejection                                     19
   2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies                19
   3. Lessons learned and reflectedinthe project design                                          20
   4. Indications o f borrower commitment and ownership                                          21
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                                21

E. SummaryProject Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                                   22
   2. Financial                                                                                  23
   3. Technical                                                                                  23
   4. Institutional                                                                              24
   5. Environmental                                                                              24
   6. Social                                                                                     26
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                         27

F. Sustainability andRisks

   1,Sustainability                                                                               28
   2. Critical Risks                                                                              29




This document has a restricted distribution and may b e used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents m a y not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

  3. Possible controversial aspects                             32


G. Main Credit Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                    32
  2. Other                                                      32

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                  33

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                    33


Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                 34
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                           38
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                 60
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                    61
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                      71
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                           74
         (B)FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements    81
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                            88
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                           89
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                         90
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                   92
Annex 11:Capacity Development Framework                         94

                                                      ANGOLA
                                          Third Social Action Fund (FAS 111)
                                       ProjectAppraisal Document
                                                Africa Regional Office
                                                       AFTHl

                                                           Team Leader: Wim H.Alberts
~Date: June 27,2003
 Sector ManagedDirector: Dzingai B. Mutumbuka              Sector(s): General education sector (35%),      Sanitation
 Country ManagedDirector: Darius Mans                      (30%), Other social services (25%), Health (10%)
 Project ID: PO81558                                       Theme(s): Civic engagement, participation and
 Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan (SIL)         C O m U n i t Y driven development (PI, Conflict Prevention
                                                           and post-conflict reconstruction (P), Other social
                                                           protection and riskmanagement (P), Social risk reduction
                                                           (SI



  For LoanslCreditslOthers:
  Amount (US$m): 55.0

  Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
  Commitmentfee: 0.00-0.50%



 IDA                                                                          55.00             0.00            55.00
 EC: EUROPEAN COMMISSION                                                      50.00             0.00            50.00
 BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED)                                             6.75             0.00              6.75




  FAS NationalCoordination Unit
  Address: Largo de Palazio, Caixa Postal 1205, Luanda, Angola
  Contact Person: Victor Hugo Guilherme




  Project implementationperiod: Four years    ~              ~




  Expectedeffectiveness date: 09/01/2003     Expectedclosing date: 06/30/2008
OPCS PADi"  RB"*.?e 2m

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to achieve improved, expanded and sustainable utilizationofbasic
social and economic services and to support a governance systemwhere local government and
communities can gradually become mutually accountable. To reach that development objective, the
ThirdSocialAction Fund(FAS 111)will provide or rehabilitate social and economic infrastructure
applying a Community DrivenDevelopment (CDD) approach which will buildhuman and social capital
within andbetweencommunities and external support agents such as local administrations and civil
society organizations. Following this approach, FAS I11will provide support to a governance structure
that creates norms and networks among community members and local institutions to facilitate collective
action around common goals, with an emphasis on participation, social inclusion and mutual
accountability.

The FAS I11project will buildon lessons learned from FAS Iand 11.The FAS Iproject was very
successful inchannelingresources and technical expertise to improve access and quality o f basic social
and economic services through the provisiono f community based infrastructures to poor communities.
The first project had a goodtrack recordinbuildingphysical capital, but FAS Iengagedless inthe
process o f strengthening human and social capital at the community level. FAS I1 had an even stronger
performance inbuildingphysical capital and started to buildhuman and social capital o f the project
partners (both at intermediary and community levels) within the framework o f the project cycle.

FAS I11will continue along these lines, but will make a more concerted effort, both inits design and
implementation, to more closely relate investment inthe three forms o f capital: physical, human and
social at both community and district levels:

    Physical capital rehabilitation i s seen as a way o f bringingcommunities together to design and
    implementprojects. Investmentinphysical capital at the community levelyields tangible, visible and
    immediate improvements in local living conditions, designed for the common good o f the
    community. Such community-based initiatives can help buildtrust and are important inso far as they
    help to sustain confidence inthe peaceprocess.

    Human capital entails knowledge and skills to improve individual performance. Within FAS 111,
    investment inhuman capital responds to organizational and institutional needs, and aims to develop
    the capacity of community membersandmunicipalofficials to function effectively and efficiently
    within the community and district organizations.

    Social capital i s understood, broadly, as the norms and networks that enable collective action. It
    includes elements o f community-level organizational capacity (common-interest association,
    organizational skills and competencies, accountability mechanisms) and cognitive capital (trust,
    reciprocity, belonging, civic identityand engagement). Investmentinsocial capital involves bonding
    forms o f capital within communities andbridgingforms o f capital betweencommunities and
    different types o f institutions. It is particularly relevant for development where it builds on a
    foundation o f principles o f social inclusion.

InFAS 111,the investmentsinphysical, human and social capitalwillbe organized inamore
sharply-focused CDD framework in order to give greater control over decisions and resources to
community groups and local level institutions, includingmunicipal government. Within this
reorientation, concepts such as participation, empowerment, civic engagement, social capital,


                                                        - 2 -

decentralization and sustainability need to be reconsidered, particularly interms o f the operational
implications for sub-project implementation and for the type and nature o f institutional partnerships
required to enable high quality performance and positive outcomes. FAS I11will focus on empowering its
partners and help buildan enabling environment, inwhich communities, implementing partners and local
administrations will be capacitated to become the main actors o f the local development process.

The longer term vision i s that FAS as an institution will move out o f its core project implementation
functions and transfer its responsibilities and capacities to its implementing partners at community and
district levels. The move i s anticipated to be a gradual one, with enough time and resources available for
FAS to capacitate its partners. The move can only be considered to be successful inthe long run, if the
partners will be able to take over most o f the FAS management responsibilities in a transparent and
accountable manner. Inthe medium term, the role o f FAS will increasingly be one o f coordination,
quality control and financial intermediation.

FAS I11will also operate in an environment that i s clearly distinct from the greater part o f FAS Iand 11.
Angola i s currently going through a transition from prolonged conflict to peace. The changed
circumstances enable FAS to expand its activities to previously inaccessible areas and to adapt its menu
o f interventions to meet the challenges o f Community Driven Development. It also enables FAS to play a
more crucial role inthe transition from post conflict emergency to development.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators to track the progress o f FAS I11are described below. Some o f these
indicators   - particularlythose related to social capital are expected to be updated on an annual basis and
                                                          -
should reflect process and outcome indicators that are generated through structured participatory
monitoring and evaluation. Each sub-component o f FAS I11will have unique indicators; however, for
aggregate purposes, the following key performance indicators apply:

(a)    Input Indicators
 0    No. o f social promoters trained
 0     No. o f Nucleus Groups (NGs)trained
 0     Improved quality o f submitted subproject proposals and C D D process
 0     No. o f Municipal Administrations (MAS)achieving respective levels o f performance (1-8) at
       MTWEOP
 0     No. o f participants attending training/workshops
 0     FAS project management systems functional and inuse
 0     FAS quality assurance system functional and inuse

(b)    Output Indicators
 0     X education sub-projects constructedrehabilitatedand adequately maintained by EOP
 0     X health sub-projects constructed/rehabilitatedand adequately maintained by EOP
 0     X o f water and sanitation facilities constructedrehabilitated and adequately maintainedby EOP
 0     X roads repairedand adequately maintained by EOP
 0     X markets constructed/rehabilitatedand adequately maintained by EOP
 0     Improvedcontractor performance under subprojects
 0     Nature and scope o f vulnerability and conflict impact identified in 10 communities
 0     Community demand for targeted support to vulnerable groups and peace buildingefforts identified
       in10communities




                                                       - 3 -

(c)  Outcome/Impact Indicators
0    Primary school enrollment increased by X%
0    Access to and usage o f health services increased by X%
     Access to and usage o f water and sanitation facilities increased by X%
0    No. of vehicles on repaired roads increasedby X% and travel time reduced by X%
     No. o f Consultative Fora (CF) created and functioning
0    80% o f participating MASachieving highest level (8) o fperformance by EOP (40% by MTR)
0    No. o f MA's staff skills, competencies and practices improved
0    No. o f Communities making use o f FAS supported mechanisms to hold MA accountable
0    X% o fproject beneficiaries satisfiedwith services providedby project

B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 25471-ANG Date of latest CAS discussion:March 27,2003

The 27 years o f armed conflict inAngola between the Government o f Angola and UNITA has had a
profound impact on all aspects o f social and economic life. Some 750,000 Angolans, or 7 percent o f the
population, have died from conflict-related causes, including famine or disease; 440,000 became refugees
and over four million were internally displaced. The conflict caused widespread poverty, weak
governance, resource mismanagement and stalled democratization. Since the signing o f the formal
ceasefire agreement on April 4,2002, by UNITA and the Government, Angola i s struggling to complete a
complex triple transition: from war to peace, from centralized to democratic government, and from a
state-controlled to a market economy.

The peace agreement provides Angola with a unique opportunity to achieve a permanent reduction in
poverty. The World Bank provides technical and financial support to the Government o f Angola's
(GOA) to plan and implement the Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy. The framework for BanWGOA
cooperation i s described inthe Transitional Support Strategy (TSS). The TSS aims to help achieve
macroeconomic stability and support implementation o f a pro-poor post-conflict public expenditure
program. It i s organized around three pillars: (i) enhancing the transparency, efficiency, and credibility
o f public resource management; (ii)   expanding service delivery to war-affected and other vulnerable
groups; and (iii) preparing the ground for broad-based pro-poor economic growth. The three TSS pillars
will be supported by a combination o f lending and non-lending programs.

The TSS lending program for the next 12 months proposes an initial IDA allocation o f US$125 million,
o f which US$55 million (44 percent) will be channeled through FAS 111. Through improving and
expanding the sustainable use o f essential social and economic services to war-affected and other
vulnerable groups FAS IIIdirectly supports TSS pillars I1and 111.Through promoting a governance
system where local government and communities are mutually accountable, and through the transparent,
efficient and credible use o f its resources, FAS I11directly supports TSS pillar I.
                                                                                   FAS I11can be
considered a cornerstone o f a limited and selective lending program that aims to help promote national
reconciliation, improve public expenditure management, expand domestic capacity for service delivery.
FAS I11can also be considered to be an important change agent inthe abovementioned triple transition.

Angola i s also a pilot LICUS country (Low-Income Countries Under Stress) and although FAS I11can
not be fully considered an "Independent Service Authority", its relative autonomy makes it a well-suited
operation to the LICUS framework. The LICUS initiative aims through a combination o f resources,
analysis and advisory services to promote good policies and contribute to development in countries
emerging from armed conflict, which are inthe early stages o f domestically generated reform, but have



                                                     - 4 -

yet weak government capacities. The World Bank and the UNDP have finalized a Framework for
Collaboration on Strategic Support for Angola, under the LICUS initiative. Strategic interventions are
planned inthe areas of: (i) governance and transparency; (ii) delivery; and (iii)
                                                                 service                capacity building.
FAS I11intends to work closely with the UNDP in all three areas.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:

(i)     Poverty and Key Social Indicators. Angola ranks 161th out o f 173 countries on UNDP's
Human Development Index for 2002, and the Millennium Development Goals are distant (see table 1
below). Per capita income totals about US$500 per year. Over two thirds o f the population live in
poverty, livingbelow US$2 a day. Almost one infour Angolans i s extremely poor, living below US$0.75
a day. To keep the number o f poor from increasing, Angola's economy would needto grow at a rate o f
about 7.3% a year. Although available data indicate that urban poverty has worsened inrecent years - to
a large extent due to the influx o f internally displaced persons (IDPs) and economically driven migrants-
poverty i s a more serious phenomenon inrural areas. A 1998 survey found that food expenditures
accounted for 76% o f total spending by rural households, evidencing an extreme degree o f food
insecurity within the rural population.

ITable
   I    1:MillenniumDevelopmentGoals2015
     Indicators                                        I Situation [Targetby 2015
                                                         in2002
  1Eradicate extreme poverty




Latest available, WB, INE, UNICEF, UNDP, and Consolidated Inter-Agency Appeal for Angola - 2003.




                                                       - 5 -

Angola's social indicators are among the worst inthe world. Malnutrition i s acute, 2001 data indicate
that 45% o f children under five suffer from stunting (low height-for-age) and 31% are underweight. Life
expectancy stands at 47 years. One o f every six children born never reaches his or her fifthbirthday.
Malaria, respiratory infections, diarrhea diseases, measles, and cholera are the main causes o f illness and
death. Sleeping sickness has reemerged as a major killer in the northwest. Primary school enrollment i s
among the lowest inAfrica. Inthe regions most affected by war just 25 percent o f children are enrolled
inprimary school. Only 27 percent o f students who enter grade 1complete grade 4. The poor access to
education has left 70 percent o f adult men and 80 percent o f women unable to read, write, or perform
basic computations.

Government Strategy: The interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper(I-PRSP). The Government's
draft interim PRSP proposes actions which can be summarized along five broad themes:

0   Undertaking economic and institutional reform (particularly inpublic finance and administration) to
    promote macroeconomic stability and sustainable growth;
0   Expanding the human capital base, by strengthening and restructuring professional training as well as
    the delivery o f health and education services;
0   Rehabilitating social and economic infrastructure, concentrating on water supply, housing,
    electricity, transportation and communication;
0   Promoting pro-poor growth through rural development, artisanal fishing, and small and micro
    enterprises, with a focus on private sector development;
0    Strengthening public sector capacity and institutions, including at the provincial and local levels
    (through restructuring and deconcentration).

The I-PRSP contains elements o f a program o f consultations with civil society, a summary o f
interventions at the sectoral level, and a preliminary monitoring and evaluation strategy, but the required
three-year macroeconomic framework i s not yet available. Inlight o f the ceasefire agreement, the
I-PRSP i s beingrevisedto focus o n a few areas where real improvements can be made inthe short run.
The Government plans to complete a fully costed I-PRSP inthe second half o f 2003.

(ii)      Increasing the Coverage and Improving Quality of Basic Social Services. Government
expenditures inthe social sectors have been traditionally low, and they declined sharply after 1991 as
military expenditures grew to absorb a large part o f the budget. The reduction of allocations for
education and health resulted in a serious deterioration o f the service delivery systems. Inthe period
1997-2001, the average health and education share allocations o f the Government's recurrent budget
reached only 3.3 and 4.7 percent respectively. This compares negatively with the SADC sub-region
averages for: health (7.2 percent) and education (16.7 percent). The social sector budget allocations in
neighboring countries such as Zambia (7.1 and 9.6 percent), Zimbabwe (9.2 and 23 percent), Namibia
(10.3 and 24.3 percent) and Botswana (5.4 and 23.1 percent) are much higher than inAngola. The budget
allocations to the social sectors are expected to be increased substantially under the I-PRSP. The
Government intends to finance operating and recurrent costs through these increased allocations.

Government Strategy: Rebuilding social infrastructure. Revitalizing the economy at the community
level i s critically important to successful reconstruction, and providing Angola's population with access
to health, education and other basic services i s undoubtedly the most urgent need in Angola today. In
particular, primary educational outcomes need to improve dramatically (they are now among the lowest
inthe world) and healthcare interventions needto be refocused on the key childkillers-malnutrition,
malaria and HIV/AIDS. T o this end, the Government aims to re-establish state administration across the
country and rehabilitate or buildbasic social and economic infrastructure.



                                                      - 6 -

(iii)   Riskand Vulnerability. A household is assumedto bevulnerable ifits capacityto cope with a
shock or risk i s severely compromised to a degree where it is forced into poverty or unable to move out
of poverty. Vulnerability thus depends on a household's types o f assets (natural, physical, financial,
human and social) as well as its exposure to risks, i.e. uncertain events that adversely affect people's
well-being. Riskexposure depends on the nature, frequency and severity o f shocks such as healthrisks,
economic shocks, social shocks, natural disasters, and lifecycle-related shocks. InAngola, the most likely
causes of vulnerability include food insecurity due to inadequate harvests; limitedassets and sources o f
income; lack o f access to markets and basic social services; overstretched, inelastic and/or maladaptive
coping mechanisms; increasingprevalence o f HIV/AIDS; disability as a result o f war-related injuriesand
landmine exposure; and compromised social fabrics as a result o f displacement and intense competition
over scarce resources.

Government Strategies:

    ThePost-Conflict Reconstruction Program. As part o f the I-PRSP, the GOA, with technical
    assistance from the Bank, i s preparing a post-conflict Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program
    (PCRRP), which i s divided into two phases.The first `priority' phase, which will be implemented
    over 2003 to 2005, will be part o f the I-PRSP and will focus on consolidating the peace and
    reestablishingstate administration throughout the country. GOA expects to appeal to donors for
    support for this program at a conference to be heldinlate 2003. The PCRRP and FAS are
    complementaryprograms from the Government point o f view, as funding comes from different
    sources.

    Revitalizing the rural sector. Agriculture provides income to about one-half o f Angolans, and
    enhancing the ability o f smallholders to increase agricultural productivity and bringtheir excess
    produce to market i s key to reducing rural poverty. To this end, the Government intends to focus on
    restoring security inthe rural areas, providing secure access to land, improving market information
    and expanding rural transportation.

    Reintegration of Ex-Combatants. The Emergency Demobilizationand Reintegration Program
    (EDRP) supports a national program that will demobilize 105,000 UNITA and 33,000 FAA
    ex-combatants and reintegrate them into civilian life. It also aims to facilitate the reallocation of
    Government expenditures from military to social purposes. The EDRP's reintegration sub-projects
    are expected to cover areas such as agricultural rehabilitation; employment generation; formal and
    informal sector training and apprenticeship; medical rehabilitation (for disabled ex-combatants); and
    family reunification (for underage ex-combatants).

    Poverty alleviation programs. To date, GOA has three multilateralpoverty alleviation programs: (i)
    the Community Rehabilitation Program(PRC) financed by the EuropeanUnion and UNDP; (ii)              the
    Angola Social Action Fund(FAS) financedby the World Bank, bilateral donors and private sector;
    and (iii)the Rehabilitation Support Program(PAR) financed bythe European Union. These
    programs have similar mandates but differ in scope and outreach. Their overall objective i s to target
    the poorest communities by providing access to sustainable basic social infrastructure, andpromoting
    economic and productive activities. FAS and PAR are currently the most visible and reach most
    beneficiaries.

(iv)    Social Reintegration and Reconstruction of Social Capital. Twenty seven years o f civil
conflict inAngola had a devastating effect on the country`s social capital. The impact o f the lengthy



                                                     - 7 -

conflict i s profound and resentments run deep. The costs o f the conflict are very high interms o f damage
to institutions o f governance and civil society and such basic attitudes and behaviors as trust and
participation. The conflict has militarized life inAngola and disrupted existing social organizations. In
light o f the national reconciliation and reconstructionprocess, there is thus an urgent needto empower
communities and individual community members to organize themselves to solve their problems and
focus on trust building.

Government Strategy: Social Reintegration. The GOA i s trying to address the social reintegration
issue through: (i)  FAS, PRC and P A R which are linked to the Ministryo f Planning; and (ii)   the
Post-Conflict Social Reintegration Strategy, which is linked to MINARS. Inan attempt to maximize the
impact o f its interventions, GOA has made greater efforts to coordinate the implementation o f its
programs at the national level. The objectives o f the Government's post-conflict social reintegration
strategy include: (i)  strengthening the dialogue andjoint decision making between civil society and
government agencies to promote democratization and human development; (ii)        promotion o f a social
reconciliation process through economic and social integration o f previously excluded vulnerable
population groups; (iii)  stimulating economic growth o f communities directly affected by the conflict
with a view to increasingtheir potential for community self-reliance; and (iv) promotingsocial
normalization, a culture o f tolerance and peaceful coexistence especially in communities receiving
returning populations.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Poverty Alleviation. FAS IIIi s an integral part o f the I-PRSP and one o f GOA's most important
instruments to fight poverty at the community and household level. With such a large proportion o f the
population living under the poverty line, any intervention to restore basic services i s extremely important.
The project will target poor communities, including vulnerable groups, and the C D D approach will
ensure that the project will address the poor's highest priorities. The project will also strengthen the
poor's abilities to better plan, budget and manage their own development processes. FAS I11i s also likely
to be a key instrument for GOA inreaching the MDGs.

Increasing the Coverage and Improving Quality of Basic Social Services. FAS supports
Government efforts to improve the quality o f life and increase the sustainable utilization o f basic social
and economic infrastructure. Duringthe first project, FAS financed about 650 basic social and economic
infrastructure subprojects, benefiting over half a million people. This was by far the largest investment
made by the GOA to improve the basic social services delivery system inrural and peri-urban areas.
FAS I1continued along these lines and financed over 1100 subprojects, benefiting close to 700,000
people. FAS I1maintained the same menu o f eligible subprojects as inthe previous phase. FAS I11will
continue to facilitate the social and economic recovery o f communities and the restoration o f basic social
and economic services through demand-driven, community-orientated projects. However, its approach
will differ so as to provide communities and local authorities with a greater role indecision-making,
planning and management o f their local development. Inaddition, FAS I11plans to open a new window
to address the needs o f vulnerable groups inan attempt to contribute to their social reintegration. Inthe
process FAS will try to reinforce community cohesion and lay the ground for the reestablishment o f
norms o f reciprocity.

Riskand Vulnerability. FAS 111will help facilitate the operationalizationo fthe Government's recently
adopted post-conflict social reintegration strategy by buildingphysical, human, and social capital at the
community level. More specifically, FAS 111will support the implementation o f the strategy's main
objectives by bringingcommunities together to jointly design and implement physical capital
rehabilitation, in a way that fosters human and social capital building. FAS 111i s expected to alleviate the



                                                      - 8 -

risks and vulnerabilities o f communities by generating and financing small and mediumsize economic
infrastructure subprojects. However, it i s unclear to what extent the most vulnerable community groups
have been able to partake inFAS Iand I1activities and benefit from services and structures provided.
Thus, inorder to assesshow the presence o fparticularly vulnerable community groups and the impact of
years o f prolonged conflict on communities affect the participatory processes that are at the core o f FAS
111,the project will entail, on a pilot basis and inline with the CDD approach, aninclusive and
participatory conflict impact and vulnerability assessment (CIVA). The purpose o f the assessment i s to
identify: (i) potential constraints to social capital buildingand thus to social reintegration, and (ii)
community demand for support to vulnerable groups and peace buildingefforts. Upon completion o f the
CIVA, fundingmay be providedunder the Project, on a sub-project basis, to respondto community
demand for concrete interventions aimed to enable vulnerable community groups to benefit from overall
project interventions, and to support community reconciliation.

Social Reintegration and Reconstructionof Social Capital. FAS 111will contribute to GOA'Sefforts
to rebuild social capital inAngola. These investments will be planned and managed according to general
principles governing programs in support o f Community Driven Development: (i)         participation and social
inclusion; (ii)empowerment and capacity development o f community based organizations and local
administrations; (iii) broad civic engagement; (iv) strengthened linkages with local government; and (v)
support to a pro-CDD enabling environment. The design o f the project i s consistent with the Africa
Region's C D D strategy, and FAS I11will be a key instrumentto implement C D D inthe Angola post
conflict context.

Decentralization and Strengthening Local Government Capacity. Between 1975 and the late 1990s,
the political conditions inAngola reinforced the political and economic concentration o f powers and
resources in the center. However, recent political and military developments and the signing o f the
ceasefire agreement inApril 2002 have providedfavorable conditions for progress with effective
decentralization. The process o f decentralization giving provincial authorities administrative, financial,
fiscal and economic independence, as outlined in the 1992 constitutional law and the 1994 Lusaka
Protocol, was seen as a prerequisite to reinforce national reconciliation and gained enthusiasm in2001
with the discussions on the Strategic Planfor Administrative Deconcentration and Decentralization
(SPADD). The SPADD has been approved by the Angolan Cabinet inJanuary 2003 and i s expected to be
presented to Parliament as an amendment to the Constitution which will re-define responsibilities o f local
government structures at the provincial, municipal and community levels.

Although full implementation o f the decentralization framework i s expected to take longer than the
implementation period o f FAS I11(based on experience from other countries), within this period it i s
expected that increasedpolitical and financial autonomy will devolve to municipal administrations and
traditional authorities. Hence, FAS I11willprepare the grounds for decentralization and promote
accountability and empowerment o f local government structures. FAS will strengthen capacities o f and
partnerships between civil society, communities and municipal governments to effectively manage
development processes towards gradual creation o f mutually accountable governance structures. FAS,
through its Community Development (CD) and Municipal Development (MD) components, will provide
municipal administrations the opportunity to work more closely with communities and thus will cultivate
a culture o f accountability and service delivery from the bottom up. Through its combined investment in
physical, human and social capital, FAS will try to create dynamic linkages between the community
driven initiatives and the local government planningprocesses.

Capacity Development. InFAS 111, capacity development i s integrated inthe project components. The
capacity development framework underlies the FAS strategy to enhance individual and organizational



                                                       - 9 -

skills, competences and abilities at community and municipal level. More specifically, it entails a
dynamic learning process at three levels o f intervention: human, organizational and institutional. Human
development entails learning processes that enhance and share individuals' knowledge, skills, talents,
attitudes and values (human capital). Organizational development refers to the ability o f people to work
together and mobilize resources through a defined set o f intra- and inter-relations to achieve objectives o f
common interest within a particular institutional context. Institutional development refers to the capacity
to enforce mechanisms, rules and norms that hold policies and organizations accountable to citizens.
From a FAS operational perspective, this means to link the efforts o f strengthening individual capabilities
and skills (human development) more directly to the internal processes and matters pertained to the
groups or organizations inwhich those individuals operate (organizational development) while adjusting
them to the overall institutional context inwhich individuals and organizations interact (institutional
development).

Strategically, the capacity development efforts  - for better subproject design, implementation and
sustainability at community level as well as for effective services delivery and accountability from
implementing partners and Municipal Administrations respectively - focus on four areas: (i)     articulate
demands at community level -facilitate participatory processes for communities and their associated
organizations to clarify and properly articulate their needs, and the means o f translating those needs into
effective demands and actions. This process also intendsto increase communities ability to negotiate
their priorities with government structures; (b) enhance the supplier's accountability to demands -
strengthen services providers, NGs, MAS,local partners' and line ministries' ability to respondmore
adequately to their constituencies, and ensure that these responses meet community demands and
sub-projects sustainability requirements; (c) establish operational networks to integrate and manage
dispersed efforts, aligning collective actions and coordinating practices among community-based,
non-governmental and governmental organizations working directly and indirectly on the sub-proj ects
and on decentralization; and (d) establish dynamic knowledge management mechanisms andplatforms to
share information and lessons learnedby documenting and disseminating the sub-projects knowledge,
experiences and impacts as well as establishing thematic debates on key conceptual and operational
issues at community, municipal, provincial and central levels.

The capacity development efforts aim to facilitate a change in FAS institutional arrangements in which
FAS staff will gradually develop the capacity to assume its envisaged role o f a financing and quality
control agency, whereas MASofficials and professional staff will become the managers o f a municipal
development plan, and communities members and their associated organizations will be able to act on
their own choices and rights to public goods, holding accountable projects and institutions that affect
their lives.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Projectcomponents(see Annex 2 for a detaileddescription and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
ComponentI(a): CommunityDevelopment (CD). Applying a CDD approach, this component would
finance local initiatives to build and restore social and economic infrastructure based on communities'
own identification, prioritization, implementation and maintenance o f small-scale sub-projects. It will
expand and improve access, management and sustainable use o f basic social and economic infrastructure,
improve governance and build social capital. The C D component will give increasing control over
decisions and resources to community groups and local level institutions, including local government;
build organizational capacity, and develop accountability mechanisms betweencommunities and formal
support institutions. The C D component will be instrumental intesting out and strengthening operational



                                                     - 10-

modalities and participatory planning processeswhich will lay the foundation for activities envisaged
under Components Ib and11.

Sub-project investments are expected to include: (i)   construction, rehabilitation or provision o f the basic
infrastructure for health, education, water and sanitation; (ii)small-scale community and municipal
infrastructure, and (iii)environmental upgrading (waste management, reforestation, etc.). FAS I11will
continue to finance activities in accordance with the guidelines set out inthe Operational Manual (the
project cycle has beenrevisedbased on the lessons learned duringthe first and secondphases o f FAS).
Sub-projects eligible for financing will have to meet technical, financial, economic, social and
environmental criteria as described inthe Operational Manual. Procedures to be followed for targeting,
social mobilization, facilitation, appraisal, approval, implementation and monitoringo f sub projects will
also be definedinthe Operational Manual (for FAS, NGs, MASand partners).

From a capacity development viewpoint, the CD component will focus on three key aspects: (a) enhance
the human and organizationalcapacities at community level; (b) improve institutional and
communication channels, relational incentives and accountability mechanisms between government
structures and community members and their associated organizations; and (c) builda comprehensive
local database comprising the communities' human, social, economic, organizational, environmental and
physical characteristics. As part o f a learning process, FAS 111will intensify its efforts inenabling
genuine community-driven development by enhancing community membersand their associated
organizations skills in social promotion, community mobilizationand participation inlocal development
planning and management. Capacity development efforts will be strategically provided along the project
cycle in accordance with the practical tasks involved. Particular attention will be paid to collaborative
facilitation and participatory planning exercises to be carried out by FAS staff.

Component I(b): ConflictImpact andVulnerabilityAssessment (CIVA). Component I(a) fosters
human capital buildingby bringingcommunities together to design and implement physical capital
rehabilitation, and by buildingcommunity capacity. However, at the time o f project preparation, it i s
uncertain how the particularity o f the post-conflict context constrains or fosters social capital building,
which i s one o f the principalproject development objectives. Inother words, it remains to be determined
which population groups have beenmost adversely affected by the recent conflict interms o f their ability
to escape poverty and to be involved inthe participatory processesthat are at the core o f FAS III.A
Conflict Impact and Vulnerability Assessmentwill thus be undertaken, on a pilot basis in a total o f 10
communities, to identifypotential constraints to and opportunities for social capital building.The
participatory assessment i s expected to provide information on: (i)  the nature and scope ofvulnerability
at the community level, traditional means for assisting vulnerable community members, and the extent to
which vulnerable population groups have been able to benefit from structures and services provided
under FAS; (ii)  the impact o f conflict at the community level and war-affected communities'
commitment and capacity to negotiate differentviewpoints and engage intruly collective action around a
common goal; and (iii)   the nature and scope of community demand for targeted support to vulnerable
groups and peacebuildingefforts.

Upon completion o f the CIVA, a decision will be made by FAS management and IDA,based on the
practical guidance provided by the assessment, as to: (i)  whether a sub-project window should be made
available, on apilot basis, to respondto community demand for supportive services to assist vulnerable
groups and community reconciliation activities; and (ii)   ifso, what types ofinterventionscould
realistically be supported under FAS. Inlight o f the multi-sectoral nature o f FAS activities, its significant
contribution to social capital building,and its unprecedentedexperience inthe area o f community-led
provision o f basic services, FAS I11would provide a unique window o f opportunity for respondingto
community demand for support to vulnerable groups and peace buildingactivities.


                                                     -11  -

Component11: MunicipalDevelopment(MD). The MDcomponent will contribute towards the
achievement o f the twin overall objectives o f the FAS I11program by assisting municipal governments
(including municipal administrations and municipal councils) with capacity development and financial
resources to become proficient inthe provision o f social and economic services to communities. The
Municipal Administration (MA) i s the decision-making body which i s headed by an Administrator who
i s appointed by central government. The Municipal Council or Consultative Forum, which i s referred to
as Conselho de Concertacao, is an advisory body to the MA which includes representatives from
communities and civil society. Over the implementation period o f the project, municipal governments
will be expected: (i) gradually become proficient invarious activities o f the CD sub-project cycle (i.e.
                      to
sensitization, participatory needs assessment, appraisal, approval, etc) and take over responsibility from
FAS management; and (ii)     to prepare, finance and implement municipal level sub-projects in a phased
manner according to their own speed and implementation capacity. These municipal level projects will
be prepared based on CDDprinciples and based on a municipal development plan.

Based on a graduation scheme and specific eligibility criteria (as outlined inthe Operational Manual), the
MDcomponent will provide municipalgovernments: (i)           financing for capacity development activities;
and (ii) "administrative grants" to cover their operating costs and carry out all activities o f the C D
sub-project cycle with a view to eventually develop, implement and monitor their municipal development
plans, Those municipalities which are advanced intheir implementation capacity (to be assessed
bi-monthly based on the municipal graduation scheme and measurable targets as outlined inAnnex 2)
will be eligible for additional funds to finance social and economic infrastructure sub-projects, which
will be operated and maintainedby the municipal administration.

Capacity development activities will be at the heart o f the graduation scheme, and will be strategically
promoted in accordance with the required tasks the MASwill undertake at each level. They include
capacity assessments; training o f trainers; tailor made workshops; on-the-job exercises; field visits;
coordination; networking; database development, analysis and updating; questionnaires; checklists and
provisiono f equipment. From a capacity development perspective, the MD component aims to facilitate
a change ininstitutional arrangements by devolving present FAS functions to eligible MAS.The ultimate
goal o f this graduation `learning' process i s to nurture the development o f FAS capacity to assume its
envisaged role o f a financing and quality control agency while the MASwill become the managers o f a
project portfolio within the context o f a municipal development plan to deliver accountable public goods
through participatory processes to communities. The capacity development activities will be incremental
with enough time and resources available for FAS to capacitate the MASand MCs, and to buildthe
necessary mechanisms for knowledge management and institutional collaborative networking among line
ministries,Provincial Governments, MAS,NGs andpotential implementing partners.




                                                                 I           1            1I            11       I
  (i)CommunityDevelopment
  (ii)MunicipalDevelopment                                           10.00          8.3           4.40       8.0
  (iii)InstitutionalStrengthening                                      8.00         6.7           5.50      10.0
  (iv) Operational Costs                                             14.50          12.1          6.60      12.0
                                            Total Project Costs     120.00        1on.n I       55nn       inn n
                                                                                  100.0   I     55.00   II 100.0




                                                      - 1 2 -

2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supportedby the project:
Consistencywith InterimPoverty ReductionStrategy. FAS I11is an integral part o fthe GOA'S
poverty reduction strategy. The project directly supports the expansion o f the human capital base through
improving quality and access o f basic social and economic services. It also directly promotes institutional
reform at the community and district levels. As an institution, FAS has become a key partner and
stakeholder inthe Government's consultation process on poverty reduction.

Consistencywith Sectoral Standardsand Guidelines. FAS has developed technical standards for the
most commonly built types o f infrastructure (classrooms, health posts, boreholes, etc.) which are either
consistent with national standards whenever these are approved and available, or have been discussed
with relevant line-ministries and provincial authorities incase no national standards are available. FAS
has also ensured that technical standards take into account the varying climatic conditions present inthe
different areas o f the country. Several FAS performance assessments have indicated that the average
costs of FAS subprojects are lower than the cost o f similar infrastructure built by line-ministries or other
institutions. For FAS 111the technical standards and guidelines are currently under review.

Consistencywith DecentralizationPolicy. Within the context o fthe imminent institutional changes
that will devolve increased political and financial autonomy to municipal administrations and the
traditional authorities, FAS I11will concentrate on strengthening, through capacity development
activities, MAScapacities as well as on establishing strategic partnerships among civil society,
communities and local governments to effectively manage development processes, and create mutually
accountable governance structures.

3. Benefitsand target population:
Benefits. Inlighto f the demand-driven nature and the ensuinguncertainty about geographic coverage,
location and number o f sub-projects and thus number o f beneficiaries, it i s difficult to provide a
quantitative estimate o f the project's envisaged benefits. However, the results achieved duringthe first
two phases o f FAS are considerable. FAS Iand I1reached over 1.2 million beneficiaries over a period o f
9 years, and the impact of the activities i s substantial (Annex 4 summarizes some o f the main results o f
FAS Iand 11).FAS I11i s expected to benefit communities, municipal, and provincial administrations as
well as project partners inthe form o f improved physical, social and human capital.

Target Population. The target populations are poorer communities inrural and peri-urban areas, with a
particular emphasis on the inclusion o f the most vulnerable community groups. Inline with the project's
concerted capacity development effort, municipal administrations and other project partners with a stake
inlocal development will also form an integral part o fthe target "groups".

TargetingMechanisms. Duringphases Iand11,FAS has been operatingthrough 9 offices innine
provinces (Bengo, Benguela, Cabinda, Huambo, Huila, Luanda, Namibe, Kuanza Sul and Kunene). FAS
I11is expected: (i) continue to work inall the districts (municipios) it is currently working; (ii)
                     to                                                                              to
expand into additional municipios in the nine existing FAS provinces; and (iii)     to expand into municipios
innew project provinces. The expansion intonew municipios andnew provinces isbasedon two
financing scenarios. Scenario I(US$70 million) assumes the availability o f committed IDA, GOA,
community, bilateral and private sector resources. Scenario I1(US$l20 million) assumes, in addition, a
contribution from the European Commission inthe amount o f Euro 45 million, which i s expected to be
available for FAS in September 2004.




                                                     - 1 3 -

Based on the l o w ($70 million) or high($120 million) case scenario, FAS I11will follow two geographic
expansion strategies. Under the low case scenario, in its first year o f operation, FAS I11will expand to the
new provinces o f Bie and Zaire. Inaddition, FAS will expand into new municipios inthe nine provinces
inwhich it is already operating. Inthe second year, FAS111,after review o fresources and
implementation, will decide whether to expand to the Northernprovincial cluster (Uige, Malange and
Kwanza Norte) where large numbers o f displaced populations are returning or expected to return and
where the impact o f war has been devastating. Under the highcase scenario, over the four years o f the
program, FAS I11will be expected to expand into 7 provinces over the life o f the project.

Coverage and expansion within provinces; Le. number and location o f beneficiary municipalities and
communities will be determined by priorities, needs, the enabling operating environment and FAS
implementation capacity. I t i s expected that inthe new provinces, FAS will initially support two
municipalities and expand to two more in subsequent years o f the program. Similarly, FAS will expand
to two municipalities per year inprovinces where it i s already operating as well. Inaddition,
municipalities to benefit from M D C would have to be previous beneficiaries o f FAS Iand/or 11and fulfill
the eligibility criteria outlined inthe Operational Manual.


                             Existing FAS Provinces               New FAS Provinces
 September '03-'04            1new municipio ineach province 1municipio inBie
                                                                 1municiuio inZaire
 September '04-'05            1new municipio ineach province 1new municipio inBie
                                                                 1new municipio inZaire
 September '04-'05            1new municipio ineach province 1new municipio inBie
                                                                 1new municipio inZaire


                             Existing FAS Provinces               New FAS Provinces
 September '03-'04            1new municipio ineach province 1municipio inBie
                                                                 1municipio inZaire
 September '04-'05            1new municipio ineach province 1new municipio inBie
                                                                 1new municipio inZaire
                                                                 3 municipios inNorth Cluster (Uige,
                                                                 Malange, Kwanza Norte)
 September '05'06             1new municipio ineach province 1new municipio inBie
                                                                 1new municipio inZaire
                                                                 3 new municipios inNorth Cluster
                                                                 3 municipios in South-East Cluster
                                                                 (Moxicoand Cuando Cubango)
 September '06-'07            TBD                                 TBD

For the CD component, beyond the geographic targeting, FAS program funds will be allocated per
province based on a poverty, population, and past performance/absorption capacity formula. The formula
will be developed by FAS inconsultation with provincial/municipal administrations and INE.
Subsequent to this notional allocation and following the launch o f the program, FAS will hold provincial
level consultations and administer a geographic profiling exercise which will determine broadly priority
geographic areas of intervention and needs within a province. Once these areas are identified, social



                                                    -1 4 -

promotion will focus on communities within these areas and funds will be applied to community projects
on a first-come-first serve basis. Annex 5 presents two preliminary FAS financing scenarios covering the
yearly provincial budget allocations

For the MD component, FAS program funds will be allocated towards administrative and project grants.
Both grants will have annual ceilings and will be disbursedbased on approvedbudgets. Beneficiary
municipalities will be selected based on eligibility criteria (political will, civil society presence, existence
o f key municipal administration staff, and ease o f access by FAS) which are outlined inthe Operational
Manual. Beneficiary municipalities will be selected from within the existing and new provinces FAS
will operate in.Municipalitieswhich reachLevel 7 o fthe Municipal Graduation Scheme will be eligible
for grant funds for community sub-projects to be implementedby MASand communities. The
community sub-projects will have been formulated following C D D guidelines and principles, and would
be part o f a municipal development plan.

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
FAS will retain its core institutional and implementation arrangements, as described in the revised
Operational Manual. Duringproject appraisal, the document has been revised to include the
implementation arrangements for the new components and to incorporate the arrangements that will
accommodate the implementation o f the broader strategic objective o f strengthening the three types o f
capital (physical, human and social). Some o f the project's main features will also be modified, based on
lessons learned, to maximize efficiency and effectiveness inimplementation.

ImplementationPeriod: Four years

ExecutingAgency and its Structure. FAS is an autonomous institution created by the GOA with
Ministerial Decree n. 44/94 to support the government in fighting poverty. It i s under the umbrella o f the
MinistryofPlanningand has been granted a highdegree of autonomy concerning administrative,
financial and management procedures. It currently consists o f a central management unit and 9 provincial
offices.  The fund operates ina fully decentralized way, with each provincial office responsible for
selection and implementation o f activities within its geographical area, and with resources allocated from
the center directly to provincial accounts. Procurement activities are also carried out at the provincial
level. FAS has a National Board o f Overseers, which includes representatives from governmental, as
well as non-governmental, institutions and civil society. The Board ensures that the activities financed
by the fundrespondto the objectives for which it was created. Another Board, similar instructure and
composition, operates at each province level to ensure that FAS priorities are consistent with provincial
priorities, and to guarantee the involvement o f line-ministries inthe funds activities. Detailed
informationon the FAS institutional structure i s provided in the revised Operational Manual.

The geographic expansion o f FAS will be facilitated through a concurrent gradual expansion o f the
institutional structure. Inthe new provinces the project i s planning to open up new FAS offices, which
will either be managed by FAS staff or through antenna organizations (NGOs/firmsthat will function as
a provincial FAS office). Inthe initial phase o f each expansion a multi-disciplinary team from existing
FAS offices will provide support inthe new province interms o f recruitment, training, logistics and
mobilization o f communities. FAS anticipates that new offices will be established inthese new provinces
once the operating environment allows. The development o f the expansion plan and the required changes
inthe institutional structure will be based on an assessment o fthe demand for FAS intervention, cost of
the expansion logistics, availability o f resources in addition to IDA, human resource requirements,
availability o f certain basic infrastructure and o f implementation partners, as well as FAS and partner's
human, organziational and institutional capacity.



                                                       -15-

MainImplementationArrangements. For the CD component, FAS 111will retain the institutional and
implementation arrangements that have applied in FAS 11, although greater attention will be applied to
the collaborative planning exercises to be carried out in conjunction with the local administrations
(including preparation, appraisal/approval, supervision and monitoring and evaluation). This will provide
an important foundation for implementation arrangements envisaged for the MD Component. The FAS
project cycle  - asdescribed in detail inthe Operational Manual - stipulates arrangements for eight phases,
namely: (i)  planning and promotion; (ii) identification; (iii)preparation; (iv) appraisal and approval; (v)
execution; (vi) supervision; (vii) handover; and (viii) evaluation. Inorder to be eligible for FAS support,
a community needs to have established a Nhcleo Comunitirio (NC) which will have responsibility for
community mobilization, planning, preparation and implementation o f sub-proj ects.

The MD component will primarily be executed bymunicipal administrations and municipal councils
(Consultative ForudConselho do Concertacao) with technical and logistic support from FAS central and
provincial management teams, partner organizations such as NGOs, other service providers and
participation from communities and civil society. Different municipal administrations are expected to be
at different Levels o f the graduation scheme towards assuming full responsibility o f preparation and
implementation o f community development projects by the end o f the four year program. Duringthe
program implementation period, FAS management, at each level o f the graduation scheme, will transfer
more of its implementation responsibilities onto the MAS.FAS will therefore become more o f a
facilitator, supervisor providing funds, logistics, technical support and quality control to the local
development process. FAS provincial staff will be the direct linkwith the MASand will be responsible
for supervision and follow-up on day-to-day implementation. Duringthis devolution process, provincial
administrations and partner organizations are also expected to provide technical support to MAS.
Capacity buildingi s expected to be provided by a number o f service providers under the guidance o f FAS
management on a regional basis. Further details o f the implementation arrangements are elaborated inthe
Operational Manual and reflected inthe Municipal Graduation Scheme.

The MD component will be overseen by a Provincial Coordination Committee (inwhich FAS will be
included) which will provide advice to municipal administrations on their development activities and
ensure that municipal development plans are incorporated into provincial and national plans and that
sustainability o f development activities at the local levels are ensured. Municipal administrations will be
expected to provide regular progress reports to this committee at quarterly meetings.

FinancialManagement. Since this is a repeat project, duringappraisal, the Bank mission reviewed the
FAS I1financial management system (FMS) to determine whether the financial management
arrangements, including the systems o f accounting, reporting, auditing, and internal controls are
acceptable and provide the National Coordination Unit and IDA with accurate and timely information
regarding resources and expenditures. The FMS review took into account the new risks involved with the
expansion o f activities and the involvement o f municipalities planned for FAS III.

The current financial management software i s considered capable o f recording correctly all transactions
and balances, supporting the preparation o f regular and reliable financial statements. However, this
system has not been able so far to produce Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) in accordance with
Bank's requirements. Before Effectiveness, therefore, a financial management system acceptable by the
Bank and providing FMRneeds to be put inplace, and FAS staff needs to be adequately trained.

FAS does not have any staff with recognized accounting qualification. However, the FAS I1financial and
accounting staff do have valuable practical experience o f the Bank's F M S requirements and also o f the



                                                     - 16-

financial management systems and capacities inthe provincial offices. For FAS HI, it i s expected that the
financial management workload will increase considerably and that the transfer o f financial management
responsibilities to municipal administration furthermore entails an increased risk due to the lack o f FMS
capacity at the municipal level. Before Effectiveness, therefore, FAS I11needs to enhance its financial
management system and include more stringent internal controls. The FMS needs to be strengthened by
the recruitment o f a qualified accountant as financial controller and FAS needs to put inplace an internal
control function (financial and technical audit), which will report to the National Coordination
Committee. The responsibilities o f the internal audit will include, but are not limited to, the audit o f
subprojects financed by IDA funds.

The FAS I1Operational Manual does not address all the required financial management and internal
control issues. Therefore, before Effectiveness, the project financial management system needs to be
updated and fully documented inproject-specific Financial Management Procedural Manuals, which will
cover financial policies and procedures, accounting and internal control system, financial reporting, flow
o f funds and auditing arrangements. The Manuals need to address all these arrangements at central,
provincial and municipality levels. The Manuals will also include the terms o f reference o f the financial
management staff and the auditors.

Fundsflow. As inFAS 11,a FAS 111special account maintained inUnited States dollars will be opened
and operated by the NCU. Funds will be transferred to FAS provincial offices for approved plan
activities. The main difference inthe flow o f funds o f FAS I11is that provincial offices will also advance
funds to eligible municipalities for subprojects and incremental operating costs.

Accounting. FAS will maintain the accounting records for the entire project. Itwill also be responsible
for the effective and timely production o f the annual financial statements as well as the FMRsaccording
to Bank's requirements. Before Effectiveness, an IDA financial management specialist will carry an
assessment o f the project financial management system to ensure its soundness and capability to provide
accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures.

Audit arrangements. Qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointedon approved
terms o f reference. The external audit will cover all IDA funds, World Bank administered funds (such as
trust funds), bilateral and private sector contributions, and Counterpart funds. The IDA Credit Agreement
will require the submission o f audited financial statements to the Bank within six months after the
year-end. The formats to be adopted will be documented inthe Financial Procedures Manual. Besides
expressing a primary opinion on the audited financial statements incompliance with International
Auditing Standards, the auditor will be requiredto include a separate paragraph commenting on the
accuracy and propriety o f expenditures withdrawn under SOE procedures and the extent to which these
can be relied upon as a basis for loan disbursements. Regarding the Special Accounts, the auditor will
also be expected to form an opinion as to the degree o f compliance with World Bank procedures and the
balances at the year-end. Inaddition to the audit report, the auditor will be required to prepare a separate
Management Letter giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for
improvements o f accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants inthe
IDA Agreement.

Procurement. The FAS 111Project is the continuation o f two previous IDA financed projects and will
count on experienced procurement staff familiar with Bank procedures and documentation. This implies
better planning capacity and faster inception o f implementation activities. As a consequence, higher
monetary thresholds than those used in the FAS Iand I1project have been proposed for simpler
procurement methods such as shopping thus reducing the number o f procurement actions subject to prior
review. Insum, a better performance and transparency i s expected under FAS 111.


                                                     - 17-

Monitoring and Evaluation(M&E). The objective o fmonitoring and evaluation is the establishment
o f complimentary learning cycles within the FAS program inorder to both maximize the quality and
outputs o f knowledge and feedback on FAS-supported initiatives and to buildcapacities and ownership
amongst different stakeholders inthe process. A principal outcome o f a successful M&E system i s the
improvement o f mutual accountability between different stakeholders. A more comprehensive yet
streamlined M&E system will therefore be critical for FAS 111. The M&E system for FAS I11will
integrate participatory qualitative approaches with more quantitative ones, M&Ei s seen as a continuous
activity, which will focus on measuring and controlling performance inproject execution, as well as on
systematically collecting data on the impact of project activities on the direct beneficiaries. It will be
used for ongoing decision-making, re-planning and adjusting, and forward planning.

Enhanced effort inFAS I11will be directed to the task o f developing and supporting tailor-made
participatory monitoring and evaluation (PM&E) cycles at the level o f community and local
administration (methodology design, selection o f indicators, analysis and use/dissemination). PM&E
designs should reflect the management capacity o f applicable stakeholders (Le. PM&E at community
level should be simple and straightforward so that it can be managed and sustained by
communities/NCs). Roles and responsibilities at different levels need to be aligned so as make
articulation between monitoring at community, local administration and FAS program levels possible.
PM&E cycles need to be related to appropriate communication strategies and to the overall design o f the
SIFAS management information system.

PM&E i s not only concerned with recording and reporting on project inputsand outputs, but i s also
intimately related to how different stakeholders, usingparticipatory methods, can be facilitated in
collecting and analyzing information for their own use and for holding others to account on their
performance. Overall operational aspects o f the FAS program will continue to be monitored internally
and externally through a posteriori evaluations, audits and beneficiary assessments. The objective o f this
monitoring i s improved information for management decision-making.

The Management Information System inFAS (SIFAS) i s designed to monitor physical progress and
outcomes and link them to financial expenditures. SIFAS i s expected to provide informationon the
overall performance o f FAS at a provincial and national level. Key monitoring indicators will include:

0    Qualitative process indicators (mobilization, quality o f participatory planning, decision-making,
     levels o f satisfaction and perceptions o f quality, etc.);
0    Business process indicators (duration o f each stage o f sub-project processing; time lapse from receipt
     o f sub-project application by N C to start o f implementation; duration o f project implementation);
0    Input/OutputIndicators (number o f sub-project proposals submitted; number and cost o f sub-projects
     approved; number o f sub-projects implemented (planned vs actual); number o f NCs established and
     trained; number o f launch workshops staged; number o f beneficiaries);
0    Outcome/impact indicators (perceptions o f impact, quality, utility and satisfaction; maintenance and
     sustainability likelihood; impacts on community, family, individual; relations)

Supervision. The complexity o f the project and its geographical spread will require that a stronger
financial management supervision will be carried out by the project F M S at least once a year. In
addition, the project would be submitted to regular SOE reviews as required by the World Bank.




                                                       -18-

D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternatives consideredand reasons for rejection:
Continuingwith FAS I1methodology-with focus on improvingaccess and use of social and
economic infrastructure.FAS has been operating successfully over almost 10years achieving its
objectives towards improving access and use o f social and economic infrastructure. FAS has been a
major conduit at the local level for starting to build a dialogue and providing resources to communities
and their partners for their development needs primarily due to the institutional and financial weaknesses
o f the local government structures. However, increasedpolitical discussion on decentralization and
recent progress with introducing necessary changes to the institutional, legal and financial structure o f
local governments, signal an increased political will inAngola towards decentralization. Within this
context, FAS, as an experienced and effective financier and implementer o f development activities, has a
unique opportunity to transfer its experiences and knowledge on community driven development to local
government staff and other local development partners.

Pursuing a more traditional approachto capacity building. FAS 111will have capacity development
at community and municipal government levels at its core, seeking to reinforce participatory and
accountable processes o f decision-making, resource allocation, planningand management o f basic social
and economic infrastructure at both levels. Capacity development was chosen as a more comprehensive
concept as opposed to capacity building. The concept and practice moves away from an individual
training-based and organization-specific approach (capacity building)into one that links both individual
and organizational dimensions o f skills, competences and assets enhancement with the overall
institutional system inwhich they operate.

Consolidationof FAS in existingprovinces. FAS inits thirdphase is expected to expandits operations
beyond the nine provinces it currently operates. FAS will also look into expanding its activities within
the nine provinces it currently operates beyond the current municipalities to ideally cover all
municipalities.

Appropriatelendingtool and timeframe for program. Currently the FAS 111program is designed as a
three/four year program primarily due to the available IDA allocation for Angola as a post-conflict
country. Based on international experience, implementation o f the Government's decentralization
process and the transfer o f implementation responsibilities o f development activities as envisaged under
the FAS I11program are expected to last much beyond the four year duration o f the program. However, in
light o f the uncertainpolicy environment, the adaptable program loan (APL) was viewed as an
inappropriate instrument because o f the policy triggers required. The inadequate IDA allocation and the
time period covered under the Angola TSS do further not allow for an A P L at this point intime.

2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoingand planned).
                                                                                  Latest SI betvision
               Sector Issue                             Project
                                                                              (Bank-finance projects only)
                                                                                     (PSW    atings

                                                                             Implementation    Development
 Bank-financed                                                                Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
 Post-Conflict Reconstruction              Post-Conflict Reconstruction            S                S
                                           ( P W
 DemobilizatiodReintegration               Demobilization&


                                                     - 19-

                                        Reintegration
 Re-integration o f war-vulnerable      Post-Conflict Social Recovery               S                S
population
Other development agencies
 Community Rehabilitation               PRC/UNDP
 Rehabilitation Support                 EU
 Local Governance                        SNV/GTZ




Lessonsfrom international experience with socialfunds and CDDprograms indicate that success is
contingent upon:

   transparency and accountability, which are bolsteredby clear resource allocation criteria and
   operational guidelines, reliable independent audits and evaluations, an effective management
   information system, and vigilant supervisionby external financing agencies
   operational eficiency
   clear, simple and understandable procurement and disbursement procedures
   competitive salaries and freedom from normal government recruitment to ensure that the most
   competent staff are recruited and kept
   proper targeting mechanisms
   integration o f environmental concerns inindividual sub-projects
   capitalizing on monitoring and evaluation systems, includingbeneficiary and social assessments to
   quickly adjust operating procedures to respond to beneficiary concerns
   clear objectives and consistency with national development strategies
   evolution of the role of socialfunds from infrastructure providers to agents o f change buildingsocial
   capital and shaping local development processes.

Lessons on the role of socialfunds in the decentralizationprocess:

0  The experience to date indicates that social funds can help build demand for effective
   decentralization by strengthening the core capacities and processes and bybuildingmutual
   accountability mechanisms among local stakeholders/institutions (Le. local governments,
   communities, civil society, etc.), however, without the actual institutional and fiscal devolution o f
   authority and resources to local levels in due course, it i s not very likely that the social fund efforts
   will be sustainable inthe long term.

0  Incountries where a decentralizationpolicy is not yet inplace or where it is not fully implemented,
   the process o f local government strengthening, or more specifically assisting them to become
   competent with community driven development principles requires a careful and timely roll-out o f
   well monitored activities to mitigate against weak institutional capacities (staff, equipment, legal
   mandate, etc). Thus, the expectations out o f a social fund supporting these processes should be
   realistic and not overly ambitious.




                                                   - 20 -

Lessonsfrom FAS Iand 11:

0   Policy coordination at the national andprovincial level to ensure consistency and sustainability:
    FAS Iand I1experiences indicate the need to strengthen the coordination mechanisms at the national
    and provincial levels, namely with other poverty alleviation programs, the I-PRSP, inter-ministerial,
    to ensure consistency and complementarity among various implementers and sustainability o f the
    social and economic infrastructure built and processes put inplace by FAS and similar programs.

0   Need to strengthenpartnerships at the local and national level and transfer skills: through
    knowledge management, and dissemination o f experiences among provinces, municipalities and
    communities; more frequent training, seminars and workshops; gradual transfer o f responsibilities
    along the sub-project cycle; and change o f FAS role into more institutional impact on municipal
    governance structures, contributing to promote accountable and demand-driven local development
    processes.

0   Building social capital at the local levelfor better allocation and management of resources: need to
    better integrate the CDD approach into the implementation processes o f FAS to builda consultative
    decision-making environment at the local level including local governments, communities and other
    stakeholders.

0   Importance of creating transparent management mechanisms: such as monitoring and evaluation,
    procurement, financial management, project management to ensure sustainability o f assets created.

0   Standardization of subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs: standardization simplifies
    the subproject preparation and evaluation process, improves the quality o f subprojects, facilitates the
    procurement o f goods and works, prevents over-design and enables participation by poorer
     communities.

0   Environmental Protection Criteria: because o f their small scale, most subprojects do not have a
     significant effect o n the environment. Nevertheless, a detailed environmental checklist was
     developed and has been updated.

0    Sustainability and Maintenance: should be strengthened through (i) creation o f maintenance
                                                                           the
     support committees early inthe sub-project cycle, inparallel to the provision o f skills enhancement
     to communities and MASconcerning their roles and responsibilities, (ii)   experimentation with
     preventive maintenance funds, and improved coordination with sector ministries, provincial
     governments and better alignment with national poverty alleviation programs.

 4. Indications of borrower commitmentand ownership:
 The Government has indicated its commitment to continue to house FAS inthe Ministryo f Planning as
 an operationally complex multi-sector project and integral part o f the Government I-PRSP with its
 support for strengthening public sector capacity and institutions at the provincial and local level, and
 rehabilitating social and economic infrastructure. Inaddition, the Government also indicated that it will
 provide up to 15% o f the IDA contribution as counterpart financing.

 5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:
 The Bank will bringits experiences o f over 30 years on social funds as well as its expertise insupporting



                                                    - 2 1-

decentralization processes more specifically strengthening local institutional capacity. The Bank has
traditionally played a leadership role inpoverty alleviation programs inAngola, and hopes to use its
favorable position inthe country and sector to leverage financial resources from a number o f bi-lateral
donors, private sector and government, and to bringtogether various implementers to work under one
implementation framework

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)

'sCost
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
         benefit        NPV=US$ million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
cOther    (specify)

The basic guidingprinciple that FAS sub-project outputs are based on future community-led demand
makes a precise ex-ante calculation o f the cost-effectiveness, rate o f return and fiscal impact difficult - if
not inaccurate - particularly as FAS will be shiftingtoward substantial expansion activities. Inaddition,
the programmatic focus on long term social capital gains as opposed to short term private capital gains
limitsthe ability to quantify precise cost-benefit ratios andor economic rates o freturn. Havingnotedthe
inherent limitations to do a rigorous cost-effectiveness analysis, useful information is available from the
previous FAS I& I1projects, which can guide an indicative analysis on cost effectiveness.

FAS I11will employ and improve upon measures carried out under FAS I& I1to minimize cost while
ensuring the quality o f sub-project outputs and services delivered. Experience has shown that the
operational costs runby FAS managed projects are consistently lower than those providedby the
government and by other organizations carrying out similar projects. Unit construction costs o f
classrooms under FAS are 40% lower than those implemented by the Ministryo f Public Works. While
the range incosts for providingpotable water varies very greatly, FAS costs have at times been20%
lower than some NGOs. Inall cases, FAS quality has been up to standard.

This level o f cost-effectiveness i s made possible by several program components: (i) demand-driven
                                                                                            the
nature o f sub-projects enables scarce resources to go directly to the community inthe areas which
demonstrate the greatest need. Addressing these urgent priorities thus allows for the greatest benefit or
impact, from the amount o f available resources; (ii)   standard, well-tested screening procedures are put in
place for all approved sub-projects. These screening mechanisms providedby FAS staff and technical
consultants identify only those sub-projects which are economically viable and those that will create the
most benefit from limited financial resources; (iii)  inaddition to screening procedures, FAS staff offer
and require from proposals standard technical design models for all infrastructure built. These models
have been developed from years o f national experience to allow for the greatest level o f cost-efficiency
and quality o f construction; (iv) the precondition o f a 10% community contribution inherently promotes
community ownership o f resources used. As a result, communities provide close management o f the
scarce resources they both offer and benefit from. Moreover, this creates a commitment to maintain the
on-going productive life o f the created assets; (v) lastly, with growing experience FAS has continually
decreased already low overhead costs, comparedto similar organizations and government contracting,
allowing the large majority, over 80%, o f FAS resources to flow directly to the community. The
administrative overheads under FAS Iand I1have been as low as 9.4 percent averaging around 18.4
percentage over a five year period.

Inorder to facilitate and improve possibilities ofaccurately measuringthe benefits ina more consistent
and clear manner under FAS 111,the informationmanagement system will be improved. This will be



                                                      - 22 -

geared towards capturing information such as: (i) costs standards; (ii) extent o f utilization o f
                                                     unit                     the
assets created under FAS 111; and (iii)  the economic and social benefits derived, both directly and
indirectly. Inthis way it would be possible inthe future to more accurately measure the costs and
benefits, and estimate the economic rates o f return o f individual subprojects and o f FAS as a whole.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)

Recurrent Cost Implications. The financing o f operating and recurrent costs (particularly within the
health sector) has been a problem that FAS has beenwatching carefully. To address this FAS will
continue to: (i) preference to rehabilitation o f already operating facilities (wherever this option i s
                  give
available and proved to be cost-effective) rather than construction o f new ones; (ii) on agreements
                                                                                         insist
with relevant line-ministries and provincial authorities on recurrent costs coverage as a pre-condition for
subproject financing; and (iii)  seek extensive collaboration with Churches and NGOs which will
eventually operate and maintain the facilities (particularly effective inthe health sector). Recurrent costs
are often the responsibility o f line ministries, combined with an operations management system that upon
implementation will be supported by community groups and/or local government, depending on the type
o f project. In situations where NGOs and civil society are required to facilitate, it i s expected that these
partner institutions will take care o f operating costs. Inthe majority o f FAS projects that communities
have opted for, recurrent costs are taken care o f (all FAS 11projects are functioning and are being
maintained, which i s also the case for 92 percent o f the FAS Iprojects).

Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact o f FAS projects has been kept to a sustainable minimumthrough community
contribution. This makes a significant cost saving on the part of government. For instance, communities
contributed 5.8 percentage o f the total cost o f FAS Iwhich i s quite comparable to what government
counterpart contribution was, 7.8 percent. The expected community contribution under FAS I11remains
the same. The spirit o f self help ensures not only commitment, ownership and full utilization o f the
assets, it also provides an avenue for skills transfer and hence ensuring simple maintenance o f assets.
Continued maintenance o f the assets created such as boreholes prolongs the community contribution
which i s often ignored. The scope o f the fiscal impact will depend largely on the extent o f government
contributions, which has yet to be confirmed.

3. Technical:
The technical quality o f FAS infrastructures has been evaluated on a regular basis during FAS Iand FAS
11,usingBeneficiary Assessments, ex-post evaluations and through the on-going FAS monitoring
processes. These assessments highlighta highdegree o f satisfaction from the beneficiaries, local
government and line ministries. The project's technical designs are based on the use o f simple,
appropriate and environmentally sound technologies, corresponding to the needs and capabilities (for
construction, as well as for operation and maintenance) o f the communities. The design and standard o f
sub-projects will continue to be based on the norms and standards o f technical ministries with the
approval o f the Ministryo f Public Works. Inorder to involve the communities and municipal
administrations in constituting their sub-project portfolio, FAS I11will develop standard manuals o f
typical sub-projects to be disseminated at the community level. Labor intensive work will be preferred
wherever proven as technically and economically efficient and insofar as it generates employment
opportunities. Innovations in technical design o f subprojects will be encouraged while keeping inmind
the need for technical, financial and implementation capability. Investment costs for the project are
based on prevailing market unit costs.




                                                      - 23 -

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
FAS National and Provincial Offices; Provincial and Municipal Governments; Implementing Partners
such as NGOs, CBOs, and private sector firms; and Communities and Nucleos Groups.
4.2 Project management:
FAS national and provincial offices, and Municipal Administrations.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The Project will have an annual Procurement Review.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management capacity i s generally weak inAngola especially at the provincial and
municipalities level. Eligible municipalities will manage for the first time directly Bank' funds. Intensive
on-the-job training by FAS I11and an effective assessment o f the financial management capacity o f
eligible municipalities and provinces will be necessary.

Inorder to establish an acceptable control environment and to mitigate financial managementrisk,
measures, as outlined inthe Financial Management Action Plan contained inAnnex 6B, should be taken.
These measures will be taken from the Project's inception to establish a strong control environment and
to mitigate financial management risks.
5. Environmental:                          Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and E M P preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An Environmental and Social ManagementFramework (ESMF) is neededbecause the project will
support rehabilitation o f community-based infrastructure (through a participatory mechanism) with the
potential o f some localized environmental impacts. This infrastructure includes sectors such as health,
education, water and sanitation, as well as limited waste management and reforestation. Key stakeholders
include community members, who will participate through community meetings and initiatives instigated
by FAS and the Nucleus Groups for mobilization, participatory planningand decision-making,
co-production o f services, implementation o f sub-projects, participatory monitoring and evaluation,
supervision o f contractors, community contribution o f costs, and operational maintenance.

An Environmental Assessment was carried out duringMarchand April 2003 by external consultants
resulting inan Environmental and Social Management Framework, including a Resettlement Policy
Framework. The ESMF consists o f (i)     an assessment o f the environmental and social impacts o f the
anticipated subprojects, (ii) proactive environmental guidelines, which include an environmental and
social management plan, for each category o f subproject funded under FAS I11not requiring an EA, and a
screening process for subprojects requiring EA, (iii)  an assessment o f the capacity o f the provincial
offices o f FAS 111to conduct environmental mitigationmeasures, (iv) a monitoringplan to track potential
environmental impacts o f subprojects, and (v) a review o f the legislative framework and a proposal o f
appropriate arrangements for FAS I11regarding environmental and social management and assessment.

The Ministry of Urbanism and Environment has been included in the Environmental Assessment process
and i s inthe process o f disclosing the findings. Inaddition to disclosure from the Ministry,all municipal



                                                     - 24 -

administrations and communities benefiting from subprojects will be informed o f the ESMF and any
resulting monitoring and mitigationresponsibilities, as a condition for subproject approval.
5.2 What are the main features o f the E M P and are they adequate?
The ESMF and the resulting environmental and social guidelines and tools for FAS I11are focused on (i)
integrating environmental and social considerations and procedures directly into both the CDC
subproject cycle and the M D C graduation scheme, as opposed to serving simply as an added precaution
or basic requirement o f due diligence, and (ii)   making the tools for environmental management as simple,
direct and proactive as possible. The ESMF procedures and tools are adequate and have been created in
order to be integratedinthe sub-project implementation process by fitting within each development
stage, namely preparation, planning, implementation, and operation.

Duringpreparation, all relevantFAS staff and Municipal administrators will be trained inenvironmental
and social awareness, screening, mitigationmeasures, and management. Theplanning o f subprojects will
include a checklist and a management plan to ensure that both the site and the design o f the subproject
are based on the set environmental and social guidelines. Approval will not be granted if these guidelines
are not met. Ifa subproject i s assessedas following within category B possible approval will require a
full EA.After approval, hiredcontractors mustsign the Environmental and Social ManagementPlanat
the onset o f the implementation stage, as part o f the standard contract. During construction, contractors
are bound to comply to their set responsibilities, according to the category o f infrastructure. Inthe
operational stage, the subproject i s then transferred to the community, represented by the NG, which in
addition to receiving environmental and social management training will obtain the Environmental and
Social Management Plan, outlining the required maintenance and mitigation measures for the completed
subproject. The NG and MA will continually monitor subproject maintenance, along with a formal
ex-post evaluation, which will review the quality o f environmental management, and, when necessary,
notify the NG/MA o f any shortcomings.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                     Date o f receipt o f final draft: M a y 2003

 5.4 H o w have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
 The FAS I11 Operations Manual establishes that stakeholders will be consulted during the environmental
 screening process undertaken during the sub-project appraisal stage. This i s when environmental and
 social issues will be identified and mitigationmeasures discussed and agreed for individual subprojects.
 Beneficiaries will play a key role inimplementing sub-projects and will be responsible for ensuring that
 environmental mitigation measures and efforts are put inplace.
 5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
 environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
 As part o fthe regular technicaliprocurement audit, an environmental specialist will ascertain whether the
 environmental mitigation measures were actually carried out for individual sub-projects. Inaddition, at
 the end o f each stage o f the subproject process (planning, implementation, and operation) the
 Environmental and Social Management Planrequires the responsible monitor or subproject manager to
 ascertain that the necessary mitigationmeasures have been completed. At the operational stage, this
 combines both continual monitoring at the community level and an ex-post evaluation including
 environmental considerations.




                                                        - 25 -

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Social issues and social development outcomes central to the project objectives include enhanced
participation, social inclusion, civic engagement, public accountability and strengthened social capital in
participating communities and between communities and external support institutions, includinglocal
administration.

The project's social development outcomes are: (i)   Enhanced assets and capabilities: Ensuringthat three
forms o f capital -human, physical and social -are interlinkedand collectively reinforced through
project interventions; (ii)Improved Intra-Community Equity: Ensuringthat vulnerable and more
marginalizedgroups in each community have a voice in decision-making and access to the stream o f
benefits from community-level investments; and (iii)   Creating an appropriate enabling environment:
Ensuringimproved governance inthe rules, relationships and institutions neededto make poverty
reduction sustainable by ensuring that institutions involved (from community to government) are
responsible, resilient and reliable and mutually accountable
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
Community memberswill participate through community meetings and initiatives instigatedby FAS and
the Nucleus Groups for mobilization, participatory planning and decision-making, co-production o f
services, implementation o f sub-projects, participatory monitoringand evaluation, supervision o f
contractors, community contribution to project costs and maintenance. Partner civil society organizations
will participate through intermediary facilitationand co-production, and capacity development activities.
Municipal administration (inconjunction with community groups and civil society organizations) will
participate though involvement in local participatory planning, appraisal, approval, monitoring and
maintenance, As part o f the Municipal Development Component, municipal administrations will be
informed o f all safeguard and environmental procedures, requirementsand considerations involvedin
FAS 111. Provincial and central government will participate through provincial and national oversight
committees and sector policy coordination. The Ministryo f Urbanism and Environment has participated
inthe environmental site review andassessmentfor the ESMF and is commitedto the continued
enforcement and expansion o f the application o f the ESMF. A representative o f the line ministryi s also
included inthe National Coordination Committee for FAS.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
FAS i s expected to rely on NGOs and other local civil society organizations to support implementation o f
all components. Under the Community Development component, communities are expected to work in
conjunction with NGOs and CBOs for project planning and implementation. For the vulnerable groups
component, all activities are expected to be contractedout to NGOs with relevant expertise.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Enhanced assets and capabilities: sub-project support to be nested within capacity development
interventions for communities, implementingpartners and MAS.Emphasis to be placed on participatory
mechanisms, planning and decision-making processes at all levels that enhance social capital and mutual
accountability.

Improved Intra-Community Equity: through revisedprocedures for community needs identification,
prioritizationand participatory planning. Additional window for vulnerable groups to ensure most
marginalized social groups incommunity also have access to project benefits.


                                                    - 26 -

Creating an appropriate enabling environment: focus o f attention on roles and responsibilities o f MAS,
especially municipal councils as a locus o f local development planning. Heightened attention to nature
and structure o f institutional partnerships between government, local and national, community
organizations and civil society.
6.5 H o w will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
Ongoing and iterative Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation to be fully integratedin sub-component
design inFAS 111. Social capital tracking to be undertaken, ideally through use o f the Social Capital
Assessment Tool (SOCAT). Social analysis throughout the Project inthe form o f Beneficiary
Assessments, self-standing social assessments (i.e. on conflict and vulnerability) will allow collection
and analysis o f performance interms o f social development outcomes.

7. Safeguard Policies:




    PestManagement(OP 4.09)
    CulturalProperty(OPN 11.03)                                                'dYes       No
    IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                                 0Yes0       NO
    InvoluntaryResettlement(OPIBP4.12)                                         0 3 Yes     NO
    Safety of Dams(OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                            0 0 Yes     NO
    Projectsin InternationalWaters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                 c/ Yes 0 NO
    Projectsin DisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP7.60,GP 7.60)"                        'd  Yes 0NO

7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Bank's policy on Environmental Assessment i s triggered by the fact that the project will support
rehabilitation o f community based infrastructure (through a participatory process) with the potential o f
some localized environmental impacts. An Environmental and Social Management Framework has been
completed, (i)  reviewing the project relevance to the safeguards, (ii)assessing the environmental and
social impacts o f the expected subprojects, and (iii) presenting an environmental management procedure
and tools, including screening mechanisms, assessment forms, guidelines on mitigation measures and
other relevant tools, to integrate environmental considerations into each phase o f the FAS subproject
cycle for all category o f FAS funded subprojects. Both this framework and the Resettlement Policy
framework have been approved and disclosed inAngola and have been disclosed at the Bank's Infoshop
on M a y 20,2003.

As part o f the ESMFreview, two additional actions were taken to ensure full diligence incomplying with
all possible safeguard requirements. First,a Resettlement Specialist assessedthe potential o f involuntary
resettlement in a desk and field study, which found that the proper mechanisms were inplace in FAS I11
procedures to ensure that involuntary resettlement will not be carried out. A Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) has been developed to further guarantee this arrangement. The RPF has been delivered
with guidelines, integrated into the Operational Manual, puttingforward procedures to avoid any
resettlement when possible as well as loss o f incomes and livelihoods, and to properly carry it out only
when unavoidable and voluntary. Second, an assessment o f FAS I11use o f international aquifers was



                                                     - 27 -

undertaken as a measure to realize the relevance o f the International Waterways Safeguard. It was
decided from the report findings and waterhegal specialists' analysis, that the policy would not be
triggered. Measures have beentaken into the FAS I11design in order to ensure that this remains the case.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Angola i s experiencing an important moment in its history due to the end o f conflict. This offers
unprecedented prospects for FAS I11achieving its development objectives. Within the present context o f
peace, the present synergy among the public sector and civil society organizations to rebuild social
capital inAngola seem to be particularly relevant to the sustainability o f FAS 111.On the project, the
experience acquired by FAS staff over the last 10 years in designing and delivering basic social and
economic infrastructure to the poor should be highlighted as an asset. FAS has been successful not only
inorganizing community members to better articulate their demands, butalso inestablishing accountable
mechanisms for the delivery and management o f those required public goods.

A key element to the sustainability o f FAS activities is the strong focus on enhancing the capacity o f
concerned stakeholders and FAS staff along the whole project cycle. Inorder to strengthen the existing
skills, competences and abilities, and also to address the new challenges ahead, FAS I11will prioritize
capacity development as a cross-cutting and strategic framework for action (as detailed inAnnex 11).
Furthermore, FAS 111will focus on supporting capacity development specifically inMunicipal
Administrations, through the Municipal Development component, in order to further ensure the long term
management and provision of basic social and economic services. These inputs and activities will be
incorporated and improvedalong five main aspects, which have been identified as critical to project
sustainability:

Regarding technical quality of appraisal and design, FAS I11will:
0     Revise Operational Manuals, simplify documentation and bureaucracy inthe project cycle;
0     Develop and disseminate standard manuals on disbursement, procurement, and subproject designs
      into communities and implementing partners;
0     Incorporate a Participatory M&E system inthe subproject cycle and systematize learning flows in
      project implementation;
      Revise and upgrade a technical checklist for quality control;
0     Develop and carry out a bimonthly assessment to measure MA capacity and to evaluate the extent o f
      adherence to established regulations and guidelines;
0     Ensure that project dossiers are also reviewed by line ministries inrelevant provinces.

Regarding maintenance of the social and economic infrastructure, FAS 111will:
0     Introduce maintenance plans (activities, timeframes, responsibilities and budget), including an
      Environmental and Social Management Plan, at approval level;
0     Establish co-sharing mechanisms for maintenance between communities and MAS;
0     Include MA representation inFAS Provincial Coordinating Committees, which already include line
      Ministryrepresentation, to ensure alignment between central andprovicnial Government levels and
      to ensure a greater sense of ownership and sustainability o f sub-projects;
0     Develop a maintenance checklist for quality assurance;
0     Improve communities capacity for routine maintenance o f the infrastructure installed.




                                                    - 28 -

Regarding timelyfinancing of recurrent costs and operational inputs, FAS I11will:
0   Delineate roles and responsibilities for the operation and management o f infrastructure among
    communities, NG, MA, line ministries and FAS;
0   Include signed agreements with implementing partners (GOA, MAS,NGOs, churches, firms) to
    ensure financing o f recurrent costs and operational inputs inthe subproject approval process, as a
    condition for appraisal;
0   Appraise all subprojects for financial sustainability;
0   Expect beneficiaries to contribute at least 10percent o f total costs;
0   Respondto the demands for subprojects from those implementing partners who have committed for
    operational support;
0   Strengthen the capacity among communities, implementingpartners and MASto manage and
    operate the infrastructure implemented.

Regarding communityparticipation, FAS 111will:
0   Enforce community members involvement inthe entire project cycle and maintenance;
0   Introduce Social Promoters at the community level to further facilitate information and knowledge
    exchange between the NGs and FAS andor municipal administrations.
0   Enforce the role o f the NG as the anchor o f FAS mobilization and implementation efforts inthe
    communities;
0   Establish Consultative Fora at the municipal level to: (i)  further ensure community participation and
    approval throughout the project process; and to (ii)   create a recognized arena for dialogue between
    the community and the municipal administration.
0   Integrate community priorities into municipal development plans and budget;
0   Strengthen capacity, through training and tools, for participatory planning among MAS,NGs and
    implementing partners.

Regarding strategicpartnerships, FAS I11will:
0   Ensure subprojects linkages with sectoral policies and other development programs at different
    government levels to guarantee integrated development;
0   Require the development o f a Municipal Development Plan as the foundation for selected
    subprojects ledwithin the M D C .
0   Define and implement mechanisms for responsibility and cost sharing among communities, MAS
    and implementingpartners;
0   Builda dynamic knowledge base to document and disseminate the subprojects experiences, lessons
    and impacts among all stakeholders;
0   Enhance individual, organizational, and institutional skills, competences and abilities at community,
    implementing partner and municipal levels.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
The current macro conditions are more favorable than those under FAS Iand 11.Firstly, the security risk
appears to be relatively modest, inview of: (i) formal ceasefire agreement signed between UNITA
                                                  the
and GOA; (ii) widespread synergy among GOA, the Angolan population and civil society
               the
organizations to rebuild the country; and (iii) the highcommitment demonstrated by GOA to the
development o f a decentralization framework, with a view to improving governance and service delivery.
Secondly, the overall macro environment i s rather favorable, given that GOA i s demonstrating high
commitment to the project as reflected by the increase o f its share o f counterpart funds under the project,
compared to the previous operations.

As far as project implementation i s concerned, the overall environment is more supportive. Firstly, areas
o f the country that were inaccessible in the past due to logistical constraints and landmine infestation
have increasingly become more accessible since the ceasefire agreement, contributing to improved
communication and accessibility among localities and citizens. Secondly, in light o f its unprecedented
experience inthe area o f community-led provision o f basic services, FAS i s considered a model approach
by other stakeholders regarding the delivery and management o fpublic goods at community levelin
Angola. While FAS has been successfully operating since 1994, its original approach has been
continuously improvedbased on systematic assessments and reviews o f lessons learned, particularly
towards a more concerted effort to capacity enhancement and demand-responsiveness to strengthen its
community driven and participatory approach. Lastly, the project places great emphasis on knowledge
sharing and buildingon existent institutional structures as well as human resources with proven track
records. One o f the project's key features i s thus its commitment to implementing and sustaining its
activities through more consistently shared responsibilities among communities, MASand implementing
partners, including NGOs, CBOs and bilateral as well as multilateral agencies.

The financial management risk has been assessedhigh. However, this risk will be mitigated by enhancing
the control environment. Itwill include puttinginplace an audit function and strengthening the
accounting team at the central and provincial levels (project specific financial management, accounting
and auditing procedures and recruitment o f a financial controller and internal auditors).

                     Risk                         Risk Rating                  Risk Mitigation Measure
 From Outputs to Objective
 Renewed conflict                                        N         The Project will promote social reintegration
                                                                   and cohesion b y expanding access to basic
                                                                   services in a participatory manner, promoting
                                                                   inclusive and collective decision making as
                                                                   well as capacity development activities.
 Substantial decreases inGovernment                      M         Financing agreement signed by Government
 revenue as a result o f pro-longued                               that will honor counterpart funding to FAS.
 depreciation o f world oil prices
 Untimely provision o f counterpart funds                M         Inclusiono f the counterpart funds for FAS I11
                                                                   inthe annual State budgets.
 Legal framework for decentralization not                M         The Project will: (i) awareness and build
                                                                                         raise
 inplace                                                           demand for improved governance at
                                                                   community and municipal level through
                                                                   capacity development activities along the
                                                                   sub-project cycle and the municipal graduation
                                                                   scheme, and the financing o f basic social
                                                                   infrastructure at community and municipal
                                                                   level; (ii)build strong linkages and coordinate
                                                                   efforts with sectoral policies and other agencies
                                                                   involved inthe decentralization process.
                                                                   Furthermore, the Government embarked on
                                                                   developing a legal framework for
                                                                   decentralization duringprevious ceasefire
                                                                   periods
 FAS used as a political tool                            S         Project implementation will be preceded by an
                                                                   extensive public information campaign to raise
                                                                   stakeholders' awareness regarding Project



                                                       - 30 -

                                                  objectives, interventions, and processes.
                                                  Checks and balances will be put inplace to
                                                  ensure transparency and accountability.
From Componentsto Outputs
Limited capacity o f MASand                M      Concerted capacity development efforts at
implementing partners to respond to               human, organizational and institutional level
community demand                                  will strengthen the ability o fthe key
                                                  implementing partners to play their envisaged
                                                  roles. Contracting local partners and delivering
                                                  the sub-projects throughjoint and coordinated
                                                   efforts with other agencies and government
                                                   sectors make successful implementation more
                                                   likely.
Inability or unwillingness o f MAS to      M       Transfer o f administrative and project portfolio
manage administrative and project                  funds to MA is based on a graduation scheme
portfolio funds                                    and specific eligibility criteria.
Difficulties establishing a systemo f      M       The Project will improve vertical and
mutual accountability and transparency             horizontal linkages among all government
                                                   levels, communities and implementing
                                                   partners, inparticular through capacity
                                                   development, coordination, maintenance plans
                                                   and shared responsiblities.
Insufficient financial and human            S      Sub-projects will be included into the MA's
resources available for maintenance o f            local development plans, annual budget
investments                                        allocations and management strategies.
Limited managerial capacity o f FAS to      N      Based on lessons learned from FAS Iand 11,
 implement the Project                              and a comprehensive capacity needs
                                                    assessment, FAS will improve its managerial
                                                    skills and assets through (i) capacity
                                                    development activities directed to its staff, wit1
                                                    particular emphasis on financial management
                                                    skills and procedures; (ii) transfer o f expertise
                                                    among key parthers and MAS;and (iii)
                                                    coordination o f efforts and strategic
                                                    partnerships with those entities involved inthe
                                                    delivery and management o f public goods in
                                                    the country. Inaddition, the Project will expan'

I                                                   gradually to new provinces, and the roll-out
                                                    process will be closely monitored and
                                                    evaluated.
 Insufficient effective demand from MAS     M       Inorder to ensure an effective demandfrom
 to participate inthe Project                       MASto participate inthe Project, FASwill
                                                    focus on: (i) MAS'awareness by setting
                                                                 raising
                                                    up financial incentives inaccordance with the
                                                    sub-projects cycle; (ii) developing human and
                                                    organizational capacity o f MASalong the
                                                    sub-projects cycle; (iii)establishing a
                                                    graduation scheme for MASto take over FAS
                                                    managerial responsibilities ina phased manner



                                           -31 -

                                                                   (iv) strengthening community ability to demand
                                                                   and monitor MAS'activities to ensure
                                                                   accountability; and (v) coordinating efforts
                                                                   with other government levels and sectors in
                                                                   support o f municipal autonomy.
,imited engagement in FAS process and                 N            Stakeholders have been consulted during the
pproach by other stakeholders                                      design o f FAS 111, and the Project has been
                                                                   endorsed and i s considered a priority project by
                                                                   other stakeholders.
:onflict o f interest between FAS and                M             The Project will: (i)  screen partners and MAS
mplementingpartners and MAS                                        against a clear set o f participation criteria; (ii)
                                                                   assess the human, organizational and
                                                                   institutional capacity o f key partners and MAS
                                                                   as part o f a comprehensive framework for
                                                                   action; (iii) share its expertise and strengthen
                                                                   the capability o f key partners and MASto play
                                                                   their role in an effective and accountable
                                                                   manner; (iv) establish a participatory
                                                                   monitoring and evaluation system at
                                                                   community level; and (v) establish mechanisms
                                                                   for close quality monitoring and for
                                                                   establishing continued collaboration with those
                                                                   key entities.
jverall Risk Rating                                   M
!isk Rating H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris , M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1e or Low Risk)
            -

3. PossibleControversialAspects:
N o t Applicable.

G. Main Credit Conditions
1. EffectivenessConditions


     The Project Agreement has been duly authorizedor ratifiedby FAS, and is legally bindingupon FAS
     inaccordance with its terms
     The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratigied by the Borrower and FAS and i s
      legally bindingupon the Borrower and FAS in accordance with its terms
     The Borrower has opened one account (FAS I11Project Account) inKwanza (KZ) ina commercial
     bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and made an initial deposit o f an amount in KZ
      equivalent to US$500,000into such account to finance the Government's contribution to Project
      expenditures;
      FAS has submitted the first Annual Work Plan and Budget for the first 12 months o f the project,
      including the commitments for each province to carry out the planned sub-projects;
      FAS has formally adopted the revised Operational Manual;




                                                     - 32 -

0  The Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf o f the Borrower and FAS;

0  The Borrower has implemented a financial management systemacceptable by the Bank which i s able
   to produce reliable and timely information includingFMRs, and FAS staff has been adequately
   trained on the Bank's financial management procedures and the FAS financial management system;

0  The Borrower has formally adopted a fully documented project-specific Financial Management
   Procedural Manual, which will cover financial policies and procedures, accounting and internal
   control system, financial reporting, flow o f funds and auditing arrangements at central, provincial
   and municipality levels;                                              I t



0  The Borrower has appointed a certified accountant as financial controller, a financial internal auditor
   and a technical internal auditor under terms o f reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to
   the Association;

0  The Borrower has appointed external auditors under terms o f reference, qualifications and
   experience satisfactory to the Association for the auditing o f the Project.

L.Other [classify accordingto covenant types usedinthe Legal Agreements.]



H. Readiness for Implementation
0  1, a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
        start o f project implementation.
   1,b) Not applicable.

   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start o f
      project implementation.
   3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
      quality.
   4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loanconditions (Section G):


I. Compliance with Bank Policies
   1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
   2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommendedfor approval. The project complies
      with all other applicable Bankpolicies.
 ,/-7



                                        Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                      Darius Mans
Team Leader                             Sector ManagerlDirector                   CountryManagedDirector




                                                   - 33 -

                                   Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                              ANGOLA: Third Social Action Fund (FAS 111)
                                         Pe
                                         nd
sector-relatedCAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:               ectorl country reports:
 . Quality o flife o f                                                                    from Goal to Bank Mission)
                              Reduced incidence o f infant,    NICEF and Ministryo f
var-affected population       :hild, andmaternal mortality     ealth statistics
mproved
                              [ncreasedrate o f primary        NICEF and Minstryo f
                              school enrollment                ducation statistics

                              [ncreasedhousehold               JE, HHS, ad hoc study
                              :onsumption among project
                              ieneficiaries

                              [ncreased level o f economic     gE, ad hoc study
                              ictivity insubproject areas

                              Reduced level o f                .dhoc study
                              mvironmental degradation in
                              subproject areas



'roject Development           Outcome IImpact                  roject reports:            from Objective to Goal)
3bjective:                    Indicators:
I.Community-basedbasic        Primary school enrollment        istema Informacao do FAS   Sustainedpeace and continued
social and economic services  increasedby X%                   SIFAS)                     ransition from conflict to
mproved, expanded,                                                                        ieace, and from a
sustainably utilized and      Access to and usage o f health   ieneficiary Assessments    &ate-controlledto a market
naintained through            services increasedby X%                                     :conomy, with greater popular
iarticipatory processes                                        M&Ereports                )articipation.
nvolving communities and      Access to and usage o f water
LlAs                          and sanitation facilities                                  SustainedGOA commitment
                              increasedby X%                                              mdability to provide
                                                                                          :ounterpart finds ina timely
                              No. o f vehicles on repaired                                'ashion
                              roads increasedby X% and
                              travel time reduced by X%

                              Revenues o f market vendors
                              increasedby X%
   Govemance system           No. o f Consultative Fora (CF)   4As' monthly andquartei-,I 30A remains committed to
supports and enhances mutual created and functioning           :ports                     iecentralizationprocess and tc
iccountability o f communities                                                            :stablishing legal framework
mdmunicipal administrations No. o fMASachieving                'AS quarterly reports
                              respective level (1-8) o f                                  30A and local governments
                              performance                      'istemaInformacao do FAS   -espectand support
                                                               SIFAS)                     iccountable and transparent
                              No. o fMA'sstaff skills,                                    implementation o f project
                              competencies and practices       beneficiary Assessments    ibjectives and processes
                              improved
                                                               'M&Ereports
                              No. o f Communities making


                                                         - 34 -

                                 use o f FAS supported
                                 mechanismsto hold MA
                                 accountable

                                 X% o fproject beneficiaries
                                 satisfied with services
                                 provided byproject




Output from each                 Output Indicators:             'roject reports:          {fromOutputs to Objective)
Component:
1a. Quality community-          X primary schools               'rogress reports o f      Clommunities andNCs remain
prioritized basic infrastructure constructedrehabilitated and   mplementing agencies      :ommitted to the subproject
services provided, inuse and     adequately maintained by EOP                             :ycle principles and
maintained, incollaboration                                     M e m a Informacaodo FAS  xocedures
with MAS                         X healthposts constructed/      SIFAS)
                                 rehabilitatedand adequately                              Sufficient financial and human
                                 maintained by EOP              'M&E reports              resourcesavailable in
                                                                                          sommunities and MASfor
                                 X o fwater and sanitation      3eneficiary Assessments   maintenance o f investments
                                 facilities constructed
                                rehabilitatedand adequately
                                maintained by EOP

                                 X roads repaired and
                                 adequately maintained by EOP

                                 X markets constructed
                                 rehabilitatedand adequately
                                 maintained by EOP

lb. Vulnerable groups,           Keypopulation groups that are 'onsultant's reports       Communities willling to
conflict impact and             most adversely affected by                                engage inparticipatory
community demand for             armed conflict and other                                 diagnositc, willing and able to
supportive interventions         shocks, and inneed o f support                           identifyparticularlyvulnerabli
identified                       to escape poverty and                                    groups and conflict resolution
                                participate inthe CDD process                             processes
                                 identified
2. MASdelivering accountable                                                              MAS,provincial governments
and sustainable quality                                                                   and line ministeriesremain
services to communities along                                                             commited to municipal
CDD principles and in                                                                     development plans as well as
accordance with municipal                                                                 subproject cycle principles
development plans                                                                         and procedures

                                                                                          MAShave interest and skills
                                                                                          requiredto manage
                                                                                          administrative and project
                                                                                          portfolio funds

                                                                                          Political environment


                                                           - 35 -

                                                                                        conducive to facilitating
                                                                                        participation, social inclusion
                                                                                        and mutual accountability
3. Capacity development                                                                 Active participationo f all
strategy implemented, inuse,                                                            community members inall
disseminated and endorsedby                                                             phases o fthe subproject cycle
project stakeholders
                                                                                        Norms and networks
                                                                                        established and functioning
                                                                                        amongNCs, MASand other
                                                                                        govemment levels

                                                                                        Information and
                                                                                        communication channels
                                                                                        actively used by all involved
                                                                                        stakeholders
4. PM&E and quality control                                                             Communities, NCs, MASand
systems established and                                                                 other stakeholders remain
operational                                                                             committedto using and
                                                                                        updatingthe systems


Project Components I           nputs: (budget for each       'roject reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:                :omponent)                                               Outputs)
la. CDC project cycle                                        'rogress reports o f       Community members have
1. Community mobilization      qo. o f social promoters      mplementing agencies       skills, interest in and
and capacity development       rained                                                   commitment to organizing
activities designed, conducted                                ;istema Informacao do FAS themselves to participate inthe
and assessed                                                  SIFAS)                    project

2. N C capacity development                                   'M&E reports
activities designed, conducted Vo. o fNCs trained                                       NCs established, interested in,
and assessed                                                  3eneficiary Assessments   committed to and capable o f
                                                                                        responding to community
3. Collaborativeprocesses                                                               demand, negotiating
and accountability             Zmproved quality o f submitted                           community priorities,
mechanisms among               ;ubproject proposals and CDD                             managing and sustaining
community members, NCs and xocess                                                        subprojects inan inclusive and
MASestablishedand                                                                        accountable manner, in
operational along the                                                                    collaboration with MAS
subproject cycle
lb. Vulnerabilitv and conflict Vature and scope o f
impact assessment              mlnerability and conflict
Methodology designed and       mpact, traditional coping and                             Findings o f assessment are an
vulnerability and conflict     :onflict resulution                                       unbiasedreflection o f
impact assessment conducted    nechanisms, and community                                 community reality
                               lemand for targeted support tc
                               Julnerable groups and peace
                               mildingefforts identified in
                               I O communities
2. M D C graduation scheme     To. o fMAs achieving                                       MAS'staff are skilled,
1. MAScapacity development     .espective levels o f                                     interested inand committed to
activities designed, conducted ,erformance (1-8) at                                      promoting, implementing,
and assessed                   UTFUEOP                                                   managing and sustaining
                                                                                         municipal development plans


                                                          -36-

Z. Financial mechanisms and                                            .nconsultation with CFs
igreements developed
                                                                       CIF have skills andmotivation
3. CF established                                                      :o respond to community
                                                                       xiorities and demands
3. Capacitv development
Framework                                                              Community members willing
I.Informationsharingand                                                andable to mobilize
cnowledge management                                                   themselves and apply the
nechanims designed                                                     knowledge acquired


2. Training materials and       go. o f participants attending         MAS'staff skilled and
workshops tailored to target    rainingiworkshops                      supported by other
groups' profiles and fields o f                                        government levels to
:xpertise, conducted and                                               ;hampion the graduation
:valuated                                                              scheme

3. Incentive mechanisms for                                            Informal collaborations within
improvedorganizational                                                 and among line ministries/
relations, arrangements and                                            programs and among
?recesses (FAS, NCs, MAS)                                              concerned stakeholders in
jeveloped                                                              place and coordinated

4. Horizontal and vertical                                             Information and knowledge
:oordination and mechanisms                                            institutionalizedby all
for aligning practices designed                                        concerned stakeholders
4. PM&E and aualitv control
svsvtems
1. PM&E systemdesignedto        Systems functional and inuse           Communities and concerned
respondto stakeholders                                                 stakeholders remain commited
demands and in articulation                                            to using and updatingthe
with CDC and M D C                                                     systems

2. Quality control mechanisms Juality assurance results in
developed consistent with       luality services and improved
CDC and M D C                   :ontractor performance under
                                subprojects




                                                             - 37 -

                                 Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                              ANGOLA: Third Social Action Fund (FAS 111)

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$87.50 million
                       -
CommunityDevelopmentComponent

This component would finance demand-driven community initiatives to construct and rehabilitate
small-scale socio-economic infrastructure applying a Community-Driven Development approach to build
assets, capabilities and capacities within communities and between communities and external support
agents, such as local government and civil society organizations. The twin objectives o f the Community
Development component (CDC) are thus: (i)        to expand and improve access to, management and
sustainable use o f basic social and economic infrastructure, and (ii) to build social capital through
support to a governance structure that creates norms and networks among community members and local
institutions to facilitate collective action around common goals, with an emphasis on participation, social
inclusion and mutual accountability.

Hence, this component will buildon experience inFAS Iand I1inchanneling resources and technical
expertise for community-based infrastructure construction and rehabilitation. However, inFAS 111,these
inputsand activities will be organized ina more sharply-focused CDD framework inorder to give greater
control over decisions and resources to community groups and local level institutions, including local
government. Within this reorientation, concepts such as participation, empowerment, civic engagement,
social capital, decentralization and sustainability needto be reconsidered, particularly interms o f the
operational implications for sub-project implementation and for the type and nature o f institutional
partnerships required to enable highquality performance and positive outcomes.

FAS I11would aim to more closely relate investment inthree forms o f capital: human, physical and
social. Social capital i s understood, broadly, as the norms and networks that enable collective action. It
includes elements o f community-level organizational capacity (common-interest association,
organizational skills and competencies, accountability mechanisms) and cognitive capital (trust,
reciprocity, belonging, civic identity and engagement). It involves bonding forms o f capital within
communities and bridging forms o f capital between communities and different types o f institutions. And
it is particularly relevant for development where it buildson a foundation o fprinciples o f social
inclusion. Physical capital rehabilitation i s a way o f bringingcommunities together to design and
implement projects which yield tangible, visible and immediate improvements in local living conditions,
designed for the common good o f the community. Such community-based initiatives can help build trust
and are important in so far as they help to sustain confidence inthe peace process.

FAS I11will contribute to the Government's efforts to rebuildsocial capital inAngola. These investments
will be planned and managed according to general principles governing programs in support o f
Community Driven Development, namely:

0    ensuring that investments respond to informed demand, that communities and partner institutions
     have the capacity to manage and sustain them and that capacity building and development i s invested
     inat all levels;
0    buildingparticipatory mechanisms for community control and stakeholder involvement throughout
     all phases o f the sub-project cycle and devolving responsibilities to communities and local
     stakeholders as capacity i s developed;

     facilitating access to informationby all stakeholders regarding program contents and rules,
     institutional linkages and examples o f emerging good practice;
     developing simple rules and strong incentives supported by monitoring and evaluation. Access to
     resources should be governed by simple rules and procedures (incentives and disincentives) that are
     easy for communities and local level institutions to interpret and apply;
     integrating participatory monitoring and evaluation as an instrument for communities' own
     assessments o f performance and for growing demand for accountability from below;
     establishing appropriate enabling institutional and policy frameworks to include, where applicable:
     (i)responsive decentralized local governments and inter-governmental arrangements; (ii)conducive
                                                                                                   a
     legal and regulatory framework that supports community action; and (iii)     clear sector policies with
     well defined roles and responsibilities;
     maintaining flexibility in design and implementation, especially with an increased emphasis on
     PM&E, inorder that direct feedback from the community can feed into project restructuring;
     striving for social and gender inclusion with explicit gender-sensitive and socially-inclusive
     approaches built into social mobilization modalities;
     investing in exit strategies for external support though identification o f permanent institutional and
     financial arrangements.
     undertaking an assessment, on a pilot basis, o f conflict impact and vulnerability at the community
     level, aimed to assess the demand for and feasibility o f potential follow-up interventions to foster
     social inclusion and cohesion.

The C D component will support the strengthening o f capacity o f community groups, in association with
partner institutions (such as the AgBncias de Encuadramento andAmigos de FAS as established in FAS
11)to mobilize, identify, prioritize, buildconsensus, plan, implement, monitor, maintain and sustain
community investments. FAS will support community demand-driven initiatives that contribute to the
creation, effective operation and sustainability o f community assets, with a negative list for potential
investments with individual rather than community benefits and guided by a menu that conforms to
specific sector policies.

Inorder to reorient the proposedproject towards thisbroader objective of social capital strengthening
within a guidingstructure o f CDD, it is necessary to revise implementation arrangements along four
dimensions: (i)   rules -within FAS, as they relate to procedures and between co-managing institutions, as
they relate to structuring o f partnerships; (ii)roles and responsibilities - especially the devolution or
roles in a decentralization framework and to shift the onus o f responsibility to communities and local
level organizations; (iii) processes -micro, meso and macro that needto be strengthened inorder to
fulfill the project objectives, and; (iv) macro issues -as they pertainto harmonizingmultisectoral
initiatives with sectoral strategies and creating and sustaining an enabling environment for CDD.

Key aspects o f these changes would include the following:

(i) Rules

a.        shift greater responsibility to community groups (aligned with capacity development) for
          administrative and workflow tasks associated with the sub-project cycle;
b.        delegate increased responsibility to the DelegaqBo Provincial de Planeamento, working in
          conjunction with provincial FAS teams, and to the municipal administration;
c.        simplifydocumentation and decrease bureaucracy involved inthe sub-project cycle;
d.        explore opportunities for transfer o f key functions, such as procurement and contracting
          (including possibilities for direct community contracting) to local level institutions.



                                                      - 39 -

(ii)    Roles

a.      rethinkthe role oftheNzicleo Comunitario, onthe basis of lessonslearned from FAS Iand 11,as
        the anchor of FAS mobilizationand implementation efforts inthe community inorder that it
        better serve functions o f social mobilizationand truly represent the interests o f the community as
        a whole;
b.      define clearly co-production roles ofthe N C and municipalcouncils given the longer-term vision
        o f FAS for CDDAocal development;
C.      delineate roles and responsibilities for maintenance and sustainability o f investmentsbetween
        communities, partners and local administration;
d.      establish appropriate mechanisms and systems for an integrated monitoring, evaluation and
        learning (ME&L) process applicable to the activities under the CDF, including design and
        integration o fparticipatory monitoring and evaluation (PM&E) methodologies.

(iii)   Processes

a.      revise and upgrade the social mobilization functions so as to more dynamically facilitate the
        extension o f CDD approaches inproject locales, inconjunction with implementing partners;
b.      address the identifiedshortcomings in gender-inclusive aspects o f community participation and
        improve monitoringo fparticipatory planning processes;
C.      clarify procedures for participatory planning with partner implementing organizations expected
        to assume an active role inthe sub-project cycle;
d.      systematize M&Eflows, feedback loops and entry points for affecting change inproject
        implementation;
e.      consider development o f common strategic plans for provincialoffices and provincial strategic
        plans adaptedto context (balancing needfor strategic vision with flexibility to respondto
        articulated demand) inorder to shift from a project-by-project to a portfolio pipeline and
        approval process;
f.      integrate modifiedenvironmental and social management procedures.

64      Macro

a.       ensure linkages with sectoral policies and other programs through improved information flows,
         disseminationand channels for dialogue with relevant offices;
b.      revisiono f roles, articulation and opportunities for institutionalization o f provincial and national
         committees;
C.       define mechanisms for incentives and output-based performance monitoring;
d.       clearly designedcapacity development targeted to different stakeholders at various levels from
         community to administration, and includingFAS staff, as a fundamental buildingblock for all
         CDF activities.

I1       Community Sub-projects

The CDF will support community initiatives that improve the access to and delivery of small-scale
socio-economic services and should be considered a means o f buildingsocial capital. To this end, social
mobilization, participatory planning processes and co-decision making processes for communities and
local institutions will receive heightened attention inthe Project.




                                                    - 4 0 -

The Project will support the strengthening o f capacity o f community groups, inassociation with partner
institutions (such as the Agzncias de Encuadramento andAmigos de FAS as established inFAS 11) to
identify, prioritize, build consensus, plan, implement, monitor, maintain and sustain community
investments. The Project will support community demand-driven initiatives that contribute to the
creation, effective operation and sustainability o f community assets, with a negative list for potential
investments with individual rather than community benefits and guided by a menu that conforms to
specific sector policies.

Sub-project investments are expected to include: (i)    construction, rehabilitation or provision o f the basic
infrastructure for health, education, water and sanitation; (ii)small-scale community and municipal
infrastructure, and (iii) environmental upgrading (rubbish,reforestation, etc.).

Inorder to be eligible for FAS support, a community needs to have established aN6cleo Comunitbrio
(NC) which will have responsibility for community mobilization, planning, preparation and
implementation o f sub-projects. For community sub-projects, the main implementation features are, as
follows:

(i)anNCconstitutedbyelectedrepresentativesofthecommunity;
(ii)thecommunitycontributingatleast10%ofthetotalprojectcost,incashorkind;
(iii)investmentstobeguidedbyamenuofeligiblesocialandeconomicsub-projecttypesasoutlinedin
      the Operational Manual;
(iv) sub-project proposals to be appraised and approved by FAS and Municipal authorities on the basis
      o f social, economic, institutional, gender, environmental, technical and legal criteria as set out inthe
      Operational Manual;
 (v) sub-projects o f total value at $100,000 or below to be approved at the level o fthe respective
       Province, sub-projects between US$lOO,OOO and US$200,00 to be approved by the National
      Coordination Unit,whereas those in excess o f US$200,000 to be referred to the National
       Coordination Committee for review;
 (vi) procurement and disbursement procedures to follow guidelines as agreed with the World Bank, and
 (vii) semi-annual reports to be providedto the Bank and other donors.

 I11      Sub-project Cycle

 FAS I11will continue to finance activities inaccordance with the guidelines set out inthe Operational
 Manual (the project cycle has been revisedbased on the lessons learned duringthe first and second
 phases o f FAS).

 Social Mobilizationand Promotion. To be undertaken on a portfolio as opposed to project-by-project
 basis, with community-level activities to be oriented towards social mobilization; at the Municipal and
 Provincial to a combination o f social mobilizationand FAS promotion through dissemination,
 workshops, media, etc. Particular attention will be paid to the demand-driven aspects o f the C D
 component o f the project and the necessary mechanisms to enable genuine community-driven
 development. FAS I11will thus involve an intensification o f efforts incommunity mobilization,
 facilitation and community-level capacity strengthening for local development planning.

 Planning. At the provincial andmunicipal levels, geographical profiling will be a first step in
 demarcating an area o f intervention for FAS inthe C D component. This will entail development o f a
 situation analysis highlightingpopulations, assets, access to services and transport infrastructure,



                                                      -41 -

livelihood bases, etc. The geographical profile would be expected to be updated annually by the FAS and
the administration. Drawing from this profile, FAS and the respective municipal administrations (MA)
will jointly develop an intervention strategy for one year o f C D operations. A subsequent step in
preparatory planning i s the establishment o f a database o f social promoters and provide training to this
group on participatory planning, C D D principles and FAS procedures.

Participatory PlanningandIdentification. Strengthened community-based participatory planning
processes are required which will reinforce the capacities o f communities to take the lead intheir own
development, requiringupgraded facilitation, capacity buildingand methodological innovations based
upon participatory approaches. Sub-projects are to be identified and prepared by beneficiary
communities, led by the Nzicleos Comunitarios (NCs), facilitated by the social promoters, with the
technical support o f a range o f external support agencies, including FAS, municipal administration and
other intermediary groups, as appropriate. NCs will be providedtraining on key aspects o f project cycle
management, such as basic accounting, book keeping, procurement procedures, storage and supply o f
materials, project supervision, monitoring and reporting, etc.

Preparation. Community-level participatory planning will include a needs assessment and prioritization
exercise. Needs prioritization and sub-project selection will need to take into account the capacity o f the
community to contribute towards the cost o f the project, to take responsibility for co-management o f
implementation and to assume co-responsibility alongside local administration for maintenance and
sustainability o f assets created. The community will be expected to openly and democratically elect this
N C which will serve as the primary conduit for coordination of all sub-project activities.

Appraisal and Approval. At the municipal level, municipal councils will be fully integratedina
combined project cycle stage o f sub-project appraisal and approval (on a portfolio basis). Sub-project
applications are to be assessed against appraisal criteria as described inthe Operational Manual.
Sub-project proposals will be submittedby the N C to FAS. The following criteria shall apply for
determining the eligibility o f sub-project proposals: (i)proposed sub-project shall be in line with overall
FAS objectives; (ii)  community willingness to contribute at least 10 percent o f the total cost and agree o n
co-responsibility terms for maintenance and sustainability; (iii)  commitment by respective sector to meet
recurrent cost obligations; (iv) community capacity to implement, operate, maintain and manage the
sub-project; (v) technology chosen mustbe appropriate and within management capacity o f community;
(vi) beneficiaries o f sub-projects to be consonant with targeting objectives o f FAS; (vii) sub-project must
be cost effective.

After screening at desk appraisal, FAS will aggregate approved applications inthe form o f a provincial
project portfolio, to be presented to the Coordination Committee (comprising municipal administration,
line ministries, FAS) for further review and approval.

Sub-project Implementation,FinancialPlanningand Procurement. Community project launch
workshops will be required, with the participation o f all relevant stakeholders (NC, AE, FAS, AM,
contractors, etc.). These workshops are intended to build ownership, enhance transparency o f the process
and confirm amongst all stakeholders roles, responsibilities and reciprocal commitments for project
implementation. Agreements will be formalized with respect to budgets, community contribution,
implementation plan and arrangements, maintenance responsibilities, etc. A Financing Agreement (FA)
will also be signed at the project launch workshop. The FA will be an agreement between FAS, the
community represented by the N C and the municipal administration. The FA i s intended to ensure that all
those involved inthe implementation are legally bound to implement the sub-project according to the
approved sub-proj ect document.



                                                    - 42 -

Supervision. Supervision will be an essential activity to ensure the quality and cost effectiveness o f
sub-project implementation and management. Supervision will be the responsibility o f FAS and AM.
There may also be a need to procure services o f a qualified supervisor and enter into supervision
agreements in some sub-projects. Typically, this would be necessary where there i s need to supervise the
execution o f a complex technical sub-project or follow up on a sub-project characterized by significant
implementation problems.

Supervision will be carried out in close cooperation with the N C in order to build their capacity to
subsequently carry out similar functions for future development projects inthe community to be managed
byNCs. Supervision activities will also be closely integratedinthe PM&E cycles with informationflows
to be directed both upwards and downwards to improve mutual accountability (to local administration
and FAS and downward to assembleias and community from NCs).

Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning. Participation and ownership to be built into sub-project cycle at
all levels through institutionalized PM&E. Under FAS 111,SIFAS simplification, relevance for
decision-making, consolidation and integration will continue as developed inFAS I1inline with general
M&Eupgrading for the Project. Complimentary learning cycles are to be structured into different levels
o f component activities inFAS I11in order to both maximize the quality and outputs o f knowledge and
feedback on FAS-supported initiatives and to buildcapacities and ownership amongst different
stakeholders inthe process. A principal outcome o f a successful M&E system i s the improvement o f
mutual accountability between different stakeholders. As such, PM&E i s not only concerned with
recording and reporting on project inputs and outputs, but i s also intimately relatedto how different
stakeholders, using participatory methods, can be facilitated in collecting and analysing informationfor
their own use and for holding others to account on their performance.

Enhanced effort in FAS 111will be directed to the task o f developing and supporting tailor-made
participatory monitoring and evaluation (PM&E) cycles at the level o f community and local
administration (methodology design, selection o f indicators, analysis and use/dissemination). PM&E
designs should reflect the management capacity o f applicable stakeholders (Le. PM&E at community
level should be simple and straightforward so that it can be managed and sustained by
communities/NCs). Roles and responsibilities at different levels need to be aligned so as make
articulation between monitoring at community, local administration and FAS programme levels possible.
PM&E cycles need to be related to appropriate communication strategies and to the overall design o f the
SIFAS management information system.

Overall operational aspects o f the FAS programme will continue to be monitored internally and
externally through a posteriori evaluations, audits and beneficiary assessments. The objective o f this
monitoring i s improvedinformation for management decision-making.

The SIFAS (FAS M I S system) i s designed to monitor physical progress and outcomes and link them to
financial expenditures. SIFAS i s expected to provide informationon the overall performance o f FAS at a
provincial and national level.

Completion. Formal hand-over to local administration will be integrated inthe project cycle in FAS I11
inorder to signal responsibility (administration and sector) for maintenance and sustainability o f
infrastructure.




                                                    - 43 -

Management,maintenanceand sustainability. Participationat all stagesby community and local
administration i s an important prerequisitefor achieving sustainability goals. Beneficiary Assessment
and other evaluation methodologies will serve as an important tool to assess performance and outcomes.

I V     Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects

Sub-projects will be identified usingCDD-orientedparticipatory planningmethodologies as indicated
above and implementedwithin a framework of coordinated assistanceby local government and external
support organizations. Sub-projects eligible for financing will have to meet technical, financial,
economic, social and environmental criteria as described inthe Operational Manual. Procedures to be
followed for targeting, social mobilization, facilitation, appraisal, approval, implementationand
monitoringo f sub projects will also be defined inthe Operational Manuals (for FAS, NCs, and partners).

GeneralCriteria:
0   A guiding framework o f community-driven development will apply to all investments financed under
    the CD component;
0   Sub-projects should be development activities, and reflect a priority expressed through a
    participatory planning process with broadbenefitsfor the community;
0   Sub-project design, planning, implementation, monitoringand maintenance should result from
    collaborative decision-making and commitments on the part o f the community, local administration
    and other relevant partners;
0   The sub-project i s located inan area where the population lacks appropriate basic, social and
    economic infrastructure.

InstitutionalCriteria:
0   A community needs to form aNucleo Comunitario (Project Committee) acceptable to FAS, which is
    recognized as a legitimate representative by the community;
0   A formal contract will bindthe Nucleo Comunitario, FASand localadministration, specifying the
     objectives, content and sustainability plan for the sub-project;
0    The Nucleo Comunitario will prepare a managementplan specifying the activities for preparation,
     implementation, supervision and maintenance o f the selected sub-project in conjunction with local
     administration and other partners, as appropriate;
a    Capacity needs to be developed within the community andpartner organizations to undertake the
     physical and operational maintenance o f the facilities to be financed;
0    Capacity development will emphasize optimal articulation of institutional arrangements for
     sustainable planning, implementation and maintenance o f sub-projects.

 Social Criteria:
  0   The sub-projects must respond to priorities articulatedby the community;
  0   Sub-projects needto demonstrate a significant impact on the living conditions o f the beneficiary
      population;
  0   Community members should be involved inall phaseso f the sub-project cycle, from identification
      to evaluation, and beyond in order to sustain the asset;
  0   The sub-project is to beusedas a means to buildsocial capital amongst different social groups
      within the community and betweencommunities and external support institutions;
  0   The sub-project should be targeted to impact poor people, women, youth, andor other vulnerable
      and marginalized groups.




                                                      - 44 -

Economic Criteria:
0   Sub-projects should be consistent with overall sector and provincial and municipal development
    plans;
0   The sub-projects need to be financially feasible, and the sub-project proposals need to include
    detailed financial plans (incorporating the community contribution);
0   The sub-projects need to be economically viable, and take into account realistic costs estimates for
    each expenditure category. A cost benefit analysis o f the sub-project needs to show that costs are
    within the acceptable parameters for FAS 111.

Technical Criteria:
    The sub-project should comply with the construction norms and standards adopted by FAS;
0   Sub-project design needs to stimulate the use o f local materials, simple and indigenous
    technologies, and labor intensive techniques;
0   The Nucleo Comunitario inconjunction with local administration should prepare a sustainability
    plan (as part o f the sub-project proposal) specifying a budget and a schedule o f activities to sustain
    the operation and maintenance o f the facilities;
0   Rehabilitation o f existing infrastructures, if economically viable, should be preferred to construction
    o f new infrastructures.

Legal Criteria:
0  The community needs to demonstrate right o f use o f the land where the facility i s going to be built;
   FAS needs to verify that the N k l e o Comunitario and other partners are legally established as
   representatives o f the community.

EnvironmentalCriteria:
   Sub-projects need to be screened by the Nucleo Comunitario and FAS to identify potential adverse
   impacts on the environment;
   Sub-projects will be subject to environmental analysis (EA) if substantially adverse impacts are
   expected;
   Mitigation measures will be funded under the proposed project as appropriate;
   FAS staff inthe provincial offices will be responsible for screening, review and clearance o f
   sub-project EAs;
   The Operational Manual will provide details regarding environmental management and assessment
   under the proposedproject;
   Sub-projects do not cause involuntary replacement.

Gender Criteria:
 0   Sub-projects need to have a direct beneficial impact on women and youth. Appropriate measures
    need to be taken to encourage participation and project benefits to women andyouth;
 0   Gender-inclusive membership and decision-making by the Nucleo Comunitario should be closely
    monitored.




                                                     - 45 -

(Pilot) ComponentI(b) (US$ 1million)

Conflict Impact andVulnerabilityAssessment and Support to Vulnerable Groups andPeace
Building

Countvy Context

While the country i s slowly starting to recover from 27 years o f conflict between the Government and the
National Union for the Total Independence o f Angola (UNITA), the civil strife has left the social and
economic systems indisarray. Some 750,000 Angolans have died from conflict-related causes, including
famine and disease; numerous people have beenmaimed inthe violent struggles and by landmines; and
many children have been orphaned as a direct result of the war. The main consequences o f the war can be
grouped into three categories. Firstly, as a result o f the war, many Angolans have difficulty sustaining
their basic livelihoods, due to the destruction o f social and economic infrastructure, the loss o f assets and
psychological trauma. Basic infrastructure such as community centers, water supply and sanitation,
markets, schools and health facilities are inshambles, and local food supply systems and trading
networks have been severely disrupted. Inaddition, several parts o f the country are still inaccessible due
to land mine infestation and/or lack o f transport infrastructure.

Secondly, family and community networks that formerly took care o f its most vulnerable members, have
been compromised due to displacement, economic hardship, natural shocks, and physical and emotional
consequences o f the war. Inaddition to the daunting challenge o f recovering from civil strife, Angola i s
also beginning to see the increasingly devastating effects o f HIVIAIDS. People living with HN/AIDS,
children who are taking care o f sick relatives and/or who have lost their caretakers due to HIV/AIDS as
well as orphan-, female-, and elderly-headed households face a high degree o f vulnerability to income
loss and becoming trapped inpoverty. Critically vulnerable population groups have been most adversely
affected by multiple shocks and, as a result, often lack access to the limited existing basic social services.
Natural shocks such as the current drought exacerbate the livelihoods o f many Angolans. At present,
about two million people, or one quarter o f the country's population, depend entirely on food aid to
survive. Thirdly,over four million people were internally displaced; nearly 450,000 sought refuge in
neighboring countries; and about 500,000 ex-combatants and their families are yet to be resettled. The
reintegration o f those mostly asset-deprived population segments into communal life increases the
competition over scarce resources inthe receiving communities.

Inpost-conflict Angola the capacities o findividual households and communities to cope with different
types o f risks are severely constrained. As a result o f the conflict the majority o f poor community
members have difficulties sustaining their basic livelihoods, many are deprived from their assets, have
 lost their self-reliance, have very limited ways and means to generate income, are often faced with strong
 skill constraints, lack access to markets, and suffer frompsychological damage. The post-conflict
 capacity to become less vulnerable i s extremely weak. The existing coping mechanisms are stretched to
the limit and the social networks community members once relied on, tend to be broken down. A high
 degree o f disparity between population groups, intense competition over scarce resources, or lack o f local
 leadership and conflict resolution mechanisms could represent a highrisk for renewed conflict and, thus,
 increased vulnerability.




                                                      - 46 -

Rationalefor Component I@)

Inadditionto buildingphysical andhumancapitalthrough theprovisionandrehabilitationof small-scale
social and economic infrastructure, andthe strengthening o f community and municipal capacity, social
capital buildingi s a principal project development objective. Social capital is broadly understood as the
norms and networks (among community membersand local institutions) that enable collective action
around common goals. Social capital includes elements of community-level organizational capacity
(common-interest association, organizational skills and competencies, accountability mechanisms) and
cognitive capital (trust, reciprocity, belonging, civic identity and engagement). Inother words, investing
insocialcapitalinvolves bondingforms ofcapital within communities andbridgingforms ofcapital
between communities and different types of institutions. To this end, components I(a) and I1aim to
support a governance structure that facilitates participation, social inclusionand mutual accountability.

Components I(a) and I1undoubtedly foster human capital buildingby bringingcommunities together to
design and implementphysical capital rehabilitation, andby strengthening human capital; however, it i s
uncertain how the particularity o f the post-conflict context constrains or fosters social capacity building.
Inother words, it is unclear how thepresenceofparticularly vulnerable community groups andthe
impact o f years o f prolonged conflict on communities affect the participatory processesthat are at the
core o f FAS 111.For example, it i s uncertain to what extent vulnerable community groups have been able
to benefitfrom structures and services provided under FAS, and to what extent differentcommunity
groups have the commitment and capacity to engage intruly collective action around a common goal. A
separate component Ib i s thus neededto: (i) the potential barriers to as well as opportunities for
                                               assess
social capital building under FAS III;and (ii)  test, on a pilot basis, an innovative approach for addressing
fundamental constraints to and opportunities for social capacity building.

ComponentDescription

Component I11comprises two main activities: (i)conflict impact and vulnerability assessment, which i s
                                                    a
expected to guide the detailed design o f (ii) interventions inresponse to community demand for
                                               pilot
support to vulnerable groups and peacebuilding identifiedthrough the assessment.

Conflict Impact and Vulnerabilitv Assessment (CIVA). The objective o f this assessmenti s to provide
operationally relevant information on the nature and scope o f vulnerability and the impact of conflict at
the community level. More specifically, this will entail assessingto what extent vulnerable population
groups are able to benefit from project interventions, and to what extent war-affected communities are
able to makejoint decisions and negotiate differentviewpoints.

More specifically, the assessmentwill entail: (i)   a review o f available sources o f information; (ii)
                                                                                                      field
work in 10pre-identifiedcommunities inthree provinces to obtain qualitative and quantitative
informationrelevant to social capital building; and (ii)   a national workshop inLuanda to disseminate the
findings and review internationalbestpractice options for addressing community demand for support to
vulnerable groups and peacebuilding efforts. Inorder to take stock o f communities' social capital bases
and identify constraints to and opportunities for strengthening social capital under the project, the scope
o f work comprises five core areas o f inquiry:(i)  socio-economic and socio-cultural characteristics; (ii)
institutional context; (iii)vulnerability and risk; (iv) social cohesion; and (v) community demand for
 support to vulnerable groups and peacebuilding activities.




                                                      - 47 -

The following are the core themes of inquiryand issues to be addressed:

e        Socio-economic and Socio-cultural Characteristics. The consultant i s expected to assess social
diversity inthe pre-identified communities, based on socio-cultural concepts such as political and
religious affiliation, ethnicity, level o fphysical andmental ability, age, gender, status, income level, etc.

e        Institutional Context. The consultancy will assess the degree to which community-based
institutional and incentive structures are compatible with the social capital buildingobjectives stated
under the project. Key local institutions and relations among them will be analyzed, with a particular
focus on how existing systems define and respond to the special needs o f critically vulnerable community
groups, and how they influence the resolution o f potential differences among community groups. Other
areas o f inquiryinclude accountability chains; institutional interests; inclusiveness; influence and access;
and the impact o f legal and administrative environments o f institutions.

e        Vulnerability and Risk. Essentially, households become vulnerable when their capacity to cope
productively with risks i s severely compromised, due to a combination o f limited assets and high
exposure to risks such as conflict, displacement, drought, disease, war-related disability, premature death
o f heads o f households, etc. The assessment will identify different dimensions and the incidence o f
vulnerability inrelation to food security and nutrition; personal safety relatedto land mines as well as
abuse; availability o f basic non-food items and shelter; access to basic social and economic services; and
ability to pursue economic and social activities; etc. It i s crucial that the gathered data be disaggregated
on the basis o f relevant social, economic, and cultural dimensions.


0        Social Cohesion. The consultancy i s expected to assess the commitment and capacity o f
different community groups to take joint action around common goals, and to engage in inclusive and
collective decision making. More specifically, the consultancy will assess: the impact o f the prolonged
conflict on key aspects o f community life and makeup; existence o f genuine and representational local
leadership structures; inclusiveness o f social, economic, and political processes; nature and history o f
differing viewpoints among different community groups; community capacity to effectively contain,
channel, and negotiate differences; effectiveness o f traditional ways o f fostering integration.

e        Demandfor Support to Vulnerable Groups and Peacebuilding Efforts. The consultant will
assess community demand for support to vulnerable groups and peacebuilding activities under FAS 111.
The assessment i s expected to solicit information on the perceived types o f services needed; rank the
priority o f requested services; assess stakeholders' willingness and capacity to deliver services; and
identify potential constraints regarding the delivery o f services. The findings o f this particular area o f
inquiryare expected to informFAS management and the World Bank which types ofinterventions
should be funded under the project, on a pilot basis, to support the design and implementation o f
sub-projects to assist the most vulnerable community groups and peacebuilding efforts.

Pilot Interventions to Suuuort Vulnerable Groups and Peace Buildina. The C I V A i s expected to provide
practical guidance to FAS management and the World Bank regarding the design o f pilot interventions to
respond to revealed community demand for support to vulnerable groups and peace buildingactivities. In
accordance with the participatory approach that i s at the core o f the project, the purpose o f the pilot
activities will be to test an innovative approach to build on opportunities for and address fundamental
constraints to social capital building.Essentially, the findings and recommendations o f the assessment
are expected to guide the design o f pilot interventions, utilizing a sub-project approach, specifically
targeted toward: (i)  improving access o f particularly vulnerable groups to the structures and services



                                                      -48-

providedunder FAS to ensure an equitable distribution o f project benefits; and (ii)     enhancing cohesion
between different community segments by strengthening their commitment and capacity to engage in
dialogue and collective action.

Inlight o fthe multi-sectoral nature o fFAS IandI1activities, FAS's significant contribution to social
capital building, and its unprecedented experience in the area o f community-led provision o f basic
services, FAS I11provides a unique window o f opportunity for responding to community demand for
support to vulnerable groups and peacebuilding activities. Inaddition, FAS would be an excellent entry
point for at least some o f the activities identified through this consultancy, inview o f communities'
familiarity with the project, its existing social mobilizationmechanisms within FAS, and its ongoing
monitoring and evaluation process. Furthermore, the extension o f the FAS Iand I1approach to vulnerable
groups and peacebuilding i s consistent with the multi-sectoral nature o f FAS; supporting activities that
are within the mandate o f MINARS, in a cost-effective manner, thus has a precedent. However, in
reviewing the identified needs for supportive interventions, a decision will have to be made as to which
o f the requested activities can be realistically be taken on by FAS, and which interventions should be
undertakenby MINARS.

The activities under this component will be consistent with the general principles underlying components
I a and 11. The basic assumption under all three components i s that communities have the best "expert"
knowledge o f those who are most vulnerable intheir midst. Community participation and collective
action, both horizontally and vertically, are thus at the heart o f this component. However, unlike
components I a and 11,this component will focus exclusively on providing "soft ware" type o f support,
rather than providing or rehabilitating physical infrastructure.

Site Selectionfor Vulnerability and Conflict Impact Assessment and Pilot Interventions

The assessment, and subsequently the pilot activities, are expected to be undertakenina total o f 10
pre-identified communities in three provinces, which will be selected by FAS management in
collaboration with central and local governments. The selection criteria for the three provinces include:
(i) degreeofaffectednessbyconflictasmeasuredbytherelativenumbersofdisplacedand
     relative
resettled persons, destruction o f agricultural fields, land mine infestation, and isolation from market
structures; (ii) relative existence o f food security and adequate nutrition levels; (iii) availability
                                                                                           relative
of basic non-food items and shelter; (iv) relative availability of basic social services such as health care,
education, water and sanitation; (v) relative availability o f basic economic infrastructure such as markets;
(vi) presence o f FAS; and (vii) local presence o fNGOs. This methodology will be applied, ina cascading
manner, inthe selection o f a total o f 10 communities inthree pilot provinces. All three government levels
need to be included inthe selection o f the pilot provinces, municipalities, and communities, in
accordance with the specified criteria. The pilot activities may be scaled up, based on the achievement o f
a very clearly identified set o f indicators by the end o f the first year o f implementation. Inaddition, the
nature and scope o f activities will be reevaluated and, ifwarranted, adjusted, duringmid-term review.

Budget Envelope

 To be determined; depends on the cost o f the consultancy, whether the assessment leads to the adoption
 o f pilot interventions, and on the number o f sites.

Institutional Arrangements

 The consultant for the Conflict Impact and Vulnerability Assessment i s expected to be selected and



                                                        - 49 -

supervised by FAS, within the existing institutional arrangements. With regardto the pilot interventions
to be implemented inthe form o f community-based sub-projects, FAS will need to contract the services
o f a social protection specialist to supplement its capacity. This expert i s expected to provide support to
FAS management as well as the pilot provincial offices, inparticular with regard to social promotion
activities, sub-project appraisal and supervision o f sub-project implementation. In addition, in line with
the multi-sectoral nature o f FAS, MINARS representatives will be included at the various government
levels: (i)at the central government level, MINARS needs to be represented inthe project steering
committee; at the provincial government level, a MINARS officer needs to be a member o f the FAS
provincial committees; and at the municipio level, a MINARS officer needs to be involved in supervision
and quality control as well as monitoring and evaluation activities. The services o f NGOs will be
contracted to assist communities insub-project implementation. Lastly, communities will play a major
role in expressing demand for interventions, and preparing and implementing sub-projects.

ImplementationPlan

The first step will be to procure the Conflict Impact and Vulnerability Assessment consultancy. Inview
o f the innovative nature o f this activity, holding a bidder conference would be advisable, to ensure that
potential bidders have a clear understanding o f the themes and issues to be addressed. Criteria for
evaluating bidders' qualification include: presence o f a local office inAngola, preferably local offices in
the pilot provinces, sound financial management and audited accounts, demonstrated experience in
undertaking similar assignments, experience in working with conflict-affected communities, and
qualified technical and cost proposals.

Secondly, based on the findings o f the C I V A and the decision to adopt, on a pilot basis, a sub-project
approach to support vulnerable groups and peacebuilding activities, the services o f a social protection
 specialist will be procured. Essentially, it i s expected that, based on the community demand identified
through the assessment as well as best practice interventions determined at the national workshop,
 sub-projects will be identified as an integral (and mainstreamed) part o f the social promotion process
under component Ia. However, the social promotion material for component I aneeds to be modified, to
 ensure that it includes information on component Ib, and that it emphasizes basic human and citizen
rightsto avoid stigmatization o fthe most vulnerable community groups. The sub-project cycle envisaged
 under this sub-component follows the process outlined under component Ia. (However, the project forms
 needto be evaluated to ensure they are appropriate for sub-projects under this component.)

 Project Component 2 US$lO.OO million
                       -
 MunicipalDevelopmentComponent

 The MD component will contribute towards the achievement o f the twin overall objectives o f the FAS I11
 program by assisting municipal governments (including municipal administrations and municipal
 councils) with capacity development and financial resources to become proficient inthe provision o f
 social and economic services to communities. The Municipal Administration (MA) i s the
 decision-making body which i s headedby an Administrator who i s appointedby central government. The
 Municipal Council or Consultative Forum, which i s referred to as, Conselho de Concertacao, i s an
 advisory body to the MA which includes representatives from communities and civil society. Over the
 implementation period o f the project, municipal governments will be expected: (i)      to gradually become
 proficient invarious activities o f the C D sub-project cycle (i.e. sensitization, participatory needs
 assessment, appraisal, approval, etc) and take over responsibility from FAS management; and (ii)       to
 prepare, finance and implement municipal level sub-projects ina phased manner according to their own
 speed and implementation capacity. These municipal level projects will be preparedbased on C D D
 principles and based on a municipal development plan.


                                                       - 50 -

Based on a graduation scheme and specific eligibility criteria (as outlined inthe Operational Manual), the
MDcomponent will provide municipalgovernments: (i)           financing for capacity development activities;
and (ii) "administrative grants" to cover their operating costs and carry out all activities o f the C D
sub-project cycle with a view to eventually develop, implement and monitor their municipal development
plans. Those municipalities which are advanced in their implementation capacity (to be assessed
bi-monthly based on the municipal graduation scheme and measurable targets as outlined inAnnex 2)
will be eligible for additional funds to finance social and economic infrastructure sub-projects, which
will be operated and maintainedby the municipal administration.

Capacity development activities will be at the heart o f the graduation scheme, and will be strategically
promoted in accordance with the required tasks the MASwill undertake at each level. They include
capacity assessments; training o f trainers; tailor made workshops; on-the-job exercises; field visits;
coordination; networking; database development, analysis and updating; questionnaires; checklists and
provision o f equipment. From a capacity development perspective, the MDcomponent aims to facilitate
a change in institutional arrangements by devolving present FAS functions to eligible MAS.The ultimate
goal o f this graduation `learning' process i s to nurture the development o f FAS capacity to assume its
envisaged role o f a financing and quality control agency while the MASwill become the managers o f a
project portfolio within the context o f a municipal development plan to deliver accountable public goods
through participatory processes to communities. The capacity development activities will be incremental
with enoughtime and resources available for FAS to capacitate the MASofficials and professional staff,
and to buildthe necessary mechanisms for knowledge management and institutional collaborative
networking among line ministries, Provincial Governments, MAS,NGs and potential implementing
partners .

Under the MDC, FAS will also seek formal partnerships with various organizations to buildon their
experiences and to strengthen the l i n k s between civil society, municipal governments and donors towards
a comprehensive local development process.

It shouldbe notedthat the MD component will be supporting a long termprocess          -- probably   to last
longer than the project implementation period for some municipalities -- o f capacity development to
prepare the municipal governments for increased responsibilities under a decentralized governance
system. At the end o f the project period, different municipalities are expected to be at different capacity
and implementation levels. Thus, different municipalities would have achieved different levels of: (i)
competency with regards to the sub-project cycle activities; and (ii)   progress indeveloping and
implementing municipal development plans.

Description of Activities

The MD component will provide, for eligible municipalities (based on criteria outlined below), financing
for capacity buildingactivities to enable municipal governments to develop, implement and monitor
municipal development plans. The M D C will also finance sub-projects, social and economic
infrastructure which are expected to benefit more than one community and will be operated and
maintained by the municipal administration, within the annual municipal plans. Each municipality
participating inthe program will be expected, in aphased manner based on their own capacity and
speed, to: (i) conduct community social mobilization and participatory needs assessments; (ii)       produce a
municipal geographical profile and a sectoral analysis; (iii)   discuss this analysis within the Consultative
Forum with all the stakeholders and prioritize its development activities; (iv) elaborate an annual
municipal development plan and a budget; and (v) appraise, cost, implement, supervise sub-projects



                                                      -51  -

within the municipaldevelopment planfollowing the CDC operational guidelines. Finally, municipal
administrationswill be responsible for the operation and maintenance o f the infrastructure and will be
expected to incorporate this element into their annual budgets.

It is envisaged that with support fromthe MDC, MASwill have increasedresponsibilities inthe
municipal development process, and will have access to administrative and project funds as their capacity
to prioritize, prepare, supervise, budget and implement development activities improves. FAS will
implementthe MDC based on a Municipal Graduation Scheme(see Table 1below) that (i) and         builds
monitors MA capacity, (ii)   allows gradual access to administrative and project grants and (iii)gives
increased responsibilities to MASinmanagement o f municipal development with increased capacity.

The MASwill gain "on thejob experience" by participating and gradually taking over all responsibilities
o f the CDC sub-project cycle through differentlevels o f the municipal graduation scheme. Under this
scheme, all eligible municipalities will gradually take over the social promotiodidentification, desk
appraisal, field appraisal, costinghudgeting, approval, accounting for funds, and monitoring/supervision
functions of the sub-project cycle with FAS reducing its responsibilities and becoming a facilitator and
supervisor. There will be quarterly assessments (conducted by a Provincial Assessment Team) which
will review municipaladministration performance based on pre-determinedperformance criteria and
expected outputs at each Level. At Level 8, MASare expected to have started implementingprojects
within their approved municipal development plans with an annual allocation directly provided to the
MASfrom FAS.

Access to Capacity Development:
MDcomponent will support capacity development efforts for all participatingmunicipal administration
officials and professional staff, relevant partner organizations and some provincial staff in: social
mobilization, community-based participatory planning, management and maintenance o f social and
economic infrastructure, participatory monitoring and evaluation and quality control. Inaddition,
municipalteams, relevant provincial staff and Consultative Forumrepresentatives will also be eligible
for capacity development activities on: financial management, procurement planning and management,
technical appraisal and costing, geographical profiling, environmental management and strategic
planning inorder for municipalities to be able to move gradually towards elaboration and implementation
 o f a municipaldevelopment plan, and to effectively assume their expected role as managers o f a project
 portfolio within the context o f a municipal development plan. The capacity development activities are
 aligned with the graduation scheme as outlined inthe MunicipalGraduation Scheme and Operational
 Manual.

 Access to an Administrative Grant:
 Eligiblemunicipal administrations will have access to an administrative fundup to US$40,000 to assist
 themwith administration ofmunicipalactivities, and facilitate the elaboration of amunicipal
 development plan and a budget. These funds will be usedto supplement municipal administration
 physical and/or human capacity; Le. training, operating expenditures, technical services, and equipment
 to facilitate development o f a municipal plan. The Operational Manual contains a negative list for the use
 o f the funds which includes Le. staff salaries, purchase o f vehicles and major civil works. The municipal
 administration will be expected to submit to FAS an annual plan and budget approvedby the
 Consultative Forum for the use o f the funds. The funds will be disbursedin five tranches and across
 differentLevels of the graduation scheme providedthe MA accounts for the previous tranche.

 Access to Fundsfor Municipal Social and Economic Infrastructure Projects:
 Once an MA has produced a municipal development plan, it will be expected to put together a first year



                                                      - 52 -

project portfolio to be funded by FAS and other donors including government resources. Inaddition to
usingthe regular sub-project eligibility criteria, the MASwill use the poverty impact, addressed needs,
population coverage and costs for the prioritization and selection o f projects. Each MA will initially be
eligible for up to US$250,000 to be usedtowards financing o f a number o f their development projects.
There will be a negative list for the use o f these funds which i s included inthe Operational Manual. The
MA will also still have access to administrative grants to be usedtowards project management including
operation and maintenance.

Targeting

the low case scenario (defined by resource envelope available for FAS In),FAS will operate in 11
All municipalities where FAS has been operating will, inprinciple, be eligible for the program. Under

provinces including Bie and Zaire. Under the highcase scenario, FAS intends to gradually expand to all
provinces over the four year period. The sequencing i s expected to be as follows: inthe first year: Zaire
and Bie; inthe second year: 3 municipios inthe North cluster (Kwanza Norte, Malange and Uige); inthe
thirdyear: 3 municipios inthe SouthEast cluster (Moxico and Cuando Cubango); and inthe fourth year:
3 municipios in the North East cluster (Lunda Norte and Lunda Sul). The expansion will largely depend
on the enabling environment.

Under the low case scenario, 11 municipal administrations are expected to participate in the MDC. Inthe
first year, only 8 MASwill be eligible; in the second year 3 more MASwill be eligible. Ifcertain MAS
drop out o f the program due to capacity constraints or non-compliance with the programguidelines, new
MASwill be taken onboard. Under the high case scenario, 19MASare expected to participate inthe
MDC. Inthe first year, only 8 MASwill be eligible; inthe second year 11more MASwill be eligible
from the remaining uncovered provinces. Ifcertain MASdrop out o f the program due to capacity
constraints or non-compliance with the program guidelines, new MASwill be taken on board.

Following the completion o f the initial information campaign, FAS will identify Municipal
Administrations (MA) eligible to participate inthe program based o n the following criteria: (i)
functioning administration specifically with at least 4 essential staff including the Administrator, Deputy
Administrator, Financial Management Specialist, Municipal Planner inplace; (ii)      political will
manifestedthrough a letter to be sent to FAS Management expressing interest inthe program; (iii)      civil
society representation/presence inthe Municipality; i.e. NGOs, church organizations, community
organizations and private sector associations; (iv) commitment to establish the Consultative Forum as an
advisory body to the Municipal Administration; (v) geographic access by FAS; and (vi) proximity to
support infrastructure such as banks, suppliers, markets, etc.

Once the above are fulfilled and verified, a Memorandum o f Understanding outlining the program access
and operational guidelines will be signed. Following the signing o f the MOU, the municipality will be
expected to open a separate bank account with the Municipal Administrator, Municipal Planner and FAS
Provincial Director as designated signatories.

Once part o f the program, a baseline capacity assessment will be conducted inall participating municipal
administrations to determine capacity levels (human and physical) and training needs to prepare and
implement a municipal development plan and budget. All MASwill be assessedby a Provincial
Assessment Team on a quarterly basis to determine progress and movement to higher or lower levels, and
gain eligibility for increased fundingfollowing the graduation scheme outlined above.




                                                      - 53 -

CapacityDevelopment
Capacity development will be at the core o f the MD component as its longer term objective i s
capacitatingmunicipal administrations and their local partners inthe execution o f all local development
processes. Once a municipality becomes eligible under the MDcomponent, there will be a participatory
capacity assessment conducted to identify each MA capacity to operate within the FAS framework and to
move through the graduation scheme. There will be two large areas o f capacity development, focusing
on: (i) development principles and processes; i.e. social mobilization, participatory assessment, strategic
planning, etc.; and (ii)technical skills training in areas supporting the sub-project cycle and the
municipal development plan: financial management, procurement, project management, appraisal, etc.
Most o f the training will be provided to all participating municipalities together with key representatives
o f the provincial government and consultative fora (CF) in standard modules tailored by FAS staff by
field o f expertise.

Training to FAS staff i s expected to be developed and delivered by a number o f specialized
organizations, in coordination with FAS, which have demonstrated excellence intheir particular field o f
expertise. Discussions are ongoing to align efforts with organizations at local level such as UNDP, GTZ
and ADRA Key inthe MD component i s the "learning by doing" application o f human, organizational
             .
and institutional capacity enhancement through the involvement o f the municipality officials and staff,
CF and provincial government representatives along the graduation scheme and later inthe
implementation o f C D sub-projects. FAS staff and the expert organizations responsible for the delivery
of the training, knowledge management activities and collaborative strategies will provide close
follow-up support and quality control to all municipalities.

ImplementationArrangements
The MD component will primarily be executed by municipal administrations and municipal councils
(Consultative ForudConselho do Concertacao) with technical and logistic support from FAS central and
regional management teams, provincial staff, partner organizations such as NGOs, other service
providers and participation from communities and civil society. Different municipal administrations are
expected to be at different Levels o f the graduation scheme towards assuming full responsibility o f
preparation and implementation o f community development projects by the endo f the four year
program. Duringthe program implementation period, FAS management, at each Level o f the graduation
scheme, will transfer more o f its implementation responsibilities onto the municipal administrations
becoming more o f a facilitator, supervisor providing funds, logistics, technical support and quality
control to the local development process. FAS provincial staff will be the direct link with the municipal
administrations and will be responsible for supervision and follow-up on day-to-day implementation.
Duringthis devolution process, provincialadministrations andpartner organizations are also expected to
provide technical support to municipal administrations. Capacity buildingi s expected to be providedby a
number o f service providers under the guidance o f FAS management on a regional basis. Further details
o f the implementation arrangements are elaborated inthe Operational Manual and reflected inthe
Municipal Graduation Scheme below.

The component will be overseen by a Provincial Coordination Committee (inwhich FAS will be
included) which will provide advice to municipal administrations on their development activities and
ensure that municipal development plans are incorporated into provincial and national plans and that
sustainability o f development activities at the local levels are ensured. Municipal administrations will be
expected to provide regular progress reports to this committee at quarterly meetings.




                                                      - 54 -

Monitoring and Evaluation
The monitoring and evaluation system which has been inplace during FAS I1will be adapted to capture
the new elements within the MDC and will be more participatory. Overall, the same system o f
information gathering, reporting and evaluation mechanisms are expected to be used for the MDC.

FAS will track the following output indicators for the M D C during the implementation period:

0   # o f MASat different levels o f the graduation scheme
0   # o f CFs established and functioning
0   # o f annual administrative budgets prepared and approved
0   # o f bank accounts opened and # o f first tranches deposited
0   # o fNGOs contracted and trained
0   # o f geographic profiles approved
0   # o f sectoral analysis approved
0   # o f municipal development plans approved
0   # o f projects approved and funded
0   # o f procurementplans approved
0   # o f deposits for projects
0   # o f projects completed
0   # o f people trained by different subject areas/modules (CDD, PM&E, quality control, environmental
    management, financial management, procurement planning and management, municipal planning
    process and technical appraisal) improvement inthe skills acquired and practiced by MA staff)
0   improvedbeneficiary satisfaction with relevant service delivery agencies/providers (MA, FAS)


Yearly targets and end o f program targets will have to be developed to monitor progress. FAS will use
the following means o f verification to track progress on the above indicators:

0    Quarterly reports (physical and financial) from MAS
0    Account justifications from MAS
0    CF meeting minutes
0    Reports from provincial M I S
0    Beneficiary Assessments
0    Quarterly capacity assessments for MAS

 Standard reporting formats for quarterly reports and account justifications will be provided to the MASas
 part o f the training and induction on FAS procedures and guidelines and as part o f subsequent capacity
 development activities.




                                                     - 55 -

                              Table 1: Municipal Graduation Scheme

Graduation          What                           How                             Who                When
-
Level  ItepII      Key Area                     Activities             I Responsible1TargetGroup Timeframe
                                                                                                 I
           Promotion o f FAS        Meetings with target groups in all FAS          MAS,Central August 2003
           activities             selected provinces                                and Prov Gov,
                                    Radio campaigns                                 NGOs, donors
                                    Folders and posters inpublic
                                  spaces
-                                   National `launching' ceremony
           Identification o f MAS Selectionbased o n a checklist o f FAS            MAS          September
                                  agreed criteria                                                2003
                                    Report to MinPlan
           M o U                    T meeting with MASon FAS            FAS         MA and       October
                                  procedures (detail  +key              Provincial Represent.    2003
                                  implementation documents              Director    Prov Gov      (1 day)
                                  including ENV guidelines)                                       (15 days)
                                    M o U analysis by MASand                                      (1 day)
                                  discussion
                                     Signature ceremony with MA
                                   staff, FAS and Province Govemor
            Capacity needs           Development and administration FAS             MAS           October
            assessment (Human,     o f questionnaire by FAS at regional                           2003
            Org, Institutional)    level
            Establishment o f        Meetings with stakeholders for      MAS        MAS,NGOs, November
            Consultative Forum at discussing Forum arrangements                     communities, 2003
            municipal level                                                         Prov Gov, etc
             CD, CDD, PM&E,          Tailor made material and T at       FAS        MAS,CF,       December
            quality control, envr, regional level
            Mnmnt.                I                                                 PGov          POo3

     7       C D municipal finance   2/3 days tailor made material and FAS and       MAS,CF,      January 2004
            management             T at regional level (learning by      consultants Prov Gov
                                   doing)                                (IFAL,etc)
     8       Budgetfor               Budget for year 1prepared during MAS            MAS          January 2004
             administrative needs step 7 and presented to CF.
     9       Financial agreement     Signature at CF meeting             FASand      MAS          February 2004
             for administrative                                          MAS                      (1 day)
            needs
     10      Administrative bank     Bank mandate signatures             FASand      MAS          February 2004
             account opened                   FAS Province Director,     MAS
                                                (expenditure by

                                                   administrative funds
jutput: Bank account for administrative needs opened and administrative funddeposited                          L


                                                 - 56 -

     11    CD Procurement           FAS carry out T on procurement       'AS       4As, Prov  ]March2004
           (contracting)
     12    a) Identificationand      Identification and contracting o f  hAs                  April to June
           contracting o fNGOs NGOs through procurement process                               I
                                                                                              2004
           for assisting inthe    (review consultancy ceilingup to
           poverty mapping,       USS30,OOO)
           sectoral analysis and
           elaboration of
           municipaldev plan      .  Tailor made material and T at
           b)Orientationof        regional level specifically to ensure L'ASand
           NGOs on FAS            uniformity of approach to PM, SM, consultant
           guidelines and         MDP preparation
           approach to PM, SA
           and MDP preparation
      13   Administrative grant      Firsttranche of administrative     M N F A S MAS          June 2004
           management             grant accounted for and second
                                  tranche deposited
htput: NGOs capacitated and contractedand first tranche ofthe administrative grant accounted for.
1     14   Municipal              Per TOR to be prepared by FAS         MASand    MAS,Prov     July 2004
            geographical profiling                                      NGOs      Gov, CF,
                                                                                  communities

     I     I
                                                                                  communities
      16    Administrative grant      Second tranche o f administrative M N F A S MAS          August 2004
                                  grant accounted for and third
     I     Imanagement            ltranche deDosited                    I         I            I
3utput: Municipal geographical profiling and sectoral analysis developed and approved by CF and second      1


>     17    Elaboration o f       Per TOR to be prepared by FAS         MAS       MAS,CF,       September
            municipal                                                             communities, 2004
            development plan                                                      Prov Gov
      18    Administrative grant  0 Third tranche o f administrative    M N F A S MAS           September
            management            grant accounted for and fourth                                2004
                                  tranche deposited
3utput: Municipaldeveloped plan approved by CF and Province Government andthirdtranche of administrative
Fant accounted for.




                                                 - 57 -

 9 lpreparation of project     Prioritization from municipal     /MAS      IMAs,CF,     loctober 2004
    orifolio year i         1.
                              development plan basedon agreed               communities,
                              criteria and according to available          Prov Gov
                              resources (set up criteria)
                               Approval by CF
 0 Social promotion in         Community mobilization             MASand    Community   October 2004
   communities for             Election o fNCs                    SP        Community
   project                     CD NCs on project cycle            Community N C
   implementation (incl. management                               SP
   envr. Mngmt.)
 1 Technical appraisal         Tailor made material and T at      FAS       MAS,CF,     November
   a)CD                       regional level                      MAS       Prov Gov     onwards
   b)appraisal                  Checklist (guideline) on site (to           Communities (5 days)
                              include envr. issues)
2  Operational and             Detailedproject costing and        MAS       MAS,CF,     November
   physical budgeting,        maintenance plan                              communities, 2004
   procurement and              Development of procurement plan             Prov Gov     (5 days)
   maintenance plan             Approval by CF
   year 1                       Presentation to Prov Gov
                                                                                         November




24 Procurement of               Application based on agreed       MAS       Community,   December
   contractors                procurement guidelines                        service      2004
                                                                            suppliers    (50 days)
25 Financial agreement          Signature at CF meeting           FASand    MAS          December
   for managingproject                                            MAS                    2004
   portfolio                                                                             (1 day)
26 Opening bank account Bank mandate signatures                   FASand    MAS          December
   for project portfolio      required: FAS Province Director,    MAS                    2004
                              MAS,SEPE (expenditureby                                    (2 days)
                              procurement)
                                FAS deDosit funds



27 Financial agreement          Signature at CF meeting           FAS, MAS,Community     January
   betweenMAs/NCs                                                 N C                    2004 (1 day)
28 Project                      Application of FAS guidelines     MAS       Community    January 2004
   Implementation and           Administration o f checklist and                         (6 months)
   Monitoring                 quarterly reports to FAS and CF
29 Ex-post evaluation           Application of FAS evaluation     FAS       FAS, CF,     Midterm One
   a) FAS                     form                                FAS, N C  WB,          year complet.
   b)external                   Contract consultants              and MAS community,
                                                                            Prov Gov




                                            - 58 -

Key:
MA-MunicipalAuthority
T -training
Prov Gov -Provincial Government
CDD - Community DrivenDevelopment
NC -Nucleus Group
PM&E -Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation
CF - Consultative Forum
CD - Capacity Development
SP - Social Promoters
SEPE- S e q k de Estudos, Planeamentoe Estatistica (Section o f Study, Planning and Statistics)




                                                     - 59 -

                                          Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                                    ANGOLA: Third Social Action Fund (FAS 111)




 Community Development                                                                            60.00
 Municipal Development                                                                             8.00                  0.00                   8.00
 InstitutionalStrengthening                                                                        2.40                  2.40                   4.80
 Operating Costs                                                                                   8.40                  2.00                  10.40
 Unallocated                                                                                       7.60                  2.00                   9.60
 Total BaselineCost                                                                               86.40                  6.40                 92.80
  Physical Contingencies                                                                          13.10                  0.20                  13.30
  Price Contingencies                                                                             13.10                  (I:):                 13.30
                                                                                                                                      ~




                                         Total Proiect Costs'                              I     112.60        I                             119.40
I                                   Total Financing Required                               I     112.60        I         6.80         I      119.40




 Community sub-projectslgrants                                                                      85.00                    0.00                   85.00
                                                                                                     0.00                    0.00                     0.00
 Small Works                                                                                         2.00                    0.00                     2.00
 Goods                                                                                               0.20                    1.80                     2.00
 Consultant servicesltraining                                                                        3.00                    3.OO                     6.00
 Operating Costs                                                                                    13.00                    0.00                   13.OO
 Unallocated                                                                                        10.00                    2.00                   12.00
                                                         Total Proiect Costs1                      113.20                    6.80                  120.00
                                                Total Financing RequiredI                          113.20      I             6.80 I                120.00

   1
    Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m)and the total project cost, net o f taxes, is 120 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 45.83%
   o f total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                    - 60 -

                         Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
                          ANGOLA: Third Social Action Fund (FAS 111)

                                    Economic and FinancialAnalysis

I EconomicRatesofReturn

Economic rates o f return (ERR) for FAS 111have not been calculated as was the case for sub-projects in
FAS Iand FAS I1due to difficulties inobtaining meaningful data especially for estimating accrued
benefits. Calculating ERRSfor social funds tends to pose problems given the diversity with which
communities tend to choose projects. It i s however important to recognize that what communities have
selected as top priority areas are education, health, water and sanitation. These investments tend to give
highrates o freturn inmost countries inAfrica. Basically because they provide basic services which are
crucial inthe formation o f a productive society. Psacharopoulos (1994)' estimated the ERR for education
inLesotho and foundthat primary education yielded 10.7%, secondary 18.6%and tertiary was at 10.2%.
Similarly, inMalawi2.the rates of return were found to be 28% for primary school education, 15% for
secondary schools, 50% for boreholes and water points, and 26% for rural road rehabilitation. Under
FAS 111,the informationmanagement systemwill be greatly improved and directed towards capturing
informationneeded to measure the cost-benefits and economic rates o f returno f individual subprojects
and FAS as a whole.

Table 1: Total Number of Completed Projects and Costs in F A S I1

                               No. o f       Total cost by      Average      YOshare      % share
                             projects '        sector ($        Cost per     o f cost by by no. o f
                                               million)         project        sector     projects
                                                                ($'OOO)
Education                     338               14.7           43.6          65.2         37.0
Health                          92               2.9            32.0         13.0         10.1
Water and Sanitation          374                3.O             8.1         13.5         40.9
ProductiveIEconomic             99               1.7            18.0           7.9        10.8
Number includesI.G.A.
projectsunder FAS I.
Environment                     11            0.085              7.7           0.4         1.2
Total                      I  914         I    22.4          I  24.7        I
'Number includesappraisedprojects awaitingfinancial approval(6% of number)

Table 1 shows the distribution o f projects by sector and associated costs. The majority (41%) o f projects
have been inthe water and sanitation sector. While ifwe look at cost implication, education has
consumed the bulkof the financial resources, 65%. This i s consistent with the needs o f the people but
also reflects two scenarios. The first i s the situation where health (10%) does not necessarily imply low
demand but rather inability by the sectoral ministryto ascertain operational costs.




                                                      -61 -

Table 2: FASI1Cumulativenumber of beneficiariesas of March 2003

    Province            Total            Total            Total           Total          Training
                       number         number of         number of       number of
                       Projects       beneficiaries     temporary       fixedjobs
                                                       jobs created       created
 Cabinda                  122            3 1.623           1.564               341           86
 Bengo                    104            37,739            1,116               441           93
 Luanda                   117            51,448             480                543          120
 Kwanza-Sul               117            632,170            829                179           99




 Cuneen                   116            109.407           1.005               537          144
 Total             II    914        II 1.837.736    1I    9.252      I1     4.225     II  1034          II

Table 2 gives a more detailedpicture o f how much FAS IIhas benefited the communities across
provinces. N o t only did communities get the benefit o f services created form the social infrastructure but
that jobs were created and so was training offered to various people at regional, provincial and municipal
levels.

I1       EconomicViability (Least Cost Analysis) of FASProjects

FAShas been a least cost tool for delivering community based social infrastructure. FAS activities are
coordinated by the FAS Central Management Unit (CMU) which has 9 Provincial Offices including
Luanda.

Table3: ComparisonbetweenProjectCosts and OperatingCosts (US%million)

                            1998         1999            2000          2001          2002           Total
 Operating costs            1.4           1.3             1.1           1.7           1.9             7.6
 Project costs              4.2           2.8             1.9           5.9          18.8           33.8
 Total costs                5.6           4.1             3.1           7.7          20.8           41.4
 Operating                 25.7          31.9            36.3          22.7           9.4           18.4
 costs as YO
 o f Total
 costs
Source: FAS Management Records (SIFAS)

Delivery costs (administrative and overheads) were assessed for FAS I1and over the period, FAS has
realized institutional efficiency gains due to economies o f scale (Table 3) and improved management and
planning. The percentage operating costs have reduced from 25.7 percent in 1998 to 9.4 percent in2002.
Although the share increased to 36.3 percent in2000 this i s not a result o f increased costs, but rather a
reflection o f the transitional periodbetween FAS Iand FAS 11.




                                                     - 62 -

Table 4 shows that the construction unit costs o f FAS projects as compared to similar construction
programs executed by Ministry o f Public works and other institutions (NGOs) are significantly lower
especially for schools which represent over 65% o f FAS sub-projects. Unit cost for school construction
i s as low as 46% comparedto Ministryo f Public Works implemented construction. Unit costs for
providing potable water vary significantly giventhe different technologies and types o f water points. On
the whole borehole provisionby FAS falls withinthe cost range as presentedbyNGOs. FAS is at time
more costly but the upper range o f some NGOs are 20% higher than FAS. Health facilities are also in a
similar situation where FAS unit costs fall within the average costs o f the Ministry o f Public works, with
the upper limit being 20% lower for FAS

Table 4: Unit Cost Comparison:FAS and Other Providers (US$ per square meter)

Type of Activity                       FAS I1                  Government                  NGO
Education                                256                     300 450                  149 220
                                                                                             -
Health                                  434                      307 540
                                                                     --
Water and Sanitation                     332                                             275 - 400

An important factor is the externality derived from FAS approach to open tender andtransparency in
procurement o f works, goods and services. This coupled with the changing market environment inmost
parts o f the country, unit prices for construction materials have begun to go down. A good example i s
the unit price o f a pocket of cement whose price has gone down by almost 40% from an average of $20 to
$12 inthe past few months. It i s likely that with the peace now prevailing inthe country and improved
access to many parts and provinces, commercial activities will increase and unitprices will go down even
further. FAS will continue exercising rigorous project screening process, strict adherence to agreed
sectoral norms and standards and cut costs o f construction through competitive procurement o f works,
goods and services.

I11      Poverty Targeting

According to the UNDP's Human Development Indexfor 2002, Angola ranks 161th out o f 173 countries.
Rural areas have been worst stricken where a 1998 survey found that 76% o f total spending by rural
households was on food. 2001 data indicated that 45% o f children under five years suffered from
stuntingand 31% were underweigh(. Evidence shows that poverty levels have worsened overtime with
growing inequalit;.    Surveys conducted during the periods 1994195 and 2000101 show that extreme
poverty levels have increased from 13.4% to 23.7% over the same period (INE).




                                                     - 63 -

Figure 1


                            Social percapita expenditure by Province
                                      (1997   -  2 0 0 0 ) US$ Averages


           Ca binda *

            Namibe*

            Luanda*

          Benguela

               Huiia*

            Cunene*

  CuandoCubango

           Lunda-Sui

              Moxico

                Zaire

     Kwanra   - Norte

              Bengo*

       Kwanza-Sui*

       Lunda  - Norte

            nuambox

                 Uige

                   Bi6

            Malange

                      0        5       10     15       20     25   30       35     4 0     45     5 0

 Source:Public Financing o f the Social Sectors inAngola, UNDP, IOM, UNICEF, WHO, August 2002.
(*) Signifies provinces benefiting from FAS I1resources.

Itis understoodthat FAS I1could not target its interventions according to incidences ofpoverty due to
reasons o f insecurity, lack o f access, lack of functioning systems o f support such as banks, capacity and
managerial skills o f FAS provincial teams, etc. Figure 1above shows a high correlation between per
capita expenditures inhealth and education inthe provinces, and coverage o f FAS activities. This sends
at least three messages. The first i s that FAS could be the main vehicle through which significant public
resources are channelled for the social sectors. Secondly it would implythat FAS has invested in
provinces that have had reasonable access duringthe war period. And thirdly, it would mean otherwise
that FAS has gone to areas that are generally already provided for through other sources.




                                                        - 64 -

FAS is active inonly two o fthe least covered one third o fprovinces whose average per capita
expenditure inhealth and education averages $5.8 compared to $26.6 per capita inthe top one third
where FAS i s active.

Table 5: FAS I1OperatingProvinces,Areas with MostAcute Needs and PopulationEstimates

Province                Number of          Disbursements         Population          Per capita       Areas of
                          projects          (US$ million)      estimate('000)       expenditure        Acute
                                                                                       (US$)           Needs
Cabinda                    122                 4.0                  230                  17.6
Bengo                        97                 3.3                 220                  15.0
Luanda                     115                  3.4               2,344                   1.5
Kwanza-Sul                 116                  3.6                 295                  12.5




lcunene            I       116            I     3.2         I       823          I        3.9        I          I




Malanje                       0                   0                1,182                    0
Total                                          31.6          I  13.802                   83.9

Whatever the case may have been, the peace situation now prevailing inthe country offers an opportunity
for government and FAS to review its targeting policy to allow more poverty focus and equity. The new
dispensation offers an opportunity to examine alternative approaches that may begin to address this issue
to ensure that the outcomes o f the overall objectives are met. FAS I11will, therefore, include additional
targeting instruments during its expansionary program to the nine provinces, in so doing deepening
coverage inthe existing provinces and reaching out to needy communities inthe new provinces.

Table 5 presents a picture where FAS I1currently operates vis-d-vis areas that are deemed to have the
most needs according to OCHA. OCHA identified41 areas that are believed to have critical
humanitarian needs. Due to logistical constraints and mine infestation, only 28 sites in 12 provinces
were assessed and the seven indicated in the table above have shown dire needs for humanitarian and
social needs. OCHA developed a methodology which assessed areas includingpopulation demographics,
food security, nutrition, health, water, environmental sanitation, shelter, non-food emergency assistance,
education, protection, security and mines. Social infrastructures have either been destroyed or are not
functioning, and common occurrences inthe seven provinces were highinfant mortality and malnutrition
rates, food insecurity, little access to potable water, highmorbidity due to water-related diseases, and no
organized schooling. This repeats what has been said earlier that FAS I1didnot address the worst areas
for poverty during the period o f civil strife due to inaccessibility. FAS I11will begin to address some o f
the poverty and equity issues and improve the outreach capacity, and identification and targeting o f


                                                      - 65 -

communities.

I V      Fiscal Impact and Sustainability

FASI11plans to scale up activities by introducing new areas o f intervention, and also by expanding to
new provinces and municipalities. IDA financing will increase from $33 million under FAS I1to $55
million inFAS 111. This may exert pressure on government budget. The demand on government
contribution will therefore have to be increased by 53% from an average monthly figure o f $100,000 to
approximately $153,000. The 2003 government recurrent budget shows that ministries o f health and
education are given share allocations o f 5.8 percent and 16.7 percent, respectively. Evenby sub-regional
(SADC) standards, the Angolan Government has continuedto underprovide inthese sectors (see Table 6
and Figure 2). Although recurrent budget allocations to FAS have increased inthe 2003 budget by 25%,
it is crucial that concrete commitments are made for the periodduringwhich FAS IIIwill be
implemented.




Sector           (SADC           IAngola           (Zambia         \Zimbabwe (Botswana               INamibia
Health           17.2            (3.3              17.1            19.2              15.4            110.3
IEducation       116.7           14.7              19.6            123.0             123.1           124.3     I
Source: 0 Financiamento Phblico dos Sectores Socias em Angola, LuisVinyals Torres, 2002


                           Figure 2: Percentage Government Expenditure           -2001)
                  ~         Shares for Health and Education (1997
                                                                                      '
                                                                                       RiHealth
                                                                                         Education
                                                                                                   ~~




The country's main source of fiscal revenue i s taxation o f the oil sector, including the state-owned oil
company Sonangol. As a result, fiscal revenue i s very sensitive to international crude oil price volatility.
Revenueshave not always kept pace with expenditures, a problem made worse at times of oil slumps.
The behavior oftotal government revenue over the past 7 years has shown a very close relationship to oil
price fluctuations (crude oil prices per barrel inrelation to revenue/GDPratio). This therefore makes
revenue projections hard since the country's resource envelope dependslargely on fluctuations in
international oil prices.

The question o f sustainability i s important when it comes to intra-ministerial allocations. Although
commitments are made during sub-project desk appraisal, that respective ministries shall take
responsibility of operating costs, these are often not fully accomplishedpausing a further risk in
sustaining usage o f the amenities created. As the Beneficiary Assessment found out, communities are



                                                         - 66 -

getting frustrated with Ministry o f Healthwhere health posts have beenbuiltbut cannot be operated.
Such situations have forced communities, especially inFAS 11, to drift away from projects that are more
dependent o n government ministries, to those with less dependency such as water.

At community level, there is more hope that when-ever assets are created, communities try hardto
sustain them. The spirit o f self help ensures commitment, ownership and full utilization o f the assets. It
also provides an avenue for skills transfer and hence ensuring simple maintenance o f assets. More-over
community contributions have been some 5.8% o f total project costs inFAS Iand have increased to 7.2%
under FAS 11. The sustainability assessment carried out in 2002 found out that 92% overall o f the assets
created under FAS Iwere still functioning by December 2001. All the schools visitedwere operating and
the majority had adequate number o f teachers with learning materials. 82% o f the 139 water sources
were still functioning and were in reasonably good condition. 18% o f these, however, were inareas that
had been abandoned. With regard to health sector, 95% o f health posts were functioning, with 5% o f
which were in abandoned areas and only 55% o f the health posts received regular support from
provincial offices o f the Ministryo f Health.

FAS I11will, however, look into concerns o f further improving community management and maintenance
o f the assets. The BA highlighted the need for organizing the communities better and providing them
with training to improve management o f the infrastructures. This would assist inmaintaining quality o f
the services and overcoming operational difficulties such as mobilizationo f funds for purchasing spare
parts for borehole pumps and water pipes. Inaddition the communities themselves do not feel compelled
to carry out daily maintenance o f the infrastructures. This i s partially explained by the lack o f well
defined roles and responsibilities, and that the FAS teams do not require from them an infrastructure
maintenance plan before the project hand-over.

As FAS I11extends to new areas, capacity challenges may represent difficulties on sustainability. While
a detailed institutional capacity assessment will be conducted inFAS, it suffices to say that a phased
approach would allow for a strategic staffing plan to be developed, streamline and rationalize functions
inthe wake ofnew demands. There is also needfor FAS central office to strengthen the provincial
management capacity through systematic training; provide support to provincial offices inprocurement
planning, accounting and monitoring; and close monitoring o f provincial targets against actuals.

V        FinancialManagement

FAS I11will continue to utilize the system o f financial management which will ensure transparency and
efficiency infunds utilization. Inaddition to annual reports on sources and utilization o f funds, regular
monitoring and scrutiny mechanisms have been put inplace at all levels o f transactions. Annual external
audits are conductedby a qualified, experienced and independent auditing firm. Inaddition, there are
regular internal auditskhecks on adherence to accounting and administrative norms and procedures.
Communities are informed on the disbursement phases o f each sub project. Appropriate changes will be
made to the overall financial management system inorder to mitigate the risks associated with a weak
control environment as FAS expands.

VI       Cost Comparisons and Scaling-up costs

A cost comparison has been made betweenFAS costs and those o f anNGO (Development Workshop) in
operations conducted inHuambo in2002. The task performed by Development Workshop (DW) was
commissioned by the European Union (PAR program). The bases for selecting DW were: (i)             consistency
inservice providedby DWwith FAS, inthis casepotable water; (ii) philosophy of community
                                                                         the



                                                    - 67 -

contribution; and(iii) availability o f detailed information. DW was contracted by PAR in 2002 to
                        the
provide shallow wells to communities in Huambo Province. The contract s u m was E456,950 which
ended-up by providing 70 wells. Two approaches were deployed (i)      the input-out measure, and (ii)
                                                                                                    the
detailed analysis o f all cost items.

A few facts and assumptions were made mainly referringto the secondapproach so as to determine some
equivalence inthe comparison:

(i)     FAS inthe year 2002 provided 37 boreholes to Huambo while DW provided 70 shallow-wells.
(ii)    The analysis usedaverage costs for boreholes inHuambo established inFAS I1and not actual
        costs per borehole.
(iii)   Apportioning o f water and sanitationratio has been applied to overall FAS Huambo Provincial
        Office costs to get the share o f water and sanitation sub-component.
(iv)    An upward adjustment has beenmade to FAS costs to allow for an increase o fboreholes to 70.
(v)     An upward adjustment has beenmade to DW to accommodate the variation inunit cost of
         shallow-well to borehole. DW average costs are $9500 for a borehole and $4500 for a
         shallow-well.
(vi)    Exchange rate for Euroto US$ was heldat par (2002).

(a)     Input-output measure

The analysis considered a simple calculation of dividingtotal contract amount of E456,950 by the 70
shallow-wells provided. This gave unit cost o f E6,528. During discussion with the relevant NGO it was
established that unit cost for shallow wells if contracted as an expansionary program inareas where they
are already active is $4,000 $5,000 where-by minimizingthe overhead costs. Ifthe same were
                               -
contracted as an expansionary program, each well could cost between $4,000 and $5,000. This approach
therefore represents an additional cost o f 31- 65% when we compare the expansionary costs to the
actual contract unit cost o f E6,528. This difference i s explained inoverheads and administrative costs
that are incurrent inthe process o f creating a new office to meet major obligations. Detailed review o f
the budget shows at least E226,876 in salaries, administrative and support services costs (E121,550,
E28,000 and E77,326 respectively). On the other hand, the equivalent figure for FAS would be the
salaries o f the provincial staffwhich i s $119,301.

This quick analysis implies that direct subcontracting for an entire delegation would cost substantially
more than expanding the current FAS approach. Table 7 shows the cost to FAS for opening-up a new
provincial office to be a total o f $134,064.60. Data from the NGO for opening a new office were not
readily available.

Table 7: FAS current estimatesfor opening-upnew ProvincialOffice

Item description                                                  Totalcost (US$)
3 Vehicles (4x4)                                                  83,483 .OO
Office equipment (6 computers, printers, UPS, etc.)               43,978.32
Furnitureand utensils                                              6,603.28
Total (excluding transportation)                                 134,064.60

(b)       Detail (itemised) cost comparison

By referringto the assumption made above an attempt was made to equatethe activities ineach of the


                                                     - 68 -

organizations by establishing the same number o f boreholes, and converting the unit cost o f a
shallow-well to that o f a borehole.

Table 8: Total F A S Costs for Huambo Provincial Office (US$)

           Cost Item                    IDA               OGE              Donors               Total
Salaries                             113,620                 5,681                           119,301
Operating cost                                              33,500                             33,500
Projects                           1,5 10,482              26,136          90,442          1,627,061
Goods, vehicles, and                                         3,716                              3,716
equipment
Consultants and training                                     8,576         17,080              25,656
Bank charges                               58                    8                                 66
Total                              1,624,160                77,617        107,522          1,809,300

An adjusted cost to determine what wouldbe the share of water and sanitation projects. InHuambo
during 2002 there were 37 water and sanitation projects whose share o fthe total provincialbudget (cost)
for projects was 33.3%. By applying this ratio to all cost items, Table 9 shows that the total amount for
providing the said projects was $490,430.

Table 9: F A S Proportionate Costs for Water and Sanitation in Huambo (US$)

Cost Item                                    Water and Sanitation                          Total
Salaries                                         39.727                                   119.301
Operating costs                                  11,156                                    33,500
Projects                                        429,744                                 1,627,061
Goods, vehicles & equip.                          1,237                                     3,716
Consultants & training                            8,544                                    25,656
Bank charges                                          22                                        66
Total                                           490,430                                 1,809,300

With regard to the NGOs figures, Table 10represents actual costs incurred by DW to provide 70
shallow-wells which are E456,950.




Cost Item                                            Total
Salaries                                            121,550
ODerating costs                                     243.823
lproiects                      I                    202.093                       I

Consultants & training                                17,812
Bank charges
Total                                               456,950

Adjustments were then made in two ways. The first was to establish the equivalence o f the cost for
drilling70 boreholes by FAS (an increase from 37), while the second was to adjust the costs o fDW of


                                                  - 69 -

providing 70 boreholes (unit cost up from $4500 to $9500). Table 11, therefore, shows that FAS would
have spent $920,178 to provide 70 boreholes, while DW would have spent E944,882.

Table 11. Cost Comparison betweenFAS and NGO (DW)

 Cost Item             FAS absl. Cost             FAS adjust. For         NGO absl. Cost         NGO adjust.
                       37 boreholes               70 boreholes            for 70 wells           For cost of
                                                                                                 borehole
 Salaries                  39,727                      75,159                121,550               256,606
 Operating costs           11,156                      21,106                115,495               243,823
 Proiects                 429.744                     813.029               202.093                426.641
 Goods, vehicles &     I    1,237                I       2,340           I                      I              I
 equipment
 Consultants &              8,544                        8,544                17,812                17,812
 training
 Total                                                 20,178                                      944,882

The analysis presented above shows that FAS would have delivered the same services at a slightly lower
cost, 3%. This comparison makes many assumptions which would have to be observed very closely
since the determination o f each cost items by the respective entities may have very different philosophies.
NGOsat times have particular missionstatements whose activities at times may not necessarily be
consistent with the missiono f FAS. Secondly the issue o f quality was not dealt with inthis analysis.
Informationwas given to the analysis that DW often utilizes locally available materials which are
deemed to be appropriate. This would therefore pause the question o f durability and needs for frequent
maintenance. Finally the presentation o f data by FAS combines boreholes and latrines which would give
different cost levels.

More time would be required to reach a conclusive position on the cost comparison. Several NGOs
would have to be reviewedand information collected
more accurately, if need be.

Summary of benefits and costs:
NIA

Main Assumptions:
NIA

Cost-effectiveness indicators:
NIA
.....................
I/ReturntoInvestmentinEducation:GlobalUpdate,WorldDevelopment22(9):1325-43.
2/Malawi Social Action Fund(MASAF), World Bank Project Appraisal Document, September 1998
31Source: INELJNICEF, InquCrito de Indicadores Multiplos (MICS 2), Luanda,November 2002.
4/ INEcarried out aHouseholdLivingConditions survey (1994-1995) which produced anoverall Gini coefficient of
0.45 as comparedto another survey, Household Budget Survey, conducted in 2000-2001 which estimatedthe Gini
coefficient to be 0.51.




                                                    - 70 -

                                  Annex 5: Financial Summary
                         ANGOLA: Third Social Action Fund (FAS Ill)
                                         Years Ending



                         I Year1     I year2    I Year3    I  Year4    I Year5  I Year6   IYear7  1
Total Financing Required
 Project Costs
  Investment Costs            16.4        23.4        27.0        29.2       0.0       0.0    0.0
 Recurrent Costs               4.1          5.8        6.8         7.3       0.0       0.0    0.0
Total Project Costs           20.5        29.2        33.8        36.5       0.0       0.0    0.0
Total Financing               20.5        29.2        33.8        36.5       0.0       0.0    0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                    8.2        11.7        13.5        14.6       0.0      0.0     0.0
   Government                   1.o         1.5        1.7         1.8       0.0      0.0     0.0
       Central                 0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0
       Provincial              0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0
   Co-financiers                8.2       11.7        13.5         14.6      0.0       0.0    0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries         3.1         4.4        5.1         5.5       0.0       0.0    0.0
Other                           0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0
 Total Project Financing      20.5        29.3        33.8        36.5       0.0       0.0    0.0




            Source               Scenario I       Percent        Scenario I1     Percent
                               Millions US$                     Millions US$
IDA                               55.0           78.5              55.0          45.8
EC Trust Fund                                                      50.0          41.6
BilateraYPrivate Sector           6.75            9.7              6.75           5.7
GOA                               8.25            11.8             8.25           6.9
Total                             70.0           100.0            120.0         100.0

Table 3: Indicative Breakdown of the EC and IDA Contributions b y Component




                                               -71-

Table 4: IndicativeAllocationof ProgramCosts by Cost Category andFundingSources (US$l,OOO)

    Cost Categories                                            I Bilateral/ IGovernment
                         Program   I           I   European
                             -        IDA Commission             Private
                                                      TF          Sector
                              2        1.oo                                    1.oo
                              3    I  2.00     I    0.5        I  0.35      I 0.15          I
                             88       39.15        38.0           4.50        6.35
14 Training                   4       2.00          1.o           0.90        0.10
5 Consultant's Services       4        1.50         2.0           0.50

                             13        6.60         6.0                       0.40
                              6       2.75          2.5           0.50        0.25
LTotaZ                      120       55.00        50.0           6.75        8.25

Table 5: PreliminaryFAS BudgetProjections(Scenario I:US$70 million)




                                             - 72 -

Table 6: PreliminaryFASBudget Projections (Scenario 11: US$120 million)
I                Set 03-       Set 04-        Set 05-        Set 06-       Set 06-        TOTAL
                 Ago 04        Ago 05         Ago 06         Ago 07        M a r 07

                million)                                                   million)

                  2.0    I      2.5     I      2.5      I     2.25    I      .25      1     9.5
IK.SUL            2.0           2.5            2.5            2.25           .25            9.5
INAMIBE           2.0           2.5            2.5            2.25           .25            9.5
IHUILA



                  1.85          2.5            2.5            2.25           .25            9.35
                   .90          1.5            2.0            1.75           .25            6.4
IBIE               .90     11I  1.5       11I  2.0       1II  1.75      11I  .25      I1I   6.4




                                               - 73 -

                             Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                          ANGOLA: Third Social Action Fund (FAS 111)

Procurement

Introduction

FAS I11Project i s the continuation o f two previous IDA financed projects and will count on experienced
procurement staff familiar with Bank procedures and documentation. This implies better planning
capacity and faster inception o f implementation activities. As a consequence, higher monetary thresholds
than those used inprevious FAS Iand I1project have been proposed for simpler procurement methods,
such as shopping, thus reducing the number o f procurement actions subject to prior review. Insum, better
performance and transparency i s expected under the new Program.

InstitutionalSetup

FAS i s an autonomous institution created by the GOA under the umbrella o f the Ministry o f Planningto
support Government initiatives to reduce poverty. Under FAS 111, the institution will retain its core
institutional and implementation arrangements such as : (i)   a central management unit staffed by
experienced national procurement officers which will carry out major procurement activities and
supervision, and (ii) nine (9)provincial offices which will also execute and monitor procurement at the
local level. Incase o f expansion o f FAS activities to additional provinces through antenna offices, NGOs
or new provincial offices, a procurement capacity assessment would be conducted, and appropriate
procurement capacity developed andor new staff hired. A National Coordination Committee (and their
related committees at provincial level) will monitor implementation activities and ensure transparency
and efficiency to the process. Functions and responsibilities o f the national coordination unit,provincial
offices and committes are described in detail inthe Operational Manual.

Procurement Authority

Basedon prior experience under FAS 11, the following procurement authority has been agreed for each
implementation level:

     (i)Provincial FAS offices will have the authority to approve subprojects up to US$lOO,OOO
     equivalent.

     (ii) NationalCoordinationUnit(NCU) willapprovesubprojectsthatreceiveFASfinancingfrom
         the
    US$lOO,OOO up to US$200,000 equivalent, and all non-subprojects activities related to the
    procurement o f goods and services. Inaddition NCU, assisted by TA ifnecessary, will be responsible
     for the preparation and issue o f bid documents and correspondence with the Bank

     (iii) FASNationalCoordinationCommitteewillapprovesubprojectsthatreceiveFASfinancing
          the
     above US$200,000 equivalent.

Monetary thresholds may be modified during project implementation, based on the efficiency (or lack
thereof) and transparency o f the operations.




                                                    - 74 -

Manualof ProcurementProcedures

Goods and services to be procuredunder the FAS I11Project will be based on the demand o f community
groups under the sub-projects and presented to the FAS through implementing partners such as NGOs,
local contractors and government line ministries on an ad hoc basis. A well established Operational
Manual ,based on the experience acquired under FAS Iand FAS I1projects, which will define indetail
the procedures for reviewing and approving contracts for subprojects, has been prepared by the
Borrower. The Manual, which incorporates Bank Guidelinesfor Simplified Procurement and
Disbursementfor Community-Based Investments will be reviewed and approvedby IDA before credit
effectiveness. Inaddition, the Operational Manual will include procurement methods consistent with the
Bank's Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999) for goods and works, and Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers (January 1997; Revised September
1997; Addendum Effective January 1, 1999) for consultant services.

ProcurementPlanning

Planning o f major procurement activities will be a priority acitivity under the project and a Procurement
Plan including major contracts for goods and consultancy services will be prepared well ahead o f project
implementation. This plan will be used to monitor implementation under the project during supervision
missions and as part o f the annual procurement audit. A General Procurement Notice describing major
goods and services contracts under FAS I11will be published inthe Development Business Forum
immediately after negotiations, and updated annually. Specific Procurement Notices for goods and
requests for Expression o f Interest for consultant services will be issued inaccordance with the needs o f
the project and Bank procurement guidelines.

Procurementof Goods

Whenever possible, goods will be packaged inlarger contracts and procured through competitive
methods. Individual contracts valued at US$lOO,OOO equivalent or above will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB). Smaller individual contract estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent will be purchased on the basis of national competitive bidding (NCB)
procedures. Standard NCB documents approved for use by IDA during FAS I1will be applied for this
purpose. Contracts for goods valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent (up to an aggregate amount o f
US$ 2.5 million equivalent) may be procured usinginternational or national shoppingprocedures based
on written solicitation issued to at least three qualified suppliers. Direct purchasing and commercial
practices may be used under "community participation" procurement method, whenever purchases are
small (less than US$5,000) and competition i s not readily available.

Procurementof SmallWorks


Works estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 3.5 o f the Guidelines on the basis o f quotations obtained
from three (3) qualified domestic contractors inresponse to a written invitation. The invitation shall
include a detailed description o f the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a
basic form o f agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The
 award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.


                                                     - 75 -

Procurementof Sub-projects

Basedon experience under FAS Iand 11, the majority o f subproject funds are used for relatively
small-scale works activities. Procurement o f sub-proj ects will be limited to small construction and
rehabilitation works mostly under the Component I(Community Development component) o f the project.
They include: (i)  small works for the rehabilitation o f basic infrastructures for health, education, water
and sanitation; (ii) buildingo f community level and municipalinfrastructure and (iii)     environmental
upgrading such as waste management and re-forestation. Sub-projects with a value above $100,000 will
be awarded through N C B and those with a value above US$200,000 will be awarded usingI C B
procedures. Sub-projects below US$lOO,OOO will be awardedfollowing simpliJiedprocurement
procedures such as Request for Quotations awarded as lump-sum, fixedprice contracts awarded on the
basis o f quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified contractors inresponse to a written
invitation, based on basic technical specifications (up to an aggregate amount of US$20million). Very
small rehabilitation works o f a value of less than US$20,000 may be awarded under "community
participation" methods, which may include "direct contracting" whenever competition will not be
readily available as described inthe Operations Manual. Standard designs, technical specifications, and
bills o fquantities that have been developedincollaboration with the relevant line ministries andpublic
authorities will be usedas much as possible to facilitate these community participation procurement
arrangements.

ConsultingServices

Most o f the consulting services to be carried out by consultant firms will be made through Quality- and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), inaccordance with Section 11,para. 2.1-2.28 o f the Guidelines.
Assignments such as training and supervision contracts below the threshold o f US$200,000 for which
budget estimates may be precisely defined may be awarded following the "selection under aJixed
budget"pr0cedures as for section 3.5 o f Bank Consulting Guidelines. Inthe case o f smaller contracts
below the threshold o f US$100,000 where the need for preparing and evaluating competitive proposals is
notjustified, selection may be done through Consultants' Qualijkations (CQ) methodas for section 3.7
o f Bank Consultants Guidelines. This selection method will include most o f the FAS I11staff capacity
buildingcontracts and subproject evaluations. Single-source contractingmay be used on exceptional
basis, with IDA'Sprior agreement for contracts below US$50,000 consistent with the situations described
under sections 3.83.1 1o f Bank Consultants Guidelines. Shortlists for contracts estimated to cost under
US$50,000 may be comprised entirely o f national consultants if a sufficient number (at least three) o f
qualified candidates are available at competitive costs. Contracts for individuals will be awarded in
accordance with the procedures described under part V o f the Consultants Guidelines.

Prior Review Thresholds

IDA prior review will be required for all subproiect contracts estimated to cost the equivalent o f
US$200,000 or more, works and goods contracts estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO or
more, and small works estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$50,000 or more. Service contracts valued
at more than the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO for firms, and the equivalent o f US$50,000 for individuals
will also require IDAprior review. IDA will also review all terms o freference for service contracts
regardless o f value, all single source contracting o f consultants, all amendments to contracts raising the
value above the prior review thresholds, and any assignment reasonably deemed critical by IDA. Below
these thresholds, IDA will carry out an ex-post review on a sample o f national and provincial contracts
issued during its semi-annual supervision missions. Table B below indicates these thresholds by
expenditure category under the FAS I11Project.


                                                     - 76 -

Procurement CapacityAssessment

The project i s a continuation o f the previous FAS I1and the capacity o f the implementing agency has
been assessed as "adequate" since procurement staff has been confirmed, and actually will be increased
at provincial level. Inthe new provinces FAS will start at a lower authority threshold than the present
project, which will be increased to the level o f the existing FAS I11provinces threshold, once their
capacity will be established. FAS management at the center will assist inthis process by carrying out a
procurement capacity assessment at the provincial and municipal levels before establishing a new office
and by communicating to the Bank the results o f the procurment capacity assessment. The first FAS I11
procurement capacity assessment at central, provincial and municipal levels will be carried out within
three months o f Boardpresentation.

Procurement RiskAssessment.

Procurement experience to date under FAS Iand I1has been average. While there have been some errors
made in the application o f operational and procurement procedures, no case o f mis-procurement has been
registered under previous projects. For this reason, and despite the overall risky nature o f the country and
the highly decentralized nature o f FAS implementation, the procurement risk environment for FAS I11i s
considered average. Any new central and provincial level procurement staff will undergo procurement
training programs.

Procurement Audits

Given the large number o f relatively small contracts that will not require World Bank prior review, the
need for more systematic ex-post review i s high. Inaddition to semi-annual supervision missions, the
Government has agreed to carry out annual procurement audits o f the project. These audits will be
carried out under terms and conditions and by independent consultants whose qualifications are
acceptable to IDA. The procurement audits will be conductedto benefit FAS and the Bank, and will
include an action plan to improve performance which will be submitted to the Bank and discussed
jointly.




                                                      - 77 -

  Procurement methods(TableA)


                      Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                     (US$ million equivalent)




(SMALL)                             (0.00)            (0.00)      (1.OO)     (0.00)    (1.OO)
2. Goods                             1.10              1.69        0.21       0.00      3.00
I                            I      (0.00')      I    (1.00)   I  (0.00)   I (0.00)  I (1.00)   I
3. Services                          0.00              0.00        4.00       0.00      4.00
 (Training)                         (0.00)            (0.00)      (2.00)     (0.00)    (2.00)
4. Consultant Services               0.00              2.00        2.00       0.00      4.00
                                    (0.00)            (2.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)    (2.00)
 5. Sub-projects                     0.00             75.20        18.80               94.00
                                    (0.00)            (34.00)      (8.50)    (0.00)    (42.50)
 6. Operating Costs                  0.00              0.00        12.00      0.00      12.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)       (6.50)    (0.00)    (6.50)
    Total                            1.10              78.89       40.01      0.00     120.00
                                    (0.00)            (37.00)     (18.00)    (0.00)    (55.00)




                                               - 78 -

                       Table AI : Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                          (US$ million equivalent)




A. Firms                     5.00      0.00       0.00     0.00        0.50     0.10       0.00      5.60
                            (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
B. Individuals               1.80      0.20       0.00     0.00        0.20     0.20       0.00      2.40
                            (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)
                    Total I  6.80      0.20       0.00     0.00        0.70     0.30       0.00       8.00
                            (0.00) I   (0.00) I  (0.00)  I (0.00)   1 (0.00)  I (0.00) I  (0.00)  I  (0.00) I
I\Including contingencies

          Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                 QBS = Quality-based Selection
                 SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                 LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                 CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                 Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
                 Practices, etc.
                 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                 Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.




                                                    - 79 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)

                  Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'




1.Works

                                                                                                   >100,000




                                                                                                <100,000 (firms)
                                                                                            <50,000 (individuals)

5. Subprojects                         <100,000                       Other
                                       >100,000                        NCB
                                        >200,000                       ICB
6. Operating Costs

                 Total value of contracts subject to prior review:      US$3,000,000
                          Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:          Average
    Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: One every 12months
                                                                         (includes special procurement supervision
                                                                         for post-review/audits)


"Thresholds generally differ by country andproject. Consult "Assessmentof Agency's Capacity to Implement
 Procurement" and contact the Regional ProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                     - 80 -

              Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                             ANGOLA: Third Social Action Fund (FAS 111)

FinancialManagement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

Country issues: A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) will be conducted for Angola
inFY04. However, the public sector financial management systems inAngola is knownto be very weak
and requires substantial strengthening. Therefore a "ring-fenced" financial management strategy, with
dedicated bank accounts, will be maintained for this Project.

Strengths and Weaknesses: The main strengtho f this project is that FAS staff has managed the two
previous Bank projects and i s familiar with the World Bank's procedures. However the major
weaknesses identified by the financial management assessment are:
---lack o f both government and FAS proper mechanisms o f internal control,
   a computerized accounting system providing reliable informationbut not producing FMRs,
   an increasing risk due to the geographical spread o f Project's activities and management o f funds b y
   municipalities for capacity developments activities and administrative budget.

ImplementingEntity

The National Coordination Unit will still operate as central management o f FAS 111.Inaddition to the 9
provinces currently operating, FAS will open new offices that will be managed either by FAS staff or
through antenna organizations (NGO/firms that will function as a provincial FAS office). Eligible
municipalities will also be involvedby receiving from FAS and directly managing operating costs and
administrative "grants". This organization structure will implicate managing a substantial number o f
bank accounts because each entity will deal with 2 separate bank accounts for IDA funds (operational
account and administrative account).

FundsFlow

N C U and the provincial offices will open and maintain separate accounts (inU S dollars) in commercial
Banks. N e w bank accounts, managed independently, will be opened for the 9 existing provinces and for
new province offices. The provinces will advance funds to eligible municipalities for administrative
expenses and financing sub-projects. The flow o f funds from the provinces to the municipalities i s an
innovation that has been reviewed through a financial management assessment o f a sample o f 2
municipalities. Because o f the absence o f a proper financial management system, it has been
recommended to put inplace at FAS central level stronger mechanisms to assess properly the eligibility
o f municipalities and to control ex-post the use o f funds.

Staffing and Training

The key staff positions identifiedto ensure a sound financial management system and control
environment are:
-    a financial controller whose main duties will be to coordinate, control and report on the receipt and
     disbursement o f funds and supervise the day to day management o f the accounting function for all
-    the components o f FAS 111,
     a financial auditor to ensure that the funds have been utilized inthe intendedpurposes and according
     to the defined procedures, participate inthe assessment o f the eligibility o f the municipalities and



                                                     -81 -

-   audit sub-project,
    a technical auditorlinspector to ensure ex post the quality o f works and ensure the consistence
    between physical and financial implementation o f the Project.

The financial controller and the financial internal auditor need to be qualifiedaccountants with relevant
experience inthe development area.

TrainingPlan

The newly recruited staff (auditors and financial controller) and the accountants will be trained as
appropriate, inthe following areas: (a) Financial Management, including internal controls, information
systems and computer applications; and (b) Procedures relating to use o f funds e.g. IDA (Special
Account, SOEs, Procurement, FMR etc.) and Government regulations. On-the-job coaching will be
providedby FAS to the accountants o f new province offices and municipalities. Training on the new
financial management system must be completed before Project effectiveness

Accounting System, Accounting Policiesand Procedures
The projects accounts will continue to be on a modified cash-basis to ensure that revenues are recorded
when received. Inaddition to the monthly reconciliation and quarterly monitoring reports, the Project
will produce annual Project Financial Statements for analytical and audit purposes. These Financial
Statements will be composed o f

1.       A Consolidated Statement o f Sources and Uses o f Funds(showing IDA and Counterpart Funds
         as well as funds providedby donors);
2.       A Statement reconciling the balances on all Bank Accounts to the bank balances on the
         Statement o f Sources and Uses o f Funds;
3,       SOEWithdrawal Schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to disbursements
         by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
4.       Notes on significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management when
         preparing the accounts; and on any supplementary informationor explanations that may be
         deemed appropriate by management to enhance the presentation o f a "true and fair view."

InformationSystem

A computerizedaccounting system exists andhas beenimplemented at FAS central andprovincial levels.
This financial management software is considered capable o frecording correctly all transactions and
balances, supporting the preparation o f regular and reliable financial statements. However, the system
doesn't provide an FMRbased reporting. Therefore, the software should be reviewed to ensure that it's
acceptable for the Bank. The cost vs. benefits o f changing software should be assessed by an F M S before
effectiveness. Since the software can provide reliable informationand i s already mastered by FAS staff,
the FMS might consider, ifrelevant, to keep the same software and issue FMRs based on spreadsheets, or
recommend to adopt a new software providing FMRs acceptable for the Bank. Indeed implementing a
new software may add an additional risk to financial management system. It's worth noting that a new
software will be the third one for the project (FAS1 used CUBIC and FAS2 i s runningEURO-EAS since
 1999).

Reportingand Monitoring

The following quarterly FMRs will be producedby each province and consolidatedby the PCU:



                                                    - 82 -

          Sources and Uses o f Funds by Project Category
         Uses o f Fundsby Project Component
          Physical Output Monitoring Report
          Procurement Monitoring Reports

The formats will be defined and each entity o f the Project must be capable o f producing FMRs by
effectiveness. In addition, the PCU must demonstrate its capacity to produce the consolidated reporting
by credit effectiveness (specially taking into account new provinces and municipalities).

Project monitoring will take the following forms:
          Management oversight by the FAS central o f other entities;
          Oversight by the National Board based on internal audit reports;
          Annual external audit o f the Project finances.

2. Audit Arrangements

Internal Audit

The internal audit function doesn't exist in FAS. Taking into account the overall risk environment there
i s a need to put inplace strong supervision and quality assurance at all levels involved inthe Project.

The day-to-day supervision o f accounting functions will be assured by a financial controller based at the
Central level but with responsibilities in all FAS entities. The Financial Controller will be responsible for
direct operational supervision o f the special account, and the accountant will be responsible for
consolidated financial reporting.

ExternalAudit

Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed on approved terms o f
reference. The external audit will cover all World Bank funds and Counterpart funds. The IDA Credit
Agreement will require the submission o f audited financial statements (consolidated) to the Bank within
six months after the year-end. The formats to be adopted will be documented inthe Financial Procedures
Manual.

Besides expressing a primary opinion on the audited financial statements incompliance with
International Auditing Standards, the auditor will be required to include a separate paragraph
commenting on the accuracy and propriety o f expenditures withdrawn under SOE procedures and the
extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for loan disbursements. Regarding the Special
Accounts, the auditor will also be expected to form an opinion as to the degree o f compliance with World
Bank procedures, and balances at the year-end.

 Inaddition to the audit report, the auditor will be requiredto prepare a separate ManagementLetter
 giving observations and comments, and providingrecommendations for improvements o f accounting
 records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants inthe IDA Agreement.

 3. Disbursement Arrangements
 It is estimated that the project would be implemented over a four-year period, starting on September 1,
 2003. The completion date o f the Project i s set for December 31, 2007 and the closing date would be
 June 30, 2008, to allow six months to request and process disbursements for expenditures incurred prior
 to the completion date. The annual estimated disbursements are indicated inthe Project Financing Data


                                                      - a3 -

table, on the first page o f the Program Appraisal Document. The N C U will be responsible for ensuring
that financial management and reporting procedures for the project meet Government and World Bank
standards. A Financial Management Action Plan has been developed to set forth necessary actions for
systems development for sound financial management, and will be incorporated inthe Operational
Manual.

At this stage FAS I11is not ready for disbursements based on Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR).
Therefore, inthe short-term, the existing disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank
Disbursement Handbook will be followed. Table C below sets out the categories o f expenditures to be
financed by the Credit, the allocation o f the amounts o f the Credit to each category, and the percentage o f
expenditures to be financed by IDA under each Category.

DisbursementArrangements. Given the decentralized nature o f FAS implementation, there is an equal
need to decentralize disbursement procedures and financial management responsibilities to improve
accountability. Therefore, provincial offices will open and maintain separate FAS I11accounts in
commercial banks (inU S dollars), managed independently, for the purposes o f receiving up to three
months advances o f approved planned activities, related to subproject expenses and operating costs.
Nine new bank accounts will be open at the provincial level. Allocations to the existing provincial offices
have been agreed upon with IDA at: US$250,000 for Benguela, Cabinda, Huila, Kunene, Luanda,
Namibe, Bengo, Huambo and Kwanza Sul. Initial allocations for the new provincial offices have been
agreed at: US$125,000. The management o f the funds will be guided by procedures detailed inthe
Project Operational Manual, adopted by the borrower as a Condition for Effectiveness.

Fundswill be advanced to the provincial offices based on approved quarterly plans. FAS I11provincial
accounts will be replenished at least on a monthly basis by the National Coordination Unit inLuanda
upon submission by the provincial offices o f replenishment requests accompanied by appropriate
supporting documents. Replenishment application and documentation requirements for the provincial
offices would follow a simplifiedSOE procedure, based on the defined subproject and operating costs
thresholds, that provides a detailing o f expenses by category, bank statement and reconciliation, copies o f
contracts and all other original invoices or evidence o f expenditures. The submission o f the first Annual
Work Plan and Budget for FAS 111, including the commitments for each province to carry out the planned
subprojects, i s a Condition for Effectiveness o f the Project.

FAS ProvincialOffices will advance funds to eligible municipalities participating inthe Municipal
Development component based on work-plans and budgets approved by Consultative Fora and Provincial
administrations. These funds will be used towards administrative expenses and towards implementation
o f community sub-projects. Funds will be replenishedbased on statement o f expenditures submitted to
FAS Provincial Offices. The maximum amount o f administrative grant per year per municipality will be
US$40,000 and maximum grant in support o f a sub-project portfolio will be US$250,00 inthe first
municipal sub-project cycle and US$300,000 thereafter. The sub-project grants will be disbursed in
tranches based on ability to account for the previous tranches. This process i s detailed inthe Operational
Manual. The deposits will be made into dedicated local currency Bank accounts that each eligible
municipality will open. The Municipal Administrations will account to FAS Provincial Offices using
agreed accounting and reporting procedures. MASwill specifically provide quarterly financial reports to
FAS and the Consultative Forum. The FAS provincial office will then account to FAS National
Coordination Unit.

Subprojects. Disbursement arrangements for subprojects are detailed inthe Operational Manual.
Advance payments o f up to 20 percent o f the total project costs will be permitted without bank guarantee



                                                     - 84 -

inthe case o f self-help and civil works contracts below US$70,000. All subsequent disbursements will
be made based on physical evidence o f the satisfactory progress or completion o f works certified by
provincial office technical staff, and on the submission o f appropriate accounting reports for previously
disbursed funds. The physical evidence o f the satisfactory progress with sub-project implementation will
inadditionbe confirmed bythe Provincial Boards ofOverseers and through the technical and financial
audits carried out regularly by internal auditors as part o f the M&E efforts, and as part o f the Mid-Term
Review.

ProjectAccounts. Separate FAS I11Project Accounts will be opened at central and provincial levels to
finance the Government's contribution to the Project. Duringnegotiations, agreement was reached
regarding the arrangements for establishing and operating these FAS I11Project Accounts. An initial
deposit o f an amount inKZ equivalent to US$500,000 will be made by the Government for this purpose
and subsequent quarterly replenishments made in such amounts will return the FAS IIIProject Account
to the level o f the initial deposit.

FinancialManagement. The details for financial management, accounting, financial reporting and
audit arrangements are set out inAnnex 12.

Action Plan

The overall conclusion i s that the current financial management arrangements do not satisfy the
requirements o f the new project notably because o f an overall weak control environment, the
geographical spread o f the project and the autonomy given to municipalities to manage the operational
and administrative funds. Inorder to establish an acceptable control environment and to mitigate
financial management risks the following measures should be taken by the due dates as indicated inthe
table below.

                                 Action                                           DueDate           Conditionalitv
   1      Borrower has implemented a financial management system               Effectiveness       Condition o f
          acceptable by the Bank and i s producing reliable and timely                             Effectiveness
          informationincluding FMRs. FAS staff has been adequately
          trained on the Bank's financial management procedures and on
          the FAS financial management system
   2      FAS has taken actions, acceptable to the Bank, on findings from Effectiveness            Condition o f
          the external auditors' management letter.                                                Effectiveness
   3      Borrower has formally adopted fully documented project -             Effectiveness       Condition o f
          specific Financial Management Procedural Manuals, which will                             Effectiveness
          cover financial policies and procedures, accounting and internal
          control system, financial reporting, flow o f funds and auditing
          arrangements at central, provincial and municipality levels
  4       Borrower has appointed external auditors under TOR and with          Effectiveness       Condition o f
          the qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA for the                            Effectiveness
          auditing o f the Project (Manuals will also include the TOR o f
          financial management staff and auditors)
   5      Borrower has appointed a qualified accountant as financial            Effectiveness      Condition o f
          controller (reporting to Project Manager) and both financial and                         Effectiveness
          technical internal auditors (reporting to National Board o f
          Overseers)




                                                    - a5 -

SupervisionPlan
Financial management supervision will be carried out regularly by the project FMS at least once a year.
Inaddition, the project would be submittedto regular SOE reviews as requiredby the World Bank.

The FMS will also:
        Conduct an FM supervision before effectivenesddisbursement;
        Review the financial component o f the quarterly FMRs as soon as they are submitted to the
        World Bank; and,
        Review the annual Audit reports and Management letters from the external auditors and
        follow-up on material accountability issues by engaging with the TTL, Client, and/or Auditors.

Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)

                                Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds


 1. Works                                              1.oo                               85%
2. Goods                                              2.00               100% o f foreign expenditures and 85%
                                                                                 o f local expenditures
3, Sub-projects                                       39.15                              100%
4. Training                                            2.00                              100%
 5. Consultant Services                                1.50                                85%
 6. Operating Costs                                    6.60                                85%
 7. Unallocated                                        2.75

 Total Project Costs with Bank Financing              55.00

 Total                                                55.00


 Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Statement of Expenses. Disbursementwould be made on the basis o f Statement o f Expenditures
(SOEs) for contracts with an individual value less than those requiring IDA'Sprior review. The
Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis o f statements o f
expenditure for expenditures for: (i)goods and works under contracts costing less than US$lOO,OOO
equivalent each; (ii) Subprojects under contracts costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each; (iii)
services under contracts costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent each for consulting firms and less than
US$50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; and (iv) operating costs and training, all under
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Therefore, all
relevant documentation for expenditures o f contracts with an estimated value o f more than: (a)
US$lOO,OOO each for small works and goods, from the FAS provincial offices to the FAS N C U in
Luanda and from the FAS N C U inLuanda to IDA; (b) US$200,000 equivalent each for sub-projects; (c)
US$lOO,OOO for consultants' services and training providedby firms; (d) US$50,000 for individual
consultants; and (e) all operating costs which may be claimed against SOEs, will be retainedby the FAS
National Coordination Unit (Administrative Section) and be made available for review when requested
by the IDA supervision mission and project auditors. All applications for: (a) direct payments, and (b)
issuance o f special commitments inguarantee o f letters o f credit for payments equal to or inexcess o f



                                                   - 86 -

these thresholds will be submitted directly to IDA with appropriate documentation (copy o f contract,
invoice, IDA n o objection to contract, etc.).

 Special account:
Special Account: A FAS I11Special Account (SA) inUS dollars will be opened ina commercial bank
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA for the purposes o f ensuring timely provision o f funds for
Project implementation. The authorized allocation for the SA will be US$5.5 million, which i s a level
sufficient to cover at least four months o f estimated expenditures eligible for financing by IDA. The
N C U will be responsible for overseeing the SA and submitting periodic replenishment applications with
appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. It i s expected that such replenishments applications
will be prepared and submitted at least monthly.




                                                     - 87 -

                              Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                          ANGOLA: Third Social Action Fund (FAS Ill)




1 Appraisal mission departure                 I       0412112003              I        05/21/2003     I
  Negotiations                                        05/20/2003                       05/23/2003
  Planned Date of Effectiveness                       0910112003

Prepared by:
FAS (Social Action Fund)


Preparation assistance:


Bank staff who worked on the project ncluded:
          Name                                        Speciality
  WimAlberts                           Senior Social Protection SpecialistITask Team Leader, AFTHl
  Stefania B.Abakerli Baptista        Young Professional, TUDUR
  Clara Brillembourg                   Junior Professional Associate, AFTHD
  Sabine Cornelius                     Senior Economist, Social Protection, AFTHl
  Lori Geurts                          ProgramAssistant, AFTHl
  Jose Janeiro                         Senior Finance Officer, LOAG2
  Soukenya Kane                        Senior Financial Management Specialist, AFTFM
  Noel Kulemeka                        Senior Economist, AFTHl
  IsabellaMicali-Drossos               Senior Counsel, LEGLA
  Mirey Ovadiya                        Operations Officer, AFC03
  Dan Owen                             Senior Social Development Specialist, SDV
  Francesco Sarno                      Procurement Consultant, AFTQK
  Iraj Talai                           Lead Financial Management Specialist, AFTFM
  Arvil Van Adams                      Lead Social Protection Specialist, AFTHD




                                                - 88 -

                             Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                           ANGOLA: Third Social Action Fund (FAS 111)


A. Project Implementation Plan
To be provided before Effectivness of the Project.

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Beneficairy Assessment, June 2002
Environmental Assessment, May 2003.
FinancialManagement Assessment, May 2003.
InstitutionalCapacity Assessment, April 2003



C. Other


*Including electronic files




                                                  - 89 -

                                         Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                        ANGOLA: Third SocialAction Fund (FAS 111)
                                                                 26-Jun-2003
                                                                                                                       Difference betweenexpected
                                                                                                                                and actual
                                                                      Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                         iBRD         IDA                      Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO78288     2003 Emergency Demobilization & Reintegration            0.00       0.00                       0.00   32.71         0.00      0.00
PO72205     2003 Economic Management Technical Assistance            0.00       16.60                      0.00   17.50         0.00      0.00

PO56393     2000 SECOND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT (FAS II)               0.00      33.00                       0.00     0.78      -22.63      -1.52

                                                          Total:    0.00       49.60                       0.00    50.99      -22.63      -1.52




                                                                      - 90 -

                                           ANGOLA
                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                   Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                         May 30 2003
                                                  -
                                       InMillions US Dollars

                                                        Committed                      Disbursed
                                                      IFC                            IFC
FY Approval    Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998           AEF Flecol                       0.61     0.00     0.00    0.00  0.61   0.00    0.00  0.00
                      Total Portfolio:          0.61     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.61  0.00    0.00  0.00



                                                   ApprovalsPendingCommitment
FY Approval    Company                            Loan      Equity    Quasi    Partic
2003           EBA                                 0.00      0.00      0.70    0.00

               Total PendingCommitment:            0.00      0.00      0.70     0.00




                                               -91 -

                                                      Annex IO: Country at a Glance
                                       ANGOLA: Third Social Action Fund (FAS 111)
                                                                                      Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                                 Saharan        Low-
                                                                    Angola           Africa    Income          1  Developmentdiamond*
2001
Population,mid-year(millions)                                          13.5            674       2,511                           Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                      500            470         430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                         6.7           317       1,069         i                        -

Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                                           2.9            2.5         1.9
Labor force (%)                                                          3.0            2.6         2.3                                                    Gross
                                                                                                                                                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                                                                   r
                                                                                                                  capita                                enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation (% of totalpopulation)                                   35              32         31         I
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                          47              47         59                                  -
Infant mortality(per 1,000 livebirths)                                  128              91         76         I
Child malnutrition (?Aof children under51                                41                                            Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)                      38              55         76
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 15+)                                                        37         37
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                      91              78         96         1         -Angola
    Male                                                                 99              85        103                             Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                               83              72          88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                           1981        1991           2000        2001            Economicratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                                     10.2             8.9         9.5
Gross domestic investmentiGDP                                          15.3           35.4         34.0
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                                       35.6           92.3         74.5                               Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                                             19.5            83.1        46.3
Gross national savingslGDP                                             10.3           47.1         33.1

Currentaccount balancelGDP                                              -5.4           10.0        -2.0
InterestpaymentslGDP                                                     0.8            3.1         2.3
Total debtlGDP                                                         87.5           114.5        97.6
Total debt servicelexports                                               9.1           14.3        14.3
Presentvalue of debtiGDP                                                              108.9                     I                       1
Presentvalue of debtiexports                                                          114.7
                                                                                                                                   Indebtedness
                                           1981-91 1991-01             2000           2001     2001-05
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                             3.6           3.1        3.0            3.2        11.7         I         -Angola
GDP oer caDita                                  0.7          -0.3       -2.8            0.1         9.3                             Low-incomegroup
Exportsof goods and services                    2.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                           1981        1991           2000         2001           Growth of investmentand GDP (%)
PA of GDP)                                                                                                       ~




Agriculture                                                            28.8             5.8         8.0             T
                                                                                                                 ~40

Industry                                                               40.0            72.8        66.8           20-
   Manufacturing                                                         7.5            3.0         3.8
Services                                                               31.2            21.4        25.3          -zc-
                                                                                                                l o
Privateconsumption                                                     26.2
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                           54.3
Importsof goods and services                                           31.5            64.6        62.2                       -GDI              ' O ' G D P


                                                        1981-91 1991-01               2000         2001        1
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                            Growth of exportsand Imports(%)

Agriculture                                                   0.3        2.5             9.3       18.0
Industry                                                      4.2        5.8             3.5        4.1
   Manufacturing                                           -10.5         1.9             8.9        9.8
Services                                                      1.9       -1.5           -0.2         4.4

Privateconsumption                                           -5.6
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                  7.2                                                                                               1

Gross domestic investment                                    -4.5
Importsof goods and services                                 -4.7

Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will be incomplete




                                                                                 - 92 -

PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                           1981   1991     2000    2001   i1
Domesticprices                                                              l Inflation (Oh)
(% change)                                                                 ~6.000T                                              I
Consumer prices                                   85.3    325.0   152.6
Implicit GDP deflator                             120.8   408.0   127.7        000


Government finance                                                           2 000

(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                    22.0    51.7    41.1    l     o
                                                                                         98     97      98      99     00      01
Current budget balance                            -21.4      6.9   10.5     I
Overall surplusldeficit I /                       -26.3     -9.0    -7.5               -GDP       deflator    '-0ICPI


TRADE
                                           1981   1991     2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                            ' Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                               3,449   7,885   6,754                                                          I
   Crude oil                                      3,161   6,951   5,820       o'ooo T
   Diamonds                                         190     738     738       7500 1
   Manufactures                                      56     132     112
Total imports (cif)                               1,347   3,147   3,316
   Food                                              57
   Fuel and energy
   Capital goods                                    269
Export price index (1995=100)                       109      165    143               95    98    97      98    99    00

import price index (1995=100)                        96      78      77                       Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                           114     212     185

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                           1981   1991     2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                                Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                     3,620   8,181   7,057                                                          I
Imports of goods and services                     3,196   5.728   5,880
Resource balance                                    424   2,453    1,169
Net income                                       -1,004   -1,797  -1,609
Net current transfers                                28      229    247
Current account balance                            -552      885   -193
Financing items (net)                               552    -254    -315
Changes in net reserves                               0    -631     508      4 5 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)              321    1,198     732
Conversion rate (DEC, iocal/US$)                6.60E-8     10.0    22.1

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1981   1991     2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                                 Composltlon of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              8,887   10,146   9,248
     IBRD                                             0        0       0                            8: 254
     IDA                                              0      226     254                  G: 1,212           D: 124

Total debt service                                  336    1,205   1,043
    iBRD                                              0        0       0
    IDA                                               0        0       0
Composition of net resourceflows
    Official grants
    Official creditors                               76       -5    -196
    Prlvate creditors                                58     -492    -626
    Foreign direct investment                       665      878   1,347
    Portfolio equity                                  0        0       0
World Bank program
    Commitments                                      62       33       0                                          E - Bilateral
    Disbursements                                     0       24      12      i: .        0 . Other multilateral  F
                                                                             ~
    Principal repayments                              0        0       0                                           ..Private
                                                                             ~ C IMF                              G Short-term
    Net flows                                         0       24      12
    Interest payments                                 0        0       0
    Net transfers                                     0       24      12

Development tconomics                                                                                                     Y/14/UZ
 I / Excludes change in paymentarrears.



                                                        - 93 -

               Additional Annex 11 Capacity Development Framework (CDF)
                          ANGOLA: Third Social Action Fund (FAS 111)


1.        Introduction

FAS experience inchanneling resources and technical expertise for community-based infrastructure
construction and rehabilitation has been illustrative for Angola. Buildingon the lessons from the
previous two phases, FAS I11will make a more concerted effort to invest inthe three forms o f capital:
physical, human and social at both community and municipal levels. This effort will provide support to a
governance structure that creates inclusive and accountable norms and networks among community
members and local institutions.

Inorder to manage the project'sconceptual and operationalchanges, emphasis willbeplacedon
developing the capacity o f communities, municipal administrastions, local partners and line ministries to
delivery public goods through participatory processes, social inclusion strategies and mutual
accountability mechanisms.

Inthe absence of a comprehensive framework able to capture the project objectives and challenges, a
capacity developmentframework for community drivendevelopmentis offered here. While the
framework is elaborated inconsistency with the Angola project, it also aims to infuse the debate on
capacity development, and to provide an operational contribution available to those working on
community driven development at the World Bank. Consistent with its principles o f collaborative
learning and knowledge sharing, the framework builds on the latest insights and experiences inthe field
o f institutional development from the World Bank, UNDP and UNCHS.

Capacity development was chosen as a wider concept than capacity building. It refers to the process by
which individuals, organizations and institutions enhance their ability to perform functions within the
overall context inwhich they operate to solve problems, define and achieve sustainable objectives.
Capacity is not a passive state `built' from scratch but a continuousprocess which emphasizes improved
mobilization o f existent potentials and `empowerment' o f individuals and organizations within their
societal context (UNDP 1997:3). The ultimate goal o f this `learning'process i s to facilitate institutional
changeinorder to nurture choiceandwide local ownership of the skills, capabilities, processes, assets
and relations that enhance local human, organizational and institutional capacities at community and
local government levels.

The framework is builton the argument that developing capacities for community driven development
requires efforts not only to increase individual technical skills and procedures through training, but
mainly to address the conditions and incentives necessary to mobilize people, informationand resources
around consistent development objectives. Experience has shown that the combination o f inadequate
human and organizational capacities at the community level and unfavorable institutional contexts i s a
key factor constraining many C D D initiatives. Improvedcapacities on the part o f municipal governments
and their partners are o f critical importance inresponding more adequately to the problems and
challenges related to changing contexts, such as the decentralization o f decision making and resource
allocation to local levels, and to financing development initiatives led by communities and their
associated organizations

The framework also brings into debate the need for unpacking organizational and institutional
development specificities within a C D D perspective ifthe impacts o f inclusion, informedparticipation


                                                    - 94 -

and collective action are to be sustained. There i s a widespread assumption that organized communities
have shown great potential role to play inpolicy making to nurture accountability, efficiency, social
inclusion and sustainability. Community organization, however, i s a complex process that still needs to
be reflectedmuch more systematically inpolicy making, poverty reduction operations and analytical
works.

The underlying principle in implementation i s that changes require a systematic understanding o f
processes and relations o f actors operating inthem. From an operational perspective, three levels of
intervention are highlighted: human, organizational and institutional. This means to link the efforts
o f strengthening individual capabilities and skills (human development) more directly to the internal
processes and matters pertaining to the groups or organizations inwhich those individuals operate
(organizational development) while adjusting them to the overall institutional context inwhich
individuals and organizations interact (institutional development).

As part o f its strategic focus, the framework addresses a more concerted effort to target the collective
group o f project beneficiaries and their associated suppliers and partners. Efforts on capacity
development consider four inter-related areas: (a) articulation o f demands at beneficiary level; (b)
enhancement o f the supply side accountability to demands; (c) establishment o f operational networks to
align collective actions and coordinate efforts; and (d) establishment o f dynamic knowledge management
mechanisms and platforms to share information and lessons.

The document i s divided in four parts: a brief introduction on FAS antecedents and the current process o f
decentralization inAngola; the conceptual definition; the framework within the context o f FAS 111; and
the implementation plan and arrangements.

2.        FAS capacity development antecedents and the process of decentralization in Angola

FAS experience in channeling resources and technical expertise for community-based infrastructure
construction and rehabilitation has been illustrative for Angola. Underlying its success i s a continuous
process o f identification, analysis and implementation o f the lessons leaned from its operational
experiences. This process i s guided by a focus on the combination o f building physical capital with
 enhancing human capital within the framework o f the project cycle.

 The evaluations o f FAS Idemonstrated that the project had a good track record inbuildingphysical
 capital, but it engaged less inthe process o f strengthening human and social capital at the community
 level. Hence, a capacity buildingcomponent was established in FAS I1seeking to transfer skills and
 improve the methods for involving community members and implementing partners more actively inthe
project cycle.

 Capacity buildingwas carried out through two main channels: (a) `learning by doing' processes through
 the delivery o f basic social and economic infrastructure at community level, and (b) specific training
 programs designed to strengthen the technical and managerial capabilities o f FAS staff, implementing
 partners and communities members. Emphasis was placed on skills-transferring approaches to
 participatory techniques and methodologies, and on investment in community mobilizationand
 information disseminationregarding the services provided.

 FAS I1efforts to build stakeholders capacity along the project cycle have been instrumental intwo main
 aspects: (a) promoting the organization o f community members for the identification o f their needs and
 priorities, (b) establishingtransparent mechanisms for the delivery o f basic infrastructure to the poorest
 communities.


                                                      - 95 -

Despite those achievements, it has also been identifiedthat the project would have realized even better
results provided that there had been: (a) greater participation o f all community membersand their support
organizations inthe whole project cycle as a way o f enhancing social capital and a sense o f ownership of
the infrastructure at the community level; (b) stronger linkages with other government sectors at local,
provincial and central level in order to maximize efforts and investments inthe long term while
minimizingbureaucracies and costs; and (c) provisiono f the infrastructure within the context o f a
municipal development plan to assure the institutionalization and sustainability o f the processeso f
participatory decision making and resource allocation at the local level.

Insum, FASIand 11have demonstratedthat while investments inhumanresource development have
beencriticalto the achievement o fthe projects' objectives, there is still needfor creating an `enabling'
institutional environment at both the community and local government level as a critical complement to
assure sub-project sustainability beyond the project cycle and greater control over decisions and
resources to community groups and local organizations.

Regardingthe institutional environment, it i s worth mentioning that FAS I11will operate ina clearly
distinct environment from FAS Iand 11.Angola i s currently experiencing a transition from prolonged
conflict to peace. Within this context, special attention has been givento decentralization. As outlined in
the 1992 Constitutional Law andthe 1994LusakaProtocol, decentralizationhas beenaddressedas a
prerequisiteto reinforce national reconciliation, giving provincial andmunicipal authorities
administrative, financial and fiscal autonomy.` Since the ceasefire agreement inApril 2002, it has
become a priority o f the central government. More recently, the Ministry o f Administration and Territory
(MAT) approved the establishment of a consultative forum at provincial andmunicipal levels, which will
incorporate the involvement o f non-governmental and community-based organizations inthe local
decision makingprocesses.MAT has also supported local elections prior to central, which are expected
to run in2005.

This institutional context provides unprecedentedconditions for the devolution of increasedpolitical and
economic autonomy to local governments and traditional authorities. It indeed represents a step forward
regardingthe political conditions inAngola duringthe last twenty seven years, which have reinforced the
concentrationo f power and resources inthe center. The current conditions offer a favourable
environment for FAS I11achieving its ultimate goal o f institutionalizing its community driven initiatives
within locally definedand accountable development initiatives.

It is, however, critical to understand the requiredsteps, mechanisms and timeframe for its consolidation.
Although the central government i s committed to decentralization, most municipal authorities and local
decision makers lack not only the necessarypolitical, legal and financial structure to operate with
autonomy, but also the knowledge, skills and experience to address development issues at community
level inan accountable and effective manner. Despite the fact that FAS partners, such as NGOs and
churches, have shown the ability to work with communities, there are very few with expertise in
institutional development due to their focus on conflict andpost-conflict emergency activities. At
community level, the social networks that people once reliedon have been disruptedby the prolonged
war, resulting inwidespread lack o f self-reliance and mistrust.

It is against this background that a capacity development framework for community driven
development has beenproposed for FAS 111,bringinginto play a wider concept o f capacity building, and
also a guidingstructure for action.




                                                    - 96 -

3.       Capacitydevelopment for community driven development: aworking framework

The capacity development framework for community driven development offered here builds on recent
work done by the World Bank o n capacity buildingfor community driven development, UNDP and
UNCHS efforts in cooperation with other leading training and research institutions on capacity building
within the context o fhuman settlements development. These works bringinto play the latest insights
and useful experiences inthe field o f institutional development, providing a solidbasis for the
elaboration o f a still missingcapacity development framework for community driven development.

Hence, through the elaboration o f this framework we aim to infuse the debate on capacity development,
and to offer a modest operational contribution to those working on community driven development.

Capacity development was chosen as a wider concept than capacity building.It refers to a continuous
process by which individuals, organizations and institutions enhance their ability to perform functions
within the overall context inwhich they operate to achieve objectives. As highlighted by UNDP3,while
capacity buildingrefers to buildingabilities from scratch, capacity development emphasizes improved
`utilization and empowerment' o f individuals and organizations within the overall societal context in
which they interact.

The implications o f capacity development are that: first, i t emphasizes capacity as a continuous learning
process. Second, it evolves from an individual training-based and organization-specific approach into one
that linksboth individual and organizational dimensions o f skills, competences and assets enhancement
within the overall institutional system inwhich they operate. Third, it moves from a supply-driven
perspective to a demand-driven process.

Following the insights o f UNCHS4,capacity development entails a continuous function inwhich any
short-term interventions should strengthen the long-term system if sustainable impacts are to be achieved.
Hence, capacity development focuses not only on training, but mainly on nurturinglocal ownership o f
development processes. From a C D D perspective, this may include the support o f people's active
participation indecisions that affect them; the establishment o f norms and networks among community
members and local institutions to enable collective action; the improvement o f governance, institutions
and policies to better respond to community demands and initiatives; and the facilitation o f people access
to informatio;.   Inaddition, through the establishment of strategic knowledge networks, a greater
contribution will be to increase the ability o f communities and their associated organizations
(governmental and non-governmental) to set and achieve sustainable development goals and impacts.

Developingcapacities for community driven development, therefore, requires not only efforts to increase
individual technical skills and procedures, but mainly to address the conditions and incentives necessary
to mobilize people, information and resources around consistent development objectives.

Inpractice, the issue seems to be how to contextualize capacity development within a broader visionand
strategy. While training remains the key component o f most initiatives, there i s a growing recognition
that effective capacity efforts involve more than individual-based training. Two important lessons were
highlightedina recent study6.First,training o f individuals does not automatically result inthe envisaged
change inthe organizations to which they belong. Often individuals do not share what they learnedwith
others inthe organization due to lack o f incentives, conditions and exchange channels or even to secure
personal interests. Second, improved capacities require changes inthe institutional context where those
interactions occur inorder to respond more adequately to the problems and challenges posedby



                                                     - 97 -

development initiatives and the changing context inwhich they occur, such as political reform, people
participation, partnerships, etc.

Particularly on CDD, experience has demonstrated that inadequate human and organizational capacities
at community level and unfavorable institutional environments are key factors constraining many
initiatives. Improvedcapacities on the part o f municipal governments and their partners are o f critical
importance inrespondingmore adequately to the problems and challenges relating to changing local
contexts, such as the decentralization o f decision making and resource allocation to local level, and to
financing development initiatives ledby communities and their associated organizations.

Inorder to enhance and sustain the ability to achieve sustainable development impacts, it has been
suggested that capacity development efforts should be addressed along three distinct dimensions. It is
worth noticing the way inwhich different organizations have defined them. For the OPCS at the World
Bank', capacity building(sic) may be viewed as having three elements: (a) human development to share
and disseminate knowledge while transferring and enhancing skills; (b)policy development which
involves formulating, implementing and monitoring policy choices; and (c) institutional development to
help improving a country's rules, enforcement mechanisms and organizations. UNDP has considered (a)
individual capacity which involves enabling individuals to embark on a continuousprocess o f learning;
(b) institutional capacity which involves buildingon existing initiatives and encouraging them to grow;
and (c) societal capacity which involves transformation for development through the creation o f
opportunities, whether inthe public or private sector, to enable people to use and expand their capacitie:.

Expanding on these interpretations, this framework suggests three levels o f intervention along a C D D
approach: human, organizational and institutional. Human development entails learning processes that
enhance and share individuals' knowledge, skills, talents, attitudes and values towards `empowerment'.
Organizational development refers to the ability o f people to work together and mobilize information and
resources through a defined set o f intra and interrelations to achieve objectives of common interest
within particular institutional contexts. Institutional development refers to the capacity to negotiate and
enforce mechanisms, rules and norms that hold policies and organizations accountable to citizens.

Although organizational development has been conceptually defined as a subset o f institutional
development (WDR 1997), there i s a need for unpacking their specificities within a C D D perspective.
Development agencies, practitioners and academics have widely advocated the importance o f focusing o n
organizing community members and strengthening their organizations to enable them to address their
needs effectively and to make use o f the opportunities available to initiate and sustain development
processes. Underlying it, there i s an increased recognition that organized groups and communities are
more likely to have their voice heard and their demands met. There i s also the assumption that organized
communities have demonstrated a great potential role to play inpolicy making to nurture accountability,
efficiency, social inclusion and sustainability.

Community organization, however, i s a complex process that still needs to be reflected much more
 systematically inpolicy making, poverty reduction operations and analytical work. Although there i s no
 single model for community organization, given very different socio-cultural, political and economic
contexts, experience has shown that three elements are present when efforts are successful. First, it i s
 essential to invest and support information sharing mechanisms for individuals to increase their potential
to act on their own choices as well as rights and access to opportunities (market, public goods and
 services). While engaging in an organization may represent a key step, it i s also important to guarantee
the impact o f the organization and its collective actions. This requires enhancing the processes,
 conditions and incentives for individuals to pevform within their organizations towards a common



                                                     - 9a -

purpose. Finally, inorder to sustain inclusive, informedparticipation and collective action it i s critical to
consider the institutional processes and relations in which individuals and their organizations operate to
create the conditions for people to voice their knowledge, to debate issues, and to engage inpriority
setting and budget expenditure.

From an operational perspective, this means linking the efforts o f strengthening individual capabilities
and skills (human development) more directly to the internal processes and matters pertinent to the
groups or organizations inwhich those individuals operate (organizational development) while adjusting
them to the overall institutional context inwhich individuals and organizations interact (institutional
development). This linkage has been well schematized by Forbes Davidson inhis recent work on
capacity buildingfor urban management for UNCHS. At the heart o f this scheme, we have added the
target group inorder to highlightthe dynamics between individuals and organizations, as previously
discussed.



                      -
                     -b

        Entry                                                                          Intervention

        Points        ______,                                                          Areas


                                            Institutional DeveloDment               I




                          Scheme 1- Capacity development conceptual frameworkLa


The scheme above illustrates the inter-relation among its three dimensions and suggests three potential
levels o f intervention which may help visualizing where to situate a capacity development effort within a
given context. Findingthe more appropriate entry point for capacity development strategies and action
plans will rely on the development objectives and the existing capabilities o f the stakeholders involved in
the process.

Key, inthis process, i s to start from the properly articulatedneeds o f the target group ina way that
informs effective demands and actions as well as enhances the supplier's ability to respond and ensure
that this response meets `beneficiaries' needs.

4.       Capacitydevelopmentwithin the context of FASI11

Within the context o f FAS 111,capacity development will serve as a cross-cutting framework for action, a
buildingblock for community driven development and a foundation for the creation o fthe necessary
conditions for improved long term governance. It will underlie the whole strategy to improve and
institutionalize individual and organizational skills, competences and abilities at the community level and
inthe context o fthe decentralizationprocess at the municipallevel.




                                                     - 99 -

More specifically, it will entail a dynamic learning process, focusing on four inter-related aspects: (a)
enhancing technical skills and individual competences for managing assets and resources along the
project cycle; (b) fostering human and organizational capabilities for collective action and civic
engagement inlocal development beyondthe subprojects constructionhehabilitation; (c) establishing
information sharing networks and knowledge platforms among key decision making and implementing
organizations; and (d) strengtheninginstitutional competences for establishing collaborative partnerships
and relations among the Nucleus Groups (NG), Municipal Administrations (MA) and other government
levels and sectors.

The ultimate goal o fthis learning process is to nurture local ownership o fthe skills, capabilities,
processes, assets and relations, with a special emphasis on the role o f the NGs and the MASalong the
sub-projects cycle and portfolio implementation.

FAS I11will buildon experiences in FAS Iand I1inpromoting the organization o f community members
and establishingtransparent mechanisms for the delivery o fbasic infrastructure. From a capacity
development perspective, these achievements provide a solid starting point and basis for promoting the
requiredcollective action, strategic partnerships and accountability among communities, MAS,local
partners and other government structures.

Activities will focus on the specific role that each o f these key target entities will play inFAS III:(a)
FAS as a facilitator, financing and monitoringagency; (b) MASas managerial agencies inthe longterm;
(c) NGs as representatives o f community members; and (d) local partners as knowledge sharing and
implementingorganizations at community andmunicipal government levels.

FAS I11will move gradually from implementation to the coordination o f the subprojects delivery and
sustainability. Inthe short term, FASwill continue implementing subprojects, but within a
sharply-focused learning process inwhich NGs, MASand local partners will be capacitated to assume
FAS current management responsibilities along the project cycle. Emphasis will be placed on developing
the capacity ofcommunities and MASto deliveryaccountable public goods throughparticipatory
processes. Inthe mediumterm, FAS will become a facilitator, quality control and financial agency,
focusing on a more concerted effort with its keypartners. Inthe long term, it i s expected to become an
institute o f excellence inlocal development, acting as an umbrella organization at the regional level. This
would be an asset, given the current absenceo f an institutiono f this nature inthe country.

This move, however, is anticipatedto be incremental with enough time andresources available for FAS
to capacitate those key stakeholders. A systematic graduation process has beendesignedwhich will
capacitate and evaluate them based on their ability to take over FAS management responsibilities inan
accountable andparticipatory manner. Within this reorientation, FAS 111i s expected to contribute to the
creation o f a foundation and conducive environment towards the long term consolidation o f
decentralization.

4.1     Target group

FAS I11will continue working along FAS I1lines, but it will make amore concerted effort to target a
wider group, including MAS,a network o f local organizations and other government sectors. It will target
a collective group o f beneficiaries o f the infrastructure, and their associated partners and suppliers, as
follows:




                                                      -100-

e      FAS staff;
e       Communities and NGs;
e      Network o f intermediary organizations: local NGOs, training institutes, umbrella support
        institutions, private sector, church, trainers; experts and contractors;
a       MASincludingappointedofficials and their professionalandtechnical personnel;
a       Provincial and central government, line ministries (health, education, etc).

4.2     Strategic focus

The strategic focus o f efforts on capacity development - for better subproject design, implementation and
sustainability at community level, as well as accountable and participatory service delivery from
municipalities -will be on four inter-related areas:

       Articulate demands at community level - facilitate participatory processes for communities and
        their associated organizations to clarify and properly articulate their needs, and the means o f
        translating those needs into effective demands and actions. While also increasing communities`
        abilities to negotiate their priorities with government structures;
        Enhance the supplier's accountability to demands - strengthen services providers, NGs, MAS,
        local partners' and line ministries' ability to respondmore adequately to their constituencies, and
        ensure that this response meets community demands and sub-project sustainability requirements;
        Establish operational networks to integrate and manage dispersed efforts, aligning collective
        actions and coordinating practices among community-based (NGs), non-governmental
        (implementing, knowledge sharing and institutional support partners) and governmental
        organizations (MAS,provincial government and line ministries) working directly and indirectly
        on the sub-projects and on decentralization;
        Establish dynamic knowledge management mechanisms andplatforms to share information and
        lessons learnt by documenting and disseminating sub-project knowledge, experiences and
        impacts as well as establishing thematic debates on key conceptual and operational issues at
        community, municipal, provincial and central levels.

4.3 Products

Four inter-related products will be highlighted by the capacity development process:

a        Training on-the-job (training o f trainers, tailor made courses and lectures);
e        Training o f fj o b (field visits, working groups, etc);
a        Facilitation o f collaborative networking and multiple stakeholder partnerships (debates,
         competitions, best criteria, etc);
e        Research and communication (studies, handbooks etc).

4.4 Lessons learned for designing FAS I11Capacity Development Strategy

The capacity development strategy will buildon the activities and lessons learnt from the FAS 11capacity
buildingcomponent. FAS I1focused on the training o f community management trainers andthe
adaptation o f the materials along three modules o f activities:

Module 1-Participatory assessment techniques and community project planning
Module 2 - Project cycle management and M&E
Module 3 - Strategic planning


                                                       -101 -

The following outputs have been achieved by the FAS I1C B component:

        719 participants (local NGOs, community associations; NGs; MAS)in the 9 provinces inmodule
         1, community project identification and M&E;
        Trained 139 local trainees (`formadores locais') inmodule 1and 2;
        Developed a training o f trainers manual on participatory assessment;
        Developed a training manual on identification and planning o f community projects;
        Developed a training manual on project planning and monitoring and evaluation;
        Developed quantitative and qualitative training performances indicators for the SIFAS.

Despite these achievements, the following lessons and potential areas for improvement have been
identifiedregarding targeting, contents and process:

        Local trainees low capacity to absorb and transfer knowledge
        Need to review training methods and materials
        Better selection o f trainees
a       Local trainees work instability
        Focus on strengthening the capacity o f organizations insteado f individuals
a       Local implementing partners few and overwhelmed
        Need to set up realistic timeframes and working plans
         Qualified local trainers could be absorbed by the implementing partners
         Better defined roles and responsibilities based on partners comparative capacities
         Coordinate efforts based on partners comparative capacities
a        Local implementing partners emergency-prone focus
         Strengthen their capacity in strategic planning and institutional development tailored within
         non-consolidated decentralization contexts
a        Community members unequal participation in activities
         Hire or form better facilitators to strength the capacity ofNGs, local partners and MASto carry
         out truly participatory processes along the whole project cycle
         Strengthen the capacity o f community members, implementers and MASon participatory
         planning and management along the whole project cycle
         Review beneficiary assessment
         Special attention to the mobilizationphase and assessments
         Set up mechanisms for PM&E along the whole project cycle

4.5      Implementationplan

The underlying principle inthe implementation plan i s that changes require a systematic understanding
o f processes and relations o f actors operating inthem. It follows a three-step process: (i)
                                                                                           assessment o f
the Situation; (ii)strategic Guidelines and Scenarios; and (iii)  implementation and Knowledge
Management.

Step 1: Assessment of Situation

Capacity development assessments will be carried out, providing FAS with a comprehensive information
basis for the preparation o f FAS I11strategic guidelines, scenarios, support programs and action plans.

Itwill focus on the organizational capabilities (OCA) and training needs (TNA) o f FAS, identified NGs
and MASas well as their associated andor potential partners. Inventories o f the organizations to be


                                                     - 102 -

assessed will be developed by FAS together with abovementioned potential local partners prior to
assessment. More specifically, it will assess:


0       FAS human resources, organizationalprocesses and institutional arrangements for acting as a
        facilitator, financing and monitoring agency;
0       MAShumanresources, organizationalprocesses and institutional arrangements for acting as
        managerial agencies inthe long term;
0       NGshuman and organizational capabilities for representing community members;
0       Local partners human and organizational capabilities for acting as implementers.

The methodology includes:


0       Desk research to collect and analyse relevant documents (policy papers, laws and regulations,
        reports and researches), lessons learnt and training materials regarding local development
        planning and management;
0       Structured interviews with central and provincial government officials and technical staff,
        multilateral and non-governmental entities involved inthe discussions, design and
        implementation o f decentralization at municipal level;
0       Structured interviews with MAS,communities and local partners on their understanding and
        competences to delivery and manage basic infrastructure at community and municipal levels.

The assessments entail three mainproducts, including:


0       Status quo report o f the institutional environment underlying the decentralization process in
        Angola, including identification o f the constraints and deficiencies to the achievement o f the
        decentralization objectives;
0       Comprehensive understanding o f FAS human performance, organizational processes and
        institutional arrangements as well as its specific knowledge management and training potentials
        and gaps (needs) to facilitate the process o f enhancing and monitoring the actions o f its local
        partners, MASand NGs;
0       Comprehensive understanding o f MAShuman performance, organizationalprocesses and
        institutional arrangements as well as its specific knowledge management and training potentials
        and gaps (needs) to develop and manage local development plans;
0       Comprehensive understanding o f NGs human performance and organizational processes as well
        as its specific knowledge capacity and gaps (needs) to represent the community members and
        manage the sub-projects together with the MAS;
0       Comprehensive understanding o f key local partners organizationalprocesses and institutional
        arrangements as well as their specific knowledge management potentials and gaps (needs) to
        implement FAS subprojects in Component 1.

Step 2: Strategic Guidelines and Scenarios

Based on the assessments, strategic guidelines and scenarios will be drawn by a working group
comprised o f FAS and local organizations working inthe field o f local development planning and
management inAngola.

This collaborative process seeks to involve from the start the identifiedorganizations that will be
working directly with FAS ininterpreting the assessments' information. By moving beyond conventional
analysis, which produce considerable information about an organization, but not with the organization



                                                     -103-

members, this process will configure a learning process itself. Experience has shown that collaborative
processes are more likely to produce effective actions than conclusions reached by outside experts.

The guidelines and scenarios will form a basis for elaborating support programs and actions plans which
will specify what has to be done by whom and when to achieve the project objectives, including:

         Definition o f the general and specific objectives o f the implementation plan;
         Definition o f the lines o f action, includingresponsibilities, targeting, timeframe and budget;
         Drawing up agreements for coordinated actions and aligned interventions among partners.

Step 3: Implementation and Knowledge Management

3.I      Transition activities between FAS 11and 111

Given FAS III's new focus and methods o f team building, problem solving and leadership, a series o f
new ideas, values, attitudes, rules and mechanisms needto be exchangedlearned, internalized and
institutionalized by the staff prior to project implementation. This i s also relevant given the envisaged
multiple role each one will play as technicians, facilitators/managers and trainers.

Inorder to prepare FAS staff to manage the project's conceptual and operationalchanges, a transition
process will be carried out between FAS I1and 111.It i s expected that this process will provide, together
with FAS staffexperience, the foundation for advocatingand implementing the project. Hence, a more
concerted and multi-skillscapacity development effort i s proposed to enhance the capabilities o f FAS
staff, focusing on key conceptual and operational aspects o f the project. These aspects include:

Conceptually:
e        Community driven development principles and tools at community and municipal levels;
e        Participatory planning;
e        Strategic planning;
e        Participatory monitoring and evaluation;
e        Quality control;
e        Conflict resolution and consensus buildingfor sustainable development;
e        Leadership and facilitation for sustainable development;
e        Decentralization;
e        Municipal development management;
e        Environmental and social management.

Technically:
e        Sub-project and portfolio design, specifications, costing and budgeting;
e        Financial management;
e        Procurement planning and management;
e        Contracting;
e        Sub-project and portfolio management;
e
.        Monitoring and evaluation;
e        Supervision;
         Environmental screening and mitigation;
e        In-depth understanding o f FAS I11operational procedures and manuals.




                                                      - 104-

From a managerial viewpoint:
        Facilitation o f group discussions;
        Leadership, negotiation and networking;
        Conflict resolution and consensus building;
        Knowledge sharing;
        Coordination;
        Capacity assessment, analysis, monitoring and evaluation;
        Training o f trainers;
        Database gathering, analysis and updating.

Some o f these will be covered prior to the implementation o f the project (transitional period) while
others will be strategically promoted throughout the CDC project cycle and the M D C graduation scheme
inaccordance with the practical tasks FAS is supposedto undertake.

The transitional process entails 7 main activities, including:

1        Performance assessment for FAS I11institutional arrangements;
2        Training o f trainers (TOT)on financial management; Preliminary steps andcompilation o f key
         required documents for FAS I11implementation;
3        Preliminary steps and compilation o f key documents for FAS I11implementation;
4        Induction on FAS I11key concepts and operational procedures along a C D D approach;
5        TOTTraining o ftrainers (TOT)on leadership, facilitation and knowledge transferring techniques;
6        TOTon PM&E and quality control; and
7        TOTon environmental awareness, screening, mitigation and management.

The TOTfor FAS incorporate not only the improvement o f individuals' skills and performance, but also
their capacity to better perform their multiple roles, for instance, transferring the acquiredknowledge to
its target group. Finally, it allows the elaboration and testing o f the training and promotional materials
that will be usedby them throughout project implementation.

TOTworkshops and materials will then be tailored by FAS per field o f expertise and will be consistent
with the required knowledge for its target group, to engage inthe project and play their roles and
responsibilities accordingly. For instance, on CDD, NGs will be providedtraining on social mobilization
and community participation inthe project cycle while MASwill be providedtraining on local
development planning and management.

The guidelines for the definition o f the TOTactivities are: objectives, specific actions, outcome, logistics,
institutional arrangements, workshop requirements and general indicators for impact measuring. Inthe
design and delivery o f the activities, special attention will be paid to staff exchanging their views,
experiences and expectations on the project, inline with their field o f expertise, as well as on the
provinces particularities and specific requirements for the implementation o f FAS 111.

 From a human development perspective, the process aims to clarify the individual's roles and
responsibilities in line with the new role that FAS will play as a facilitator, financing and monitoring
 agency. Also, to enhance individual's knowledge and technical skills on the project key concepts and
 mechanisms. And, finally to improve their capacity to play their multiple roles.

 At the organizationallevel, the transitional process will focus on reviewingFAS` organizational
 capabilities, arrangements, incentives and processes to better articulate the individual's competences,


                                                     - 105 -

intra and interrelations within the NGs, MASand Consultative Forum.

Institutionally, it offers an opportunity for FAS staff to start coordinating efforts with other key
organizations and line ministries working with municipal administrations, such as MAT and UNDP. This
will create a basis for the establishment o f knowledge management networks, platforms and mechanisms
-akeystrategic focusofFAS111.

Inorder to ensure the excellence ofthe transitional process, contractingoutstanding consultants byfield
o f expertise and thematic areas i s highly recommended for the preparation o f FAS staff and the training
materials that will be usedthroughout the CDC project cycle and the MDC graduation scheme.

After the transitional activities, specific support programs and action plans will bepromotedto develop
the capacity of the project target group, particularly the NGs and MAS.These will be developed and
carried out by FAS, social promoters and key partners according to Component 1procedures and the
Component 2 graduation scheme.

The capacity development activities by component and level of intervention are described below. A more
detailed description of the processes underlyingthose activities are presentedinthe Operational Manual
and matrix.

3.2      Community Development Component (CD)

FAS I11will intensifyits efforts in enabling genuinecommunity-driven development by enhancing
community membersand their associated organizations skills in social promotion, community
mobilization and participation in local development planning and management.

Itwill pay particular attentionto collaborative facilitation andparticipatory planning exercises to be
carried out by FAS staff. This will provide an important foundation for implementation arrangements
envisaged for the Municipal Development (MD)component.

From a capacity development viewpoint, the Community Development component will focus on three
key aspectsto: (a) enhance the human and organizational capacities at community level; (b) improve the
institutional communication channels, relational incentives and accountability mechanisms between
government structures, community members and organizations; and (c) builda comprehensive local
database comprising the communities' human, social, economic, organizational, environmental and
physical characteristics.

On the database, in face o f the absence o f such informationat local level inAngola, this may configure
an important asset itself. Inaddition, it may be used as an informationbasis for the MASto prepare the
municipal development plans requiredinthe MD component. Inthe long term, it may be strategically
usedas a means to compare, evaluate and measure the project impacts.

The focal areas o f capacity development efforts of the CD component are:

         Social mobilization;
         Organizational management;

.        Institutional development;
         Facilitationo f group discussions;
         Conflict resolution and consensus-building;
         Negotiations;


                                                     - 106-

s        Participatory planning;
s        Project cycle management;
         Financial management and costing;
         Procurement;
s        Sub-project type construction, maintenance and sustainability.

Capacity development efforts will be strategically provided along the project cycle inaccordance with
the practical tasks involved. As part o f a learning process, these efforts will be instrumental in increasing
ownership, enhancing transparency and aligning all stakeholders' roles, responsibilities and reciprocal
commitments for project sustainability. The activities, outcomes, indicators, institutional arrangements,
budget and timeframe defined by stage o f the project cycle are further detailed inthe Operational
Manual.

3.3      Municipal Development Component

The MD Component aims to facilitate a change in FAS institutional arrangements by devolving its
present functions to eligible MAS.Inface o f the varying levels o f municipal capacity, experience and
financial resources FAS will focus on facilitating and transferring its expertise to eligible MASas part o f
a graduation scheme.

The graduation `learning' process aims to nurture the development o f the MAScapacity to deliver
accountable public goods through participatory processes. The underlying principle o f the graduation
scheme is that FAS will gradually develop the capacity to assume its envisaged role o f a financing and
quality control agency while the MASwill become the managers o f a project portfolio within the context
o f a municipal development plan.

The graduation process i s expected to last 15 months. After that period, the MASwill be expected to start
implementing its project portfolio together with the targeted communities. This will follow the CDC
project cycle criteria and procedures with an emphasis on the role o f the MASin delivering, managing
and maintaining the sub-projects.

Capacity development activities will be at the heart o f the graduation scheme, and will be strategically
promoted in accordance with the required tasks the MASwill undertake at each level. They include
capacity assessments; training o f trainers; tailor made workshops; on-the-job exercises; field visits;
coordination; networking; database development, analysis and updating; questionnaires; checklists and
provisiono f equipments. These activities will be incremental with enough time and resources available
for FAS to capacitate the MASofficials and professional staff. Also to buildthe necessary mechanisms
for knowledge management and institutional networking among line ministries, Provincial Governments,
MAS,NGsandpotential partners.

A quality control system will be set up duringthe transitional periodto systematically evaluate and track
the MAS:(a) acquired knowledge, skills and competences; (b) progress regarding the graduation scheme;
and (c) capability to take over FAS management responsibilities. The quality control will be conducted
on a bi-monthly basis by a team consisting o f FAS Provincial Directors, an Internal Auditor and a
Capacity Development Assistant as well as a Provincial Government officer. The graduation to the next
level will depend on this evaluation, consistent with the performance criteria at each level o f progression.
The graduation scheme incorporates eight levels with specific steps, activities, outcomes, indicators,
institutional arrangements, budget and timeframe defined by level as further detailed inthe Operational
Manual.



                                                     - 107-

3.4      Capacity Development by level of intervention

The framework highlightsthree levels o f intervention that together form a dynamic systemfor the
allocation o f the capacity development actions:

Human Development (HD) -the individual inrelation to hisfher organization

This level entails transferring informationand enhancing skills to improve an individual's awareness and
vision, communication skills, analytical thinking and performance as part o f a group. Actions will focus
on improving individual knowledge and ability to engage inthe project, and understanding and playing
envisaged roles and responsibilities.

The success o f the strategy relies partially on FAS staff capacity to communicate and champion the
project along the envisaged concepts and procedures. Pro-active attitudes and multiple skills beyond
technicalities are at the heart o f the strategy. Facilitation techniques, conflict resolution and knowledge
transferring methods will be providedto FAS staff as a pre-requisite to the implementation o f the project.

Social promoters will play a key role inbuilding bridges between community members, MASofficials
and technical staff. Social mobilization techniques, listening and organizational skills will be highlighted
at participatory workshops. Social promoters will also play an essential role inidentifying and promoting
those within the communities and MASwho have been excluded from decision making processes, such as
women.

Attention will be paid to facilitate community members in organizing themselves as members o fNGs, in
order to prioritize their demands and find solutions to their problems collectively. Advocacy and
leadership inrelation to external agencies, and transparency regarding decision making processes will be
emphasized throughout all training processes and sub-project activities.

On the technical side, community members who have shown interest, ability and/or commitment to the
implementation o f the sub-projects will be identified. Ifstrengthened, this may configure a potential
income generation activity for those individuals. As an incentive, they could be hiredas the managers o f
the infrastructure in charge o f ensuring the community responsibilities for its maintenance.

Those characteristics and attitudes will also be enhanced at the municipal level and, to a certain extent, at
provincial government and line ministries through the establishment o f channels o f communication on
project impacts, and readiness in delivering services. Transferring o f responsibility and financial
resources (through the graduation scheme) to MASi s key in order to build awareness and start changing
government official's and staff behaviors regarding community participation and policy making.




                                                       - 108 -

                   Human Context                        Human Context
                   Individual talents,                         Subproject
                                                      skills requirements




Organizational Development (OD) - the processes at organizational level

This level emphasizes improving FAS, NGs and MASorganizational efficiency and effectiveness for
managing their human resources and the project's physical assets. This includes a review o f their
mission, structure, incentives, decision making and resource allocation mechanisms in order to strengthen
their intra and inter-organizational skills, relations and processes.

SWOT analysis and similar methodologies will be carried out to identify the internal organizational
strengths and weaknesses o f FAS, NGs and MASas well as the external opportunities and threats
pertaining to the context where they operate, including the capability o f their associated and/or potential
partners.

Onthe project cycle, capacity development assessments will be carried out by social promoters in
conjunction with FAS. The methodology includes structured interviews and simple questionnaires, given
to NGs and community members, MASofficials and technical staff, on their understanding o f delivery
and management o f basic public goods at community and municipal levels.

At the community level, the strategy will focus on improvingthe capacity o fthe NGsto demand, manage
and co-sustain sub-projects inan inclusive and accountable manner. It also aims to enhance NGs ability
to negotiate their demands with MASinthe long term. Actions will focus on strengthening relationships
and processes within NGs through workshops on the project cycle planning, sub-projects maintenance
and PM&E. These will combine on site discussions and field visits between and within communities in
order for groups to learn from each other.

At the municipal level, it will focus on enhancing the capability o fmunicipal officials and technical
personnel to function efficiently within the MAS.This aims to improve the ability o f the MASto deliver
accountable and quality services to communities. Actions will incorporate the strengthening o f intra and
inter-relations and processes within and between MASthrough (i)       knowledge management, and (ii)
provision o f strictly necessary equipments and materials to the MAS.This will include workshops on
participatory decision making, procurement, financial management, environmental and social
management, accountability, PM&E and quality control along the project cycle as well as field visits
between MASand inthe communities.

The links between individual and organizational competences are at the heart o f a management strategy
to be developedby the NGs and MAS,with the assistance o f FAS and social promoters.




                                                     - 109 -

                 Human Context                            Human Context
                 Individual talents,                             Subproject
                 competences and




                                       Organizational
                                           Context
                                          Structure
                                        Arrangements



InstitutionalDevelopment (ID)-the relations and exchanges at macro institutional level

This level addressesthe establishment of institutional relations and collaborative processesto promote
coordination, transparency and sustainability o f subprojects and local development plans. By doing so, it
seeks to stimulate a conducive environment to the consolidation o f a governance systemwhere
municipalities and communities are mutually accountable.

A more concerted effort will be made to promote learning and align support to initiatives towards poverty
reduction, including:

        Thematic debates comprised o f government, civil society and international `donors';
        Regional sector meetings and regular visits to communities;
e       Systematic dissemination o f project informationo f practices through a PM&E and quality
        control systemat community and municipal levels;
        Formalization o f existent `informal' collaborations, such as between FAS and PAR;
         Support for multidisciplinary studies among agencies.

More specifically, actions will emphasize the establishment o f knowledge sharing mechanisms and
collaborative platforms to strengtheninstitutional relations among the NGs, MAS,national and
international NGOs, line ministries and Provincial Government.

Starting from within, FAS will propose to the Ministry o f Planning (MOP) the formalization of its
cooperation with PAR, as a reference for likely situations within line ministries. This aims not only to
optimize their complementary activities regarding PAR analytical diagnosis and FAS financial support
for local development plans, but also to harmonize their practices to capacitate MAS,avoiding
duplication and confusion at the municipal and community level.

Special attention should be paid to enforce the institutional relations between MOPand MAT as a means
to align their efforts in the decentralizationprocess. At the policy level, this collaboration couldbe



                                                   -110-

promoted through thematic debates and regional meetings. Concepts, practices and methods should also
be harmonized among key institutions involved in the decentralization process, such as UNDP and Adra.
It is worth mentioning that UNDP andAdra have expressed a strong interest inmainstreamingthe FAS
I11capacity development framework and graduation process as a model for the country. This expression
o f interest needs to be further established through an action plan which defines the objectives, activities,
roles and responsibilities o f those all concerned actorsorganizations.

At the central government level, thematic meetings will be promoted with line ministries, international
cooperation and NGOs to reflect and share informationtowards common poverty reduction goals
(poverty reduction). Regional debates and visits to the communities and municipalities will also be
promoted in order to stimulate their contact with their future constituencies. These kindo f activities are
s t i l l very incipient in the country.

Similar processes will be established at the municipal level, bringing Provincial Governments, MAS,
NGOs, NGs and communities members together at the Consultative Forums meetings. Time and space
for full local ownership over the actuation o f the CF should be allowed in order to prepare and let their
representatives follow by themselves. This will be closely monitored by FAS staff, particularly during its
preliminary phase.




                                                    - 111 -

                                                                 Angola
                                                 Third SocialAction Fund-FASI11
                                                  Capacity Development Framework




    Key Entry Points

          TOTandtailor                                                                                Key Areas
          made workshops                                                                              of Intervention
          in FAS 111
          conceptsand
          operational
          changes;
          awareness                                                             HumanContext
          buildingand                       HumanContext
           articulation;                    Individual talents,                                                Human
           skills                                                                                              Development
           enhancement.


        TOTand tailor
        made workshops
        inparticipatory
        and strategic                                                                                          Organizational

        planning;                                                                                              Development
        knowledge                                           OrganizationalContext
        sharing; relations
        andprocesses
        strengthening.
                                                                                                               Institutional

        Tailor made                                            InstitutionalContext                            Development

        workshops                                                Decentralization
        inlocal development
        planning and                                            at municipal level

        management;
        knowledge
        coordination
        andpractices
        alignment.



' This discussionhas beenendorsedby the DecreeLaw no.17/1999 and the 2001 StrategicPlan for Administrative
Deconcentration and Decentralization (SPADD).
  On CDD, the framework builds on the work done by the CDD Anchor and OPCS at the World Bank. The schemes
and methodology elaboratedfurther expand(towards a CDD approach) on the work particularly done by UNCHS on
training of trainers and capacity building for non-governmental and community-basedorganizational outreach and
urban management.Inaddition, UNDP recently launched `capacity development' approach.
  MDGD/BPPS, 1997, `Capacity Development andUNDP: Supporting Sustainable Human Development'.
  Peltenburg,Monique, Joop de Wit and Forbes Davidson, 2000, `Capacity building for urban management:



                                                        - 112 -

Learning from recent experiences'. Habitat International 24, 2000, 5 `Capacity building for urban management:
Learning from recent experiences', pages 363-73.
World Bank, CDD Basic Concepts and Principles (web page)
 The study includedcontributions from Ghana, Thailand, Peru, Romania, Indonesia and India. Habitat International
24,2000, pages 363-73..
'World Bank, 2003, `Capacity Building Stocktaking Exercise'. OPCS BriefProgressReport
 UNDP, 2002, `Capacity for Development: New solutions to oldproblems'. Earthscan,London




                                                      - 113 -


