Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3816 ANG 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Third Social Action Fund Project (FAS III)) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
FUNDO DE APOIO SOCIAL 
 
Dated September 15, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3816 ANG
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 2003, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and FUNDO DE APOIO SOCIAL 
(FAS). 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Republic of Angola (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
forty million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 40,500,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that FAS agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
FAS, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to FAS on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement ; and 
 
WHEREAS FAS, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) FAS declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and FAS shall otherwise agree, FAS shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.  
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goo
ds, works and consultants’ services, audits and training required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) FAS shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, FAS shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, jointly with the Borrower, the plan referred to in 
Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with FAS and the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. FAS shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FAS shall not take or concur 
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving 
the Subsidiary Agreement  or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) FAS shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b)  
FAS shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by FAS of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement . 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of FAS 
 
Section 3.01. FAS shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. FAS shall at all times operate and maintain its offices, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
administrative practices. 
 
Section 3.03. FAS shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) FAS shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, 
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) FAS 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year,  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and  
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
Page  5
-
4
-
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02. (a) FAS shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial 
monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of FAS 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms.        
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or 
permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For FUNDO DE APOIO SOCIAL: 
 
Largo do Palacio 
 
C.P. 1205 
 
Luanda, Angola 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(244-2) 33 38 35 
 
(244-2) 33 01 91 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of FAS, or by FAS 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Executive Director or such other person or persons as he shall designate 
in writing, and FAS shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By   
 
 
/s/ Nils Tcheyan 
Authorized Representative 
 
FUNDO DE APOIO SOCIAL 
 
By 
 
  /s/ 
Adao 
Pinto 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement  
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and Works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a)  
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent; and (b) works estimated to 
cost more than $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods or works which should be procured as an extension of an existing 
contract, are of a proprietary nature or must be procured from a particular supplier as a 
condition of a performance guarantee and costing $20,000 equivalent or less per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
Page  9
-
8
-
4. Community 
Participation
Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000 and works estimated to cost less than 
$20,000, may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and 
described in the Operational Manual. 
5. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including 
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines and with the provisions of paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply : 
 
(a) 
with respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; 
 
(b) 
with respect to all contracts for Subprojects estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more; and 
(c) 
with respect to each contract for small works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more. 
Page  10
-
9
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultant firms for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultant firms in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for training and supervision contracts, estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract with firms 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
3. 
Single Source Selection
On an exceptional basis, services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of paragraph 2 (c) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of: (i) consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.   
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract, or to each amendment to said contracts 
raising their value above the thresholds set forth in paragraph (a) above, for the 
employment of consultants regardless of value, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract, or the related amendment, 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1. General 
FAS shall: 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual, the 
Financial Management Procedural Manual, and the Annual Work Plan and Budget.  
These Manuals and this Plan will not be amended or waived, without the Association’s 
prior written approval, if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver 
may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of 
the objectives thereof;  
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and  
(c) 
carry out the Financing Agreements and the MOUs in accordance with 
the Operational Manual, and shall not amend or waive the Financial Agreements and the 
MOUs without the Association prior written approval, if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying 
out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
2. Reports
FAS shall: 
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, quarterly on September 30, December 31, March 31 and June 
30, beginning on December 31, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section 1 above, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report, including specific reference to physical progress achieved and measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;  
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, annually on or about September 30, beginning on September 
30, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section 1 above, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report, including 
specific reference to physical progress achieved and measures recommended to ensure 
Page  14
-
13 - 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date;  
 
(c) 
review with the Association, on October 31 each year,  or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter; and 
 
(d) 
the progress report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Schedule shall 
cover, amongst other things: (i) progress achieved in the implementation of the Project in 
the previous 12 months and comparison target/actual, including environmental practices 
and standards; (ii) analysis of the reasons for not achieving the targets and plans for 
improving performance accordingly; (iii) targets and activities to be carried out in the 
coming 12 months, including work, training and procurement plans and budget;  
(iv) administration and financial operation of FAS; (v) operating costs of FAS including 
the operating costs of each FAS Provincial Coordination Committee and Project 
Municipalities; and (vi) the results of the most recent external audits of a representative 
sample of Subprojects, a review of procurement, a description of monitoring activities of 
the quality and timeliness of implementation of Subprojects and a summary of the impact 
of the most recent Subprojects. 
3. 
Annual Work Plan and Budget and Annual Procurement Audit
FAS shall: 
By September 30, beginning on September 30, 2004, and thereafter on an annual 
basis, furnish to the Association: (i) the Annual Work Plan and Budget; and (ii) a 
procurement audit; both in form and substance acceptable to the Association. 
4. Midterm 
Review
(a) 
On or about the date twenty-four (24) months after the Effective Date, or 
when one half (1/2) of the proceeds of the Credit have been disbursed, whichever is 
earlier, FAS shall carry out, jointly with the Association, a midterm review of the 
progress made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm 
Review).  
(b) 
The  Midterm Review shall cover among other things: 
(i) 
an assessment of: (a) work programs and budgets prepared to 
date and their status of implementation; (b) training provided 
under the Project; (c) procurement under the Project; (d) the 
status of the Project monitoring indicators referred to in 
Page  15
-
14 - 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and plans for updating such 
monitoring indicators; 
(ii) 
a review of the geographical, community, municipal and 
provincial indicators and of the distribution of the Subprojects 
under the Project in order to evaluate the performance of FAS in 
implementing the Project; 
(iii) 
a review of the state of maintenance of the infrastructure 
rehabilitated and constructed under the Project; and 
(iv) 
an assessment of, among other things, whether the Borrower is 
maintaining the social and economic infrastructure rehabilitated 
and constructed under the Project with sufficient personnel for 
its operation. 
(c) 
FAS shall, at least four (4) weeks prior to the Midterm Review, furnish 
to the Association a separate report describing the status of implementation of Parts A.1, 
A.2 (b) and B.2 of the Project and a summary report of the other Parts of Project 
implementation. 
(d) 
FAS shall, during the Midterm Review, prepare an action program, 
acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project having regard 
to the findings of the Midterm Review, and thereafter implement such program. 
5. 
Implementation of Subprojects
(a) 
Subprojects eligible for financing will meet the technical, financial, 
economic, social and environmental criteria and conditions specified in the Operational 
Manual. 
(b) 
The procedures in the Operational Manual shall be followed in 
identifying, processing and approving Subprojects under the Project.  
(c) 
Subprojects estimated to: (i) receive $200,000 or more will be submitted 
to the National Coordination Committee and the Association for approval prior to the 
signing of the respective Financial Agreements; (ii) receive $100,000 or more (but less 
than $200,000) will be submitted to the National Coordination Unit for approval prior to 
the signing of the respective Financial Agreements; (iii) receive $50,000 or more (but less 
than $100,000) will be submitted to FAS Provincial Coordination Committees for 
approval prior to the signing of the respective Financial Agreement; and (iv) receive less 
than $50,000 will be approved by the Municipal Administrations prior to the signing of 
the respective Financial Agreement. 
(d) 
Financing for each Subproject will not exceed 90% of the total costs of 
the Subproject. 
Page  16
-
15 - 
6. 
Financing Agreements and Subproject Committees
FAS shall enter into a Financing Agreement with each Subproject Committee for 
the benefit of each Beneficiary. The terms of the Financing Agreement shall be 
satisfactory to the Association and shall include the right for FAS to obtain adequate 
protection of the interests of the Borrower, the Association and FAS itself, through,  
inter alia
,
the following provisions: 
 
(a) 
the Subproject Committee shall carry out the Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency in accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial and 
environmental standards and maintain adequate records. 
 
(b) 
The goods, works and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit for the Subproject shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
FAS shall have the right to inspect, by itself or jointly with the 
Association and the Borrower, the goods and sites, works and construction included in 
the Subproject. 
 
(d) 
FAS shall have the right to obtain all such information as FAS or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the goods, works, site and construction 
included in the Subproject, the administration, operation, financial and environmental 
condition of the Subproject and the benefits to be derived from the Subproject. 
 
(e) 
FAS shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of a Subproject 
Committee to use the proceeds of the Credit for the relevant Subproject upon failure by 
any such Subproject Committee to perform any of its respective obligations under the 
Financing Agreement. 
 
(f) 
The Subproject Committee shall have the obligation to report to FAS on 
progress in implementing the Subproject. 
7. 
Environmental and Social Management Framework
(a) 
FAS shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with 
sound environmental practices and standards, satisfactory to the Association. 
(b) FAS 
shall: 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, the implementation of the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework; 
 
Page  17
-
16 - 
(ii) 
include the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities in 
each report referred to in paragraph 2 (b) above, together with any 
revisions proposed to be introduced into such plan and framework in 
order to achieve their respective objectives; and 
(iii) 
introduce such revisions into the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework as shall have been agreed to with the 
Association. 
Page  18
-
17 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
Performance Indicators 
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said 
indicators being subject to modifications by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association: 
Target Dates 
Performance Indicators 
 
Mid Term 
 
End of Project 
1. Number of social promoters trained 
54 
110 
2. Number of Subproject Committees trained 
210 
500 
3. Number of education infrastructures 
 
completed 
355 710 
4. Number of health infrastructures completed 
65 
130 
5. Number of water and sanitation 
 
infrastructures completed 
700 1250 
6.  Percentage of Beneficiaries satisfied 
90% 
95% 
7.  Percentage of highly performing Project 
 
Municipalities 
50% 80% 
wb231091 
Page  19
-
18 - 
M:\!WP-DOC\ANGOLA\Projects\FAS III Project\PA (Conf).doc 
September 15, 2003 3:11 PM
 
