Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3816 ANG 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Third Social Action Fund Project (FAS III)) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Page  2
2
Dated September 15, 2003 
 
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3816 ANG 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by 
Fundo de Apoio Social
 (FAS) with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) available 
to FAS, as set forth in this Agreement;  
(C) 
the Borrower intends to contract from the European Union a grant in an 
amount of Euros 45 millions (the EU Loan) to assist in financing the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement  to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
European Union (the EU Grant Agreement); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and FAS 
(the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Annual Work Plan and Budget” means the annual work plan and budget 
prepared by the National Coordination Unit (as hereinafter defined) for the purpose of the 
Project as referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means a community, municipality or group which meets 
the criteria specified in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) and to which or 
for whose benefit a grant is made or proposed to be made for a Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(c) 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the 
environmental framework dated May 19, 2003, adopted by the Borrower and referred to 
in paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which sets out the social and 
environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including: (i) environmental 
guidelines for subprojects; (ii) mitigation of any negative environmental and social 
impact of the Project; (iii) environmental and social monitoring of Subprojects; and 
(iv) institutional arrangements, as such arrangements may be revised from time to time 
with the agreement of the Association; 
(d) “FAS” 
(
Fundo de Apoio Social) 
means the Borrower’s Social Action 
Fund established by Decree No 44/94 dated October 28, 1994 (as amended by  
Decree No. 04/96 dated January 19, 1996 and by Decree 22/01 dated April 6, 2001); 
(e) 
 
“FAS Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and FAS of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement; 
(f) 
“FAS Provincial Coordination Committees
”
(Comités de Coordenação 
Provinciais)
 means each and all of the FAS committees at the provincial level established 
and operating pursuant to Decree No. 44/94 dated October 28, 1994 (as amended by 
Decree No. 04/96 dated January 19, 1996 and by Decree No. 22/01 dated April 6, 2001), 
which includes Borrower’s representatives as well as representatives from the civil 
society, non-governmental organizations and the private sector; 
(g) 
“FAS III Municipal Accounts” means each and all of the new, separately 
and independently managed advance accounts of the FAS III Provincial Accounts  
(as hereinafter defined) referred to in Section 2.02 (b) (iii) of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“FAS III Project Account” means the account referred to in 
 
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;  
(i) 
“FAS III Provincial Accounts” means each and all of the new, separately 
and independently managed advance accounts of the FAS III Special Account referred to 
in Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; 
(j) 
“FAS III Special Account”" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
3
-
(k) 
“Financing Agreement” means an agreement referred to in paragraph 6 
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement to be entered into between a FAS Provincial 
Coordination Committee and a Subproject Committee (as hereinafter defined) on the one 
hand, or the Municipal Administration and a Subproject Committee on the other hand, for 
the financing of a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) through the provision of a grant;  
(l) 
“Financial Management Procedural Manual” means the procedural 
manual referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, adopted by 
the National Coordination Committee, setting forth, 
inter alia
,
financial policies and 
procedures, accounting and internal control system and financial reporting, flow of funds, 
auditing arrangements and financial management assessments at central, provincial and 
municipal levels, as may be amended from time to time with the prior written consent of 
the Association; 
(m) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(n) 
“Fiscal Year” and FY mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing 
January 1 and ending December 31; 
(o) 
“Implementing Partner” means a non governmental organization, public 
institution, private sector enterprise, community-based, religious organization or 
development agency providing operational support to or otherwise assisting in the 
carrying out of the Project; 
(p) “Kwanza” 
(
Kwanza
)
or the acronym “KZ” means the currency of the 
Borrower; 
(q) 
“Memorandum of Understanding” or “MOU” means an agreement to be 
entered into between a FAS Provincial Coordination Committee and a Municipal 
Administration setting forth, 
inter alia
,
cooperation guidelines for the execution of Part B 
of the Project, a model of which will be included as an integral part of the Operational 
Manual; 
(r) 
 “Municipal Administrations” means each and all of the Borrower’s 
administrative representations at the municipal level in the Borrower’s territory, created 
and operating under Law No. 27/00 dated May 19, 2000; 
(s) 
“National Coordination Committee” (
Comité de Coordenação Nacional
)
means the supreme national oversight body for Project implementation created and 
operating pursuant to Decree No. 44/94 dated October 28, 1994 (as amended by  
Decree No. 04/96 dated January 19, 1996 and by Decree No. 22/01 dated April 6, 2001), 
which includes members of t
he
Borrower’s ministerial cabinet as well as representatives 
from the civil society, non governmental organizations and the private sector; 
Page  6
-
4
-
(t) 
“National Coordination Unit” (
Unidade de Coordenação Nacional
)
or 
“FAS” means the unit established pursuant to Decree No 44/94 dated October 28, 1994 
(as amended by Decree No. 04/96 dated January 19, 1996 and by Decree No. 22/01 dated 
April 6, 2001) in charge of the day-to-day management, coordination, implementation 
and administration of the Project at the national level; 
(u) 
“Operational Manual” means the comprehensive manual referred to in 
paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, adopted by the National 
Coordination Committee, revised and updated for purposes of the implementation of this 
Project, and setting forth, 
inter alia
,
operational and administrative procedures, and 
eligibility criteria for the financing of Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) and to be used 
for the purpose of implementing the Project, as may be amended from time to time with 
the prior written consent of the Association, and such Operational Manual includes all 
schedules to the Operational Manual such as the MOU model form; 
(v) 
“Project Municipalities” means those of the Borrower’s municipalities 
where the Project will be implemented; 
(w) 
“Project Provinces” means those of the Borrower’s provinces where the 
Project will be implemented; 
(x) 
“Project Year” means each twelve-month period during Project 
implementation starting from the day after the Effective Date; 
(y)  
“Subproject 
Committee” 
(
Núcleo Comunitário
)
means the Committee to 
be established by each Beneficiary Community in accordance with the Operational 
Manual and paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement for the purpose of 
identifying, preparing and implementing Subprojects;  
(z) 
“Subproject” means a specific development project which meets the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and in Paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement and which is to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under 
Parts A.1, A.2 (b) and B.2 of the Project; and  
(v) 
“Subsidiary Agreement ” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and FAS pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Agreement . 
Page  7
-
5
-
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 40,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of: (i) goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) goods and services required for Subprojects in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain:  
(i) in US Dollars, a special deposit account, the FAS III Special Account; (ii) in US 
Dollars, FAS III Provincial Accounts; and (iii) in Kwanzas, FAS III Municipal Accounts; 
all in commercial banks and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the FAS III Special Account and each respective FAS III Provincial 
Account and FAS III Municipal Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
Page  8
-
6
-
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2013 and ending April 1, 2043. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2023 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) 
of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) 
have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
Page  9
-
7
-
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part  B.2 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause FAS to perform, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, all the obligations of FAS 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable FAS to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
assist FAS in the carrying out of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to FAS as 
a
grant under a Subsidiary Agreement  to be entered into between the Borrower and FAS, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and 
which shall include, but without being limited to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement. 
(e) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement  
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement  
or any provision thereof. 
Page  10
-
8
-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, subprojects, consultants’ services, audits and training required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare jointly with FAS, and on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objective of the 
Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower and FAS on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by FAS 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.05. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project: 
(a)  
cause FAS to open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the 
Project, an account (the FAS III Project Account) in KZ in a commercial bank, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
deposit into the FAS III Project Account an initial deposit in KZ of an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 (the Initial Deposit) into such account; 
(c) 
thereafter replenish said account up to the initial amount of $500,000 by 
September 30, December 31, March 31 and June 30 in each Fiscal Year during Project 
implementation until the completion of the Project; and 
 
(d) 
use the funds in the FAS III Project Account exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project. 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, during the Project implementation, maintain or 
cause to be maintained the National Coordination Committee, the National Coordination 
Unit, (including its committees at the Provincial level) as well as the Municipal 
Administrations; all in form and functions satisfactory to the Association and with 
competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Page  11
-
9
-
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the Municipal Administrations to carry 
out Part B of the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual, and the MOU. 
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause the Municipal Administrations to enter 
into a Financing Agreement with each Subproject Committee for the benefit of each 
Beneficiary under Part B of the Project.  The terms of the Financing Agreement shall be 
satisfactory to the Association and shall include the right for the Municipal 
Administrations to obtain adequate protection of the interests of the Borrower, the 
Association and FAS, through, 
inter alia
,
the following provisions: 
 
(a) 
the Subproject Committee shall carry out the Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency in accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial and 
environmental standards and maintain adequate records. 
 
(b) 
The goods, works and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit for the Subproject shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower, the Municipal Administrations or FAS shall have the 
right to inspect, by itself or jointly with the Association and FAS, the goods and sites, 
works and construction included in the Subproject. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower, the Municipal Administrations or FAS shall have the 
right to obtain all such information as the Borrower, FAS or the Association shall 
reasonably request regarding the goods, works, site and construction included in the 
Subproject, the administration, operation, financial and environmental condition of the 
Subproject and the benefits to be derived from the Subproject. 
 
(e) 
The Municipal Administration shall have the right to suspend or 
terminate the right of a Subproject Committee to use the proceeds of the Credit for the 
relevant Subproject upon failure by any such Subproject Committee to perform any of its 
respective obligations under the Financing Agreement. 
 
(f) 
The Subproject Committee shall have the obligation to report to the 
Borrower, the Municipal Administrations or FAS on progress in implementing the 
Subproject. 
 
(g) 
The obligation for the Municipal Administration if so instructed by the 
Borrower or FAS to suspend or terminate the right of a Subproject Committee to use the 
proceeds of the Credit for the relevant Subproject upon failure by any such Subproject 
Committee to perform any of its respective obligations under the Financing Agreement. 
Page  12
-
10
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and 
(iii) 
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the FAS III Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request
.
Page  13
-
11
-
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower's Decree No. 44/94 (including its amendments by Decree 
No. 04/96 dated January 19, 1996 and by Decree No. 22/01 dated April 6, 2001) shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the ability of FAS to carry out the 
Project; and 
 
(b) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that FAS will be able to carry out the Project. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraphs (a) 
and (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the FAS III Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit 
deposited therein; 
(b) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and FAS; 
(c) 
a certified accountant, a financial internal auditor and a technical internal 
auditor have been appointed, under terms of reference, qualification and experience 
satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(d) 
 external auditors have been appointed under terms of reference, 
qualification and experience satisfactory to the Association for purposes of Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement;  
Page  14
-
12
-
(e) 
a financial management system with capacity to produce FMRs for the 
Project, including a Financial Management Procedural Manual, has been approved in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(f) 
the Operational Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association had been approved; and  
(g) 
the first Annual Work Plan and Budget for the first 12 months of the 
Project, including the commitments for each province to carry out the planned 
subprojects, has been submitted to the Association, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association.  
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by FAS, 
and is legally binding upon FAS in accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and FAS and is legally binding upon the Borrower and FAS in accordance with 
its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  15
-
13
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning (
Ministro do Planeamento
)
of
the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of  
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Planning 
 
Largo do Palácio 
 
Caixa Postal 1205 
 
Luanda 
 
Angola 
 
Facsimile: 
 
244
233 9586 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  16
-
14
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA 
 
By 
  /s/ 
Adao 
Pinto 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
  /s/ 
Nils 
Tcheyan 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  17
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
740,000 
85% 
 
(2) 
Goods, 
1,470,000 
100% of foreign 
 
Vehicles and  
 
expenditures and 
 
Equipment 
 
85% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3) 
Subprojects 
28,830,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
 
(4) 
Consultants’services 1,470,000 
85% 
 
 and 
audits
 
(5) Training 
1,100,000 
100% 
 
(6) Operating 
4,860,000 
85% 
 Costs 
 
(7) Unallocated 
 
2,030,000 
 
___________ 
 
TOTAL 40,500,000 
 
==========  
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
Page  18
-
16
-
(c) t
he
term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project Implementation, management and monitoring, including office 
supplies, utilities expenses, rental expenses, insurances, vehicles and equipment 
operation, bank charges on the FAS III Special Accounts, the FAS III Provincial 
Accounts and the FAS III Municipal Accounts, transport, travel, per diem, supervision 
costs and local contractual staff salaries but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Borrower’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures under Category (3) above unless 
the Association has received confirmation by the National Coordination Unit in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association that the related Financing Agreement executed 
under Parts A.1, A.2 (b) and B.2 of the Project has been duly executed; and (b) payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of this agreement.  
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) Subprojects under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (iii) services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and less than $50,000 equivalent each for 
individual consultants; and (iv) operating costs and training, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  19
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in achieving improved, 
expanded and sustainable utilization of basic social and economic services through:  
(a) the provision or rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure at the community 
level; (b) capacity building at the level of communities, Implementation Partners, local 
government and FAS; and (c) strengthening and improving networks to facilitate 
collective action among community members, including vulnerable groups. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Community Development 
1. 
Support for demand-driven community initiatives through the provision of 
Subprojects, including: (i) construction, rehabilitation or provision of the basic 
infrastructure for health, education, water and sanitation; (ii) small-scale community and 
municipal infrastructure; and (iii) environmental upgrading such as waste management or 
reforestation. 
2. 
(a) 
Carrying out of a conflict impact and vulnerability assessment to identify 
potential constraints to, and opportunities for, social capital building, including scope of 
vulnerability and its impact  at the community level as well as community demand for 
targeted support to vulnerable groups, through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
(b) 
Implementation of pilot interventions, such as improved access to social 
and economic services, to support vulnerable groups identified through the assessment 
through the provision of Subprojects. 
Part B
:
Municipal Development
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of municipalities through capacity development in 
participatory decision making, strategic planning, resource allocation, and 
implementation and monitoring of local development activities through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training for staff from municipalities and Implementing 
Partners. 
2. 
Support of demand-driven community initiatives at the municipal level, 
including: (i) construction, rehabilitation or provision of the basic infrastructure for 
health, education, water and sanitation; (ii) small-scale community and municipal 
infrastructure; and (iii) environmental upgrading such as waste management or 
reforestation. 
Page  20
-
18
-
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
Page  21
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account 
FAS III Special Account
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$5 million to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the FAS III 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the FAS III Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the FAS III 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the FAS III Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the FAS III Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the FAS III Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the FAS III Special 
Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
requests for deposits into the FAS III Special Account at 
such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Page  22
-
20
-
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the FAS III Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the FAS III Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the FAS III Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the FAS III Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the FAS III Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the FAS III Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  23
-
21
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the FAS III Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the FAS III Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the FAS III Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the FAS III Special Account will not be required to cover further payments 
for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the FAS III Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
FAS III Provincial Accounts
7.  
(a) 
The Borrower shall withdraw from the FAS III Special Account and 
deposit into each FAS III Provincial Account the funds necessary to assist the Project 
Provinces to pay for goods, vehicles and equipment, Subprojects, consultants services 
and audits, training and operating costs under the Project. Such withdrawals or deposits 
shall be in amounts sufficient to assist each Project Province to pay for such goods, 
vehicles and equipment, Subprojects, consultants services and audits, training and 
operating costs, provided that in no event the Borrower shall cause the amount held in 
any FAS III Provincial Account to exceed $250,000 each for Benguela, Cabinda, Huila, 
Kunene, Luanda, Namibe, Bengo, Huambo and Kwanza Sul, and $125,000 each for new 
Project Provinces to be included by the Borrower under the Project. 
 
(b)  
payments out of any FAS III Provincial Account shall only be made for 
eligible expenditures under categories 1, 2, 3 , 4, 5 and 6 as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(c)  
withdrawals from any FAS III Provincial Account may be justified by 
the Borrower on the basis of statements of expenditures for: 
Page  24
-
22
-
(i) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent; 
(ii) 
Subprojects estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent;  
(iii)  
Contracts for consultants’ services estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent; and 
(iv) 
Operating costs and training;  
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify to the Borrower. 
 
(d)  
in the event the Association, after consultation with the Borrower, 
determines that any outstanding amount in any FAS III Provincial Account is not further 
required to cover payments for eligible expenditures, the Project Province beneficiary of 
such FAS III Provincial Account, upon notice from the Association, shall promptly 
refund such outstanding amount to the FAS III Special Account. 
FAS III Municipal Accounts
8. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall withdraw from the Provincial Special Account and 
deposit into each FAS III Municipal Account the funds necessary to assist the Project 
Municipalities to pay for Subprojects and operating costs under the Project. 
 
(b) 
payments out of any FAS III Municipal Account shall only be made for 
eligible expenditures under categories 3 and 6 as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(c)  
withdrawals from any FAS III Municipal Account may be justified by 
the Borrower on the basis of statements of expenditures for: (i) Subprojects estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent; and (ii) operating costs; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify to the Borrower.  
 
(d)  
in the event the Association, after consultation with the Borrower, 
determines that any outstanding amount in any FAS III Municipal Account is not further 
required to cover payments for eligible expenditures, the Project Municipality beneficiary 
of such FAS III Municipal Account, upon notice from the Association, shall promptly 
refund such outstanding amount to the FAS III Provincial Account 
 
wb231091 
M:\!WP-DOC\ANGOLA\Projects\FAS III Project\DCA (Conf).doc 
September 15, 2003 3:11 PM
Page  25
-
23
-
