                                                  Document of
                                              The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                        ReportNo: 27717-TU




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                      ONA

                                              PROPOSEDLOAN

                             INTHEAMOUNT OFEURO49.40 MILLION
                                                    TO THE

                                          REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                                     FORA

                                    HEALTHTRANSITION PROJECT

                             INSUPPORTOFTHEFIRSTPHASEOFTHE

                         PROGRAMFORTRANSFORMATIONINHEALTH

                                                 April 21,2004




HumanDevelopmentUnit
EuropeandCentralAsia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       (Exchange Rate Effective, March 22,2004)
                            Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
                                 1,333,333  = US$1
                             US$1.47589 = SDR 1
                             US$ 1.22685 = Euro 1

                                     FISCALYEAR
                                January 1   -   December31

                         ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
APL    Adaptable Program Lending               OPV        Oral Polio Vaccine
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy             PHC        Primary Health Care
COA    Chart o f Accounts                      PHCSP      Primary Health Care Services
DPT    Diphtheria, Pertussisand Tetanus                   Project
EU     EuropeanUnion                           PIU        Project Implementation Unit
FMM    Financial ManagementManual              PMR        ProjectManagement Report
FMR    Financial Monitoring Report             PMSU       Project Management and Support
FMS    Financial Management Specialist                    Unit
GDP    Gross Domestic Product                  PPP        Purchasing Power Parity
GOT    Government of Turkey                    PPSAL      Programmatic Public Sector
HNP    HealthNutritionPopulation                          Adjustment Loan
HTP    HealthTransition Project                PTH        Programfor Transformation in
IASC   Inter Agency Steering Committee                    Health
IAWG   Inter Agency Workmg Group               RfP        Request for Proposals
IT     Information Technology                  SA         Special Account
MCF    Management Consultant Firm              SECAL      Sectoral Adjustment Loan
MDG    MillenniumDevelopmentGoals              S I L      Specific Investment Loan
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation               SPH        School of Public Health
MIS    Management Information System           SOE        Statement of Expenditures
MOH    MinistryofHealth                        SPO        State PlanningOrganization
MOLSS  MinistryofLaborand Social               SSK        Social Security Institute(Sosyal
       Security                                           Sigortalar Kurumu)
NAB    National Advisory Board                 TMA        TurkishMedicalAssociation
N C D  Non-communicable Diseases               TOR        Terms o fReference
NHIF   National HealthInsurance Fund           TWG        Technical Working Group
NPMDA  National Pharmaceuticals and            UAP        UrgentAction Plan
       MedicalDevices Agency                   UHI        UniversalHealth Insurance
OECD   Organization for Economic Co-           WHO        World Health Organization
       operation and Development

                             Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
                           Country Director    AndrewN.Vorkink
                            Sector Director:   Charles C. Griffin
                            Sector Manager:    ArminFidler
                         Task Team Leader:     EnisBaris

                                                             TURKEY                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                HealthTransitionProject

                                                           CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                  Page

  A . STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                            .................................................................  1
    1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................               1
    2.  Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                    1
    3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ....................................................                               2

  B.  PROJECTDESCRIPTION                        .................................................................................................   2
    1.  Lendinginstrument.............................................................................................................              2
    2.  Program objective and Phases ............................................................................................                   3
    3. Project development objective andkey indicators..............................................................                                4
    4. Project components.............................................................................................................              5
    5.  Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design............................................................                               6
    6.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           ..............................................................  6

  C . IMPLEMENTATION                  ..........................................................................................................    7
    1. Partnership arrangements....................................................................................................                 7
    2.  Institutional andimplementation arrangements..................................................................                              8
    3. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results ..................................................................                              8
    4.  Sustainability....................................................................................................................... 9
              . . .

    5.  Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects.................................................................                           9
    6.  Loadcredit conditions andcovenants...............................................................................
                               . .                                                                                                                  10

  D APPRAISALSUMMARY
    .                                         .................................................................................................     11
    1. Economic andfinancial analyses......................................................................................                         11
    2.  Technical...........................................................................................................................        12
    3. Fiduciary........................................................................................................................... 13
    4.  Social.................................................................................................................................     14
    5. Environment      ......................................................................................................................      15
    6.  Safeguard policies        .............................................................................................................     15
    7. Policy Exceptions andReadiness                    ......................................................................................     15

This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization                         .       .

Annex 1: CountryandProgramBackground                       ..........................................................................         16

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies                                                        .................23
Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring                       ........................................................................         28

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription           ......................................................................................          34

Annex 5: ProjectCosts...............................................................................................................          39

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                .................................................................................           40

Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                              .....................................     42

Annex 8: Procurement................................................................................................................           50

Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis                   .............................................................................          56

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues         ............................................................................................           63

Annex 11:ProjectPreparationandSupervision                       .....................................................................          64

Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile               .................................................................................           65

Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits                  ..............................................................................          66

Annex 14: Countryat a Glance       .................................................................................................           69

                                             TURKEY

                                  HEALTHTRANSITIONPROJECT

                                PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                   EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

                                              ECSHD

Date: April 21, 2004                              Team Leader: EnisBaris
Country Director: Andrew N.Vorkmk                 Sectors: Health(100%)
Sector Director: Charles C. Griffin               Themes: Health system performance (P); Injuries
Sector Manager: ArminH.Fidler                     and non-communicable diseases (S); Other social
                                                  protection and riskmanagement (S);
                                                  Decentralization(S); Administrative and civil
                                                  service reform(S)
Project ID: PO74053                               Environmentalscreening category: C
Lending Instrument: Adaptable ProgramLoan         Safeguard screening category: S3

                                       ProjectFinancingData
[XILoan     [ ] Credit  [ ] Grant   [ ] Guarantee      [ ] Other:

For LoansKredits/Others:
Total Bank financing: (e 49.40 million)




Borrower:
Republic of Turkey
Undersecretariat o fTreasury
Ankara, Turkey
Tel: 90-312-213 0297; Fax: 90-312-212-8550
e-mail: hazine@,hazine.gov.tr
www.hazine. gov.tr

ResponsibleAgencies:
MinistryofHealth
Ankara, Turkey
Tel: 90-312-4357100
e-mail: sabahattin@saglik.gov.tr
www.saalik.rrov.tr
MinistryofLabor and Social Security
Ankara, Turkey
Tel: 90-312-212 0257    Fax: 90-312-212 5239

tteksoz@csgb.gov.tr
www.csgb.gov.tr




Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?Re$
PAD A.3                                                                                     [ ]Yes [XINO
                                                                                                            I
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Re$ PAD0.-7
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                                [XIYes [ ] N
                                                                                            [ IYeso
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                                 [XIYes [ ]No
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?Re$
PAD D.7                                                                                     [XIYes [ ]No


Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3

Program's overall objective i s to improve the governance, efficiency, user and provider satisfaction, and
long-term fiscal sustainability o f the healthcare system inTurkey.

 The objective o f Phase Iis to assist the Government to strengthen the institutional environment for the
implementation o fthe Programfor Transformation inHealth that will improve system stewardship,
streamline financing and service delivery, andbuildthe institutional capacity to extendhealthinsurance
coverage to the whole population ina fiscally sustainable manner.

 The obiective o fPhase I1i s to enable the Government to complete its fiscal and institutional readinessfor
nationwide transition to family medicine and the implementation o f universal healthinsurance.
Proiect description Re$ PAD B.3.a, TechnicalAnnex 4
The specific objectives, set inlinewith Government's PTH, are to : (i)    re-structure MOHfor more
effective stewardship andpolicy making; (ii)    establish a universalhealthinsurance fund; (iii)introduce
family medicine as the model for the provision o fprimary health care services (iv) ensure financial and
managerial autonomy for all hospitals irrespective o f ownership; and (v) set up a fully computerized
health and social information system.
ComponentA: Restructuringthe M O H for Effective Stewardship. This component supports MOH's
institutionaltransition fiom a mainlyprovider o f services to apolicy maker andregulator o f service
provision, while retainingkey publichealth functions.
Component B: BuildingCapacity of the Health Insurance and Social Security Institutions. This
component supports the establishment o f a single healthinsurance fund.
Component C: Reorganizingthe Delivery o f Healthcare Services. This component has four sub-
components: (i)  adoptionof family medicine as an organizational model for the provision o f outpatient or
primary healthcare services; (ii)  integration andharmonizationo f MOHand SSK hospitalstowards great
autonomy; and (iii)  buildinganewpatientreferralmechanismto re-enforce systemhierarchy.
Component D: StrengtheningHumanResources Capacity aims at developing skills and competence of

iealth work force.
Component E: BuildingInfostructure for Health and Social Security. This component supports the
jevelopment o f national standards inline with the realignment of institutionalroles andresponsibilities.
Component F: Project Management. This component provides support for project coordinationbetween
the two ministries, overall project govemance.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PADD.6, Technical Annex 10
None

Significant, non-standard conditions, ifany, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:
None. FullBoardPresentation.
Loadcredit effectiveness:

Disbursement conditions:
     1. Criteria for application and eligibility for fundingunder the PopulationHealthGrantbe
        establishedbefore funds couldbe disbursedunder Sub-component C.4;
    2. Law o fthe School o fPublic Health enactedbefore the disbursement for the procurement of goods
        under Sub-component D.2.; and
    3. The Bank has to review and provide its no objection to disburse loanproceeds for the Pilot sub-
        project category under PartC.1,2,3 and Eof the project.

Other conditions:
     1. the PMSUandthe PIUsto bemaintainedthroughout the Projectwith qualified staffandadequate
        resources;
    2. the IASCto be maintainedthroughout the Project with satisfactory terms of reference;
    3. the POMto be maintainedthroughout the Project;
    4. a mid-term review to be conducted not later than March 31,2006; and
     5. PopulationHealth Grants to be provided under terms and conditions as agreedwith the Bank.


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and sector issues

While Turkey has made considerable progress in expanding healthcare coverage and improving on
key health indicators, it continues to rank far behind most middle-income and EUaccession countries
in terms o f health status and access to healthcare. Life expectancy is nearly ten years below the
OECD average, and infant and maternal mortality rates are among the highest o f middle-income
countries.    The health sector in Turkey is under-performing in achieving health outcomes
commensurate with its level o f socio-economic development and the amount o f expenditures in
healthcare which stand at about 6.9% o f the GDP. Substantial and sustained efforts will have to be
made if the country is to meet the European health and service standards and the Millennium
Development Goals by the year 2015.

A recent World Bank sector study "Reforming the HealthSector for ImprovedAccess andEfficiency"
(Report No.: 24358-TU released in March 2003) identified the following issues as the main reasons
behind the under-performance:

Inequalities in health and access to health care. A careful analysis o f the allocation o f human and
financial resources reveals that there are wide discrepancies in the distribution o f health personnel,
with most physicians, particularly specialists, locatedinwestern and large urban areas. Similarly, the
distribution o f public health expenditures i s not equitable; the richer regions spending more public
money per person on health care. As for health insurance coverage, large segments o fthe population,
mostly the rural and the unemployed, do not have adequate health insurance. Many are relying on the
Government's Green Card scheme which only allows free access to hospitals, but not to primary
health care or drugs. There remain gaps between the urban and rural contexts, and the different parts
o f Turkey across most health indicators.

Inefficiencies in resource allocation. Increasingly less i s spent on preventive care and on maternal
and child health. The primary health care system is under-funded and ineffective, relying more and
more on user fees. A large number o f health centers are understaffed inrural areas in general, and in
the Eastern and South Eastern Anatolia regions o f the country inparticular. The majority o f general
hospitals are operated inefficiently, with considerable wastage o f resources.

Inadequate system stewardship and governance. The Ministry of Health (MOH) had in the past
limitedinterest and capacity in effectively performing key stewardship and regulatory functions with
regard to setting health policies, criteria and standards. Until recently, there was traditionally little
coordination between the MOH and the Ministry o f Labor and Social Security (MOLSS) with both
beingresponsible for both health financing andprovision o fhealth care.

2. Rationalefor Bankinvolvement

While Bank's past involvement inthe health sector in Turkey has not been very effective inbringing
about systemic reform, the timing and scope o f this new partnership is very opportune, as the current
government is strongly committed to extensive reforms in the health sector, particularly in extending
health coverage to the entire population, and reducing the inequalities in access to and utilization o f
services across the country.     Indeed, both the Urgent Action Plan (UAP) and the Program for


                                                  1

Transformation in Health (PTH) have set tight deadlines for the necessary legislative and institutional
reforms, and several new bills have already been drafted on restructuring the social security system,
establishing the Universal Health Insurance (UHI), and reorganizing the MOH and its affiliated
institutions. Many o f these draft laws have now been opened to public scrutiny, and extensively
discussed by government agencies, the civil society and other stakeholders. They wouldbe read inthe
National Assembly subsequent to the passage o f the Framework Law on Public Administration.

As for the day-to-day operations o f the health care system, several positive changes have already been
effected that have enhanced patient choice. Most important of all is that patients can now visit any
MOH or MOLSS hospital, regardless of their eligibility, a major change o f both symbolic and
operational implications.    Another important milestones is the recruitment, for the first time, of
physicians by the MOH on a contractual basis to encourage posting in under-served areas. The
momentum already set up by the demonstration o f the strong political will and intent o f the
Government to bring about sweeping changes is unprecedented, and provides a unique window of
opportunity for continued Bank support to the sector.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The most recent CAS', and the Policy Note: "Turkey: Greater Prosperity with Social Justice" that
was prepared in November 2002 to assist the incoming new government, Government's own UAP,
released inJanuary 2003, and its sectoral spin-off, PTH, all concur almost entirely that a fundamental
overhaul - as opposed to piecemeal changes - is needed and that the system needs to be
"transformed".   There is a general consensus that the transformation should at least entail: (i)   the
separation of provision and financing of health care so as to achieve a more efficient resource
allocation and use; (ii) introduction of universal public health insurance so as to ensure equity and
access to health services; (iii)financial and administrative autonomy for public hospitals in order to
improve technical efficiency and strengthen management; (iv) introduction of family medicine in
order to integrate and streamline delivery of primary health care with inpatient care and ensure
comprehensiveness and continuity inhealth care; and (v) increased emphasis on improvingmaternal
andchildhealth. This programis designed specificallyto correspond andcontribute directly to PTH's
eight main objectives.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

Adaptable Programmatic Lending (APL) is considered to be the appropriate loan instrument for the
following reasons: (i)  the project is designed to support a large-scale program, GOT'Sown PTH, with
a broad set o f objectives aiming at reforming the entire health sector; (ii) are two implementing
                                                                              there
agencies, working intandem, albeit on different healthcare functions and in a sequenced manner; (iii)
full implementation of the program requires the passage of a packaged set of new laws and
amendments which need to come into effect in a sequenced manner and should precede major
investments under the related component; and (iv) while PTH's full implementation will take time,
and adjustments will undoubtedly be made along the process, there is a need for flexibility for the
proper timing o fPhase I1to stay the course with the implementation of the UHI.

'Board  Document No. R-2003-0181. Board date: November 6,2003 -Report No. 267560-TU

                                                   2

Both the SIL and the SECAL were considered as possible alternatives, but given the mixture o f
investment and technical assistance needs, and the scope o f the proposed First Programmatic Public
Sector Adjustment Loan (PPSAL-I) covering Social Security in general, including the UHI, these
instruments were not deemed appropriate.

Proposed financial terms reflect the preference o f the Borrower and are in line with the terms
applicable to the Bank's portfolio inTurkey.

2. Programobjective and Phases

The overall Program objective is to improve the governance, efficiency, user andprovider satisfaction,
and long-term fiscal sustainability o f the healthcare system inTurkey. Such a transformation would
be the first step towards achieving the longer term sectoral goal o f narrowing the gap in access to,
quality and utilization o f health services between Turkey and the EUcountries. This Program, with a
comprehensive and interrelatedarray o f reform elements, is technically sound, yet very ambitious. As
such, even a partial implementation would be a major improvement over the current highly
fragmented and inefficient healthcare system. Experience fiom other OECD and middle income
countries show that the track record o f such reform initiatives is checkered, and implementation
uneven, with both success stories and "lessons leamed", depending upon the political economy. Yet,
the same experience also shows that when a window o f opportunity for a comprehensive health
reform presents itself in the narrow policy space o f a government - a rare occurrence, especially in
Turkey - the design should encompass a full and mutually reinforcing reform agenda, inclusive o f all
the key functions o fhealth financing, service provision and system governance.

Phase I:(FY05-FY08) will assist GOTto: (i)             restructure MOH for more effective stewardship and
policy making; (ii) and pilot family medicine as a model for the provision o f primary health
                      design
care services; (iii) introduce financial and managerial autonomy for all public hospitals; (iv) lay the
foundation for the establishment o f the universal health insurance fund; and (v) design and pilot the
"infostructure" for the health and the social security system. The estimated cost o f investment in
Phase Iis about 49.40 million.

There will be four triggers for Phase 11: (i)     Universal Health Insurance Law has been adopted by the
National Assembly; (ii)satisfactory progress has been made towards the establishment o f the
institutional arrangements for the social security system, particularly for the UHI and a unified2
pensions system, using a common database and technological platform; (iii)                  "infostructure" for new
social security agencies has been pilot tested and evaluated; and (iv) a new Primary Health Care
(PHC) organizationalmodelbased on FamilyMedicinepilot has beentested and evaluated (please see
Annex 4 for definitions anddetails).

Phase I1will assist GOTto: (i)        roll out family medicine as the model for the provision o f primary
health care services; (ii) complete financial and managerial autonomy for public hospitals; (iii)                 make
the universal health insurance fund fully functional; and (iv) set up a fully computerized information



  "Unified" means harmonization of norms and standards with regard to obligations, entitlements and benefits across
various pensionplans.

                                                       3

system for health and social security. The estimated cost of investment in Phase I1 is about 114
million.
Phase Ii s designed to be self-contained inits investment and impact should the Government fail to
deliver o n its reform agenda. Infact, the size o f the operation was influenced by what i s needed to
lay the ground for systemic changes through institutional capacity building and pilots, yet still
sufficient to leverage policy changes. Should the reform process be interrupted, the project will
still leave behind a better trained cadres of professionals, and experience from field-tested pilots
on financing and service provision.

The project's overall objective and design are fully in line with the CAS diagnosis that "radical
reforms are necessary in the health sector", and its own objective to support Government's UAP
andits health sector objectives.

3. Project development objective and key indicators

The objective of Phase Iis to enable the Government to strengthen the institutional environment
for the implementation of its PTHthat will improve system stewardship, streamline financing and
service delivery, and build the institutional capacity to extend health insurance coverage to the
whole population in a fiscally sustainable manner. Once the Program is fully implemented, all
segments of the population would have full access to essential healthcare services, free choice of a
familyphysician and a more transparent andequitable referral system.

The specific objectives, set in line with the Government's PTH, are to assist GOTto: (i)           re-
structure MOH for more effective stewardship and policy making; (ii)       establish a universal health
insurance fund; (iii) introduce family medicine as the model for the provision o f primary health
care services; (iv) ensure financial and managerial autonomy for all public hospitals irrespective of
ownership; and (v) set up a hlly computerized health and social security information system.
Upon completion o f the Program, it is expected that MOH will be a smaller and leaner agency,
with a resource base and skills mix in line with its renewed mandate of system stewardship,
namely doing "more steering and less rowing", or in health parlance, mostly policy setting and
regulating with no responsibilities for service provision, except for that of public health programs
(Tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, etc.).      Similarly, MOLSS is also expected to relieve itself from the
function of service provision, increasingly specializing and building its institutional capacity in
essential insurance functions o f balancing revenues and expenditures, thus in risk assessment,
actuarial analysis, the definition of an essential service package, premium setting, and strategic
purchasing from andcontracting with providers.




                                                    4

4. Project components

The proposed project has six components:
Component A: Restructuring the MOHfor Effective Stewardship (Base Cost of  9.60 million).
This component supports MOH's institutional transition from a provider o f services to a policy
maker and regulator of service provision, while retaining key public health functions. This
component has four sub-components: (i)restructuring o f the MOH; (ii)establishment o f a
National Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency OMDA); (iii)quality assurance and
accreditation o f health facilities; and (iv) establishing Monitoring andEvaluation (M&E) Capacity
for the PTH.

Component B: Building Capacity of the Health Insurance and Social Security Institutions (Base
Cost of  3.00 million). This component supports the establishment o f a single health insurance
fund by means o f consolidating the four existing health insurance schemes, and expanding its
reachto an additional estimated22 million citizens who are not fully covered.

Component C: Reorganizing the Delivery of Healthcare Services (Base Cost of  15.67 million).
This component has four sub-components: (i)       introductiono f family medicine as an organizational
model for the provision o f outpatient or primary health care services; (ii)  harmonization o f MOH
and SSK hospitals towards greater autonomy; (iii)       developing an effective patient referral system
to re-inforce system hierarchy; and (iv) strengthening population health programs, including
disease surveillance, maternal and child health, preventionand control o f communicable and non-
communicable diseases (NCDs). The reorganization will be implemented in a phased manner,
withpilots inlargecities duringPhaseI, be rolledout nationwideduringthe secondphase.
                                             to

Component D: Strengthening Human Resources Capacity (Base Cost of  8.72 million) aims at
developingthe skills andcompetenceof the healthworkforce, inline with the changing role ofthe
MOH and its affiliated institutions. It has two sub-components: (i) and social security
                                                                           health
humanresourcespolicy andplanning; and (ii)        strengthening the School o f Public Health(SPH), to
become a center o f excellence inadvocacy, training andresearchfor the MOH.

Component E: Building Infostructure for Health and Social Security (Base Cost of  15.13
million).   This component supports the development o f national standards in line with the
realignment o f institutionalroles andresponsibilities inboth MOHand MOLSS. This will be done
inaphasedmanner, first with the development ofstandardsandthe establishment ofarecords and
information network in the social security system, and thereafter between the social security
system and the hospitals. It has two sub-components: (i)      buildingthe health information system;
and(ii)  buildingthe social security informationsystem.

Component F: Project Management (Base Cost of 2.60 million). This component involves
activities related to project management. It will support project coordination between the two
ministries as well as project implementation in each ministry, and an oversight mechanism for
overall project guidance and policy support for both the PTH and the project itself. It will fund
project management, including financial management and procurement, as well as technical
assistanceneededto support the Project Management Support Unit(PMSU).



                                                     5

The HTP was designed andwill be implemented inparallel with the proposedPPSAL, which will
provide budgetary support for the overall reform o f the social security system. The synergies and
inter-linkages between the two projects will provide both investment andbudgetary support for the
healthreformagenda o f the Government.

5. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design

The Health Transition Project will be Bank's fourth engagement in the HNP sector in Turkey.
The previous First Health (1991) and Second Health (1994) projects were investment projects
aimed to strengthen the delivery o f health services in the country. The Primary Health Care
Services Project (1997) was a reform-oriented project aimed at introducing family medicine in
Turkey.    Due to the difficulties in passing the necessary law, the project could not be
implemented. The loan was eventually cancelledwithout disbursement.

Bank's past experience in the health sector in Turkey i s rather checkered, with past
macroeconomic instability, uncertain political environment and limited MOH absorptive capacity
being the main reasons behind less-than-optimal project implementation. Delays in counterpart
funding, numerous policy and personnel changes, equally applicable to both the Bank and the
Government, hinderedtimely project implementation, leading to numerousproject extensions.

The presence o f a single party government with its large parliamentary majority may ease some o f
the problems that have been experienced in the past. However, other issues may still hinder
effective project implementation. These include: (i) staff turnover, with the consequent loss
                                                       high
o f project memory and skills; (ii)    lack o f additional financial incentives and limited career
opportunities for civil servants who often have to work longer hours at Bankprojects; (iii)reliance
on external procurement agencies and the subsequent problems o f compatibility with
Government's own rules and regulations; and (iv) limited integration o f MOH's technical and
operational staff and capabilities with project design and operations, and the potential loss o f
ownership by and disengagement o fthe MOH staff from project activities.

Many o f these issues are not particular to Turkey, affecting the effectiveness o f most Bank
operations, especially in the social sector. Several measures have been taken to mitigate the
problems mentioned above, both in terms of the proposed project management structure (please
see C.2 and Annex 6 for more details,) and the way the project has been prepared. For example,
all relevant MOH technical units have been fully informed o f Project's scope and purpose, and
defined project activities. In addition, the new public procurement law should mitigate some o f
the past problems. The proposed project is quite different in nature from a typical investment
operation inthat it relies heavily on technical assistance, and focuses on system reformrather than
investing ininfrastructure and equipment. Finally, a Project Management Consultant Firm(MCF)
will provide continuoustechnical and logistic support to the PMSU.

 6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

 Two alternatives were considered andrejected for the following reasons:

 1. No new health project. Given the past history of cancellations and delays in Bank-financed
 health operations, this option was seriously considered from a pure and narrow operations


                                                  6

perspective. However, as mentioned above, there is a unique window o f opportunity to reformthe
health sector in Turkey which i s an explicit and integral part o f the UAP, the     sth Five  Year
Development Plan and the PTH. Indeed, given the commitment and political will to reform the
health sector, the Government is poised to implement its own program regardless o f the Bank's
financial support. Moreover, the most recent CAS, and previous sector work, clearly point to a
need for comprehensive reform, and concur almost fully with Government's own program.
Therefore, this option was rejected as the Bank's financial and consequent technical involvement
would provide the new Government with the necessary impetus, funding and support for a timely
andthorough implementation o fits reformstrategy.

2. Another Sector Investment Loan, or apure TechnicalAssistance Loan. These options were not
considered as viable for the following reasons:

(9     Transition in the health sector i s a long process which needs consistent and continuous
       support. The scope and components o f any reform initiative, and the course and direction
       o f implementation, are likely to change over time due to a myriad o f political, social,
       economic and other reasons.
(ii) ThetransitionofthehealthsectorinTurkeyisgoingtobeacomplexprocess,withmany
       stakeholders becoming "winners" and "losers" as new institutions are being created, roles
       andresponsibilities redefined, andlines o f authority and accountability for key functions o f
       financing, service provision and management realigned. It will be a lengthy process and
       therefore needs to be phased and sequenced appropriately.
(iii) Theprojectdepartssignificantlyfrompreviousprojectsinscope,design, componentsand
       activities. There will be no investment inhealth facilities and equipment; instead support
       will be for capacity building, institutional strengthening, and discrete technical assistance
       to the process o f change, while adaptable to changing needs andpolicies along the way.

The proposedoperation is ambitious inscope andinthe nature o f changes attempted. Therefore, a
technical assistance loan would not be a suitable instrument for support to a long-term, sequenced
and relatively complex reform initiative. The APL instrument also provides for triggers at the end
of the first phase to provide impetus for continuous and sustained government engagement to
bringabout the necessary changes inthe sector.

Inthis regard, an APL is considered the most suitable instrument to support both the process of
policy dialogue, institutional support and actual reform implementation in the field while also
encouraging the enactment o f key legislation that would eventually establish the UHIand change
the roles andresponsibilities ofbothministries, particularly the MOH. The design o fthe APL will
mitigate the risk o f losing commitment o f the key stakeholders and credibility o f Government's
health reform agenda, while gradually investing, first rather modestly during Phase Iand,
subsequently, heavily once the UHILaw i s enacted andits fiscal sustainability is assessed.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

While there will not be any parallel or co-financing from other international agencies, agreements
inprinciple havebeenreachedbothwiththe EUand WHO withregardto: (i) EU's substantial
                                                                               the


                                                 7

technical and financial support to MOLSS through a grant of approximately  50 millionto build
its social security information platform and network; and (ii)    WHO'S Biennial Collaborative
Agreement with M O H for CY 04-05. Accordingly, both the EU and the Bank will share
information regarding the scope of their work, and tendering and procurement o f goods and
consultant services for the MOLSS to prevent any duplications and to ensure that their respective
investments complement each other. Similarly, WHO has agreed to providetechnical assistanceto
M O H for the M&Eofthe PTHwhichwill also receive financial support under Component A.


2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

The Project will be implementedjointly by the M O H andthe MOLSS. The existingInter Agency
Steering Committee (IASC) will remain in force, and will be responsible for project oversight,
project performance and inter-agency coordination. A Technical Working Group (TWG) for each
component and/or subcomponent will address technical issues such as preparation o f TORS,
review o fproposals, andtechnical advice and assistanceto the Project Manager and IASC.

Component B and sub-components D.l and E.2 will be implemented by the MOLSS, and
Components A, C and D and Subcomponent E.l will be implemented by the MOH, with
assistance from the PMSU. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in each o f the two ministries
will be established and be responsible for procurement, disbursement, and financial management
for ministerial-levelactivities.

A PMSUheadedby aProject Managerwill have overallresponsibilityfor project implementation,
including liaising with the World Bank and coordinating project implementation with both
ministries through the project officers in each ministry's PIU. The PMSU will also have overall
fiduciary responsibilityfor the project, be basedinthe MOH, and report to the IASC on a regular
basis.

An Inter Agency Working Group (IAWG), composed o f six technical staff from the two ministries
will be appointed for full time technical support to Project Manager.         The IAWG will be
responsible for the preparation o f workplans, timing o f activities and preparation o f TORSin
coordination with TWGs. Each TWG will have a focal point, a civil servant from the relevant
technical unit o f the responsible ministry for the component or sub-component, who will liaise
with the IAWGfor technical input and coordination.

The budget for the project (both the counterpart funding and the World Bank financing) will be
included in the annual budgets o f the respective ministries. There will be one Special Account
(SA) for the project at the Central Bank o f Turkey, and the PMSU will be responsible for
managing this account. Respective ministries will be responsible for managing the counterpart
funds.

3. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results

The M O H and the MOLSS will be the main sources o f data for monitoring o f outcomes and
results. In addition, the project will finance evaluation surveys that will produce additional data
independent from the regular administrative data systems of the Borrower that are directly


                                                 8

evaluating the impact o f the project. These evaluation surveys include: (i)      physician, health, and
users surveys; and (ii) evaluation surveys o f the various pilot programs to be financed under the
project. Finally, the PMSU will provide regular implementation progress reports, especially the
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) that will provide quantitative data and information on the
status o f project implementation on a quarterly basis and projections for the next reporting
period's implementation and financial resource requirements.


4. Sustainability

Past reform efforts in the health sector in Turkey have been marginally successful in terms o f
improving the health status o f the population because o f reasons related to overall political
economy. The current government came to power, based on a platform o f reform in the public
sector and with a parliamentary majority to implement it. One important piece o f legislation, the
Public Administration Reform Law, i s the organic law that will set the stage for reforming all
ministries and government institutions. A series o f laws on individual agencies, including the
MOHandMOLSS, andtheir affiliated agencies are also under preparation.

Inthe healthsector proper, the commitment to reformhasbeenmadepublic throughthe launching
of the PTH. A series of bills are now beingreviewed by the National Assembly. The passage o f
the law on the UHI, and the subsequent adoption o f its regulatory base, will be critical in ensuring
a fiscally and institutionally sustainable health and social security reform in Turkey. However,
before the adoption o f the law by the National Assembly, the MOLSS and the MOH will need to
carry out studies and actuarial analyses to estimate future revenues and costs under various
scenarios.    The MOLSS will also design, develop and pilot the information platform for an
effective implementation o f the universalhealth insurance and social security schemes.

5. Critical risksand possiblecontroversial aspects

Undertaking a large project inthe health sector inTurkey presents risks to the proposed HTP that
need to be carefully assessed.     The key potential risks and proactive and remedial measures
include the following:

           Risk              Risk                       RiskMinimizationMeasures
                           Rating
Generic Risks                 S      Macroeconomic: While the macroeconomic indicators are
(e.g., Macroeconomic                 constantly improving, the GOT has significantly curtailed its
and structural reform                investment budget, and needs to maintain a primary surplus o f
risks, political                     6.5% of GNP duringthe current FY. The overall debt/GDP ratio
instability, etc.)                   i s still high, with a large portion o f government budget servicing
                                     the debt. The Bank strongly recommends that a full evaluation
                                     o f the fiscal and institutional sustainability o f the proposed UHI
                                     be carried out. and a financing plan be discussed before it
                                     becomes effective. A preliminary study has already been carried
                                     out by the Bank.
                                     Political: Several internal and external political issueswill likely
                                     test the government's resolve and political will to effect large



                                                     9

                                       scale reform inthe health sector. The HTP tries to mitigate this
                                       risk through triggers for Phase 11, and is designed as a self-
                                       containedinvestment operation.
Coordination between           M       Coordination between the MOH and the MOLSS i s much
M O H and MOLSS                        improved, compared with the situation under the previous
                                       government. However, it is possible that some o f the initial
                                       goodwill and desire for collaboration may be lost, as laws are
                                       drafted and/or amended, roles and responsibilities are changed.
                                       This needs to be closely monitored during implementation. The
                                       project design tries to mitigate the risk through separation o f
                                       components to eachMinistry.
Resistancefrom                 S       Resistancefrom some stakeholders,especially from the Turkish
Stakeholders                           Medical Association (TMA) i s likely to remain, especially from
                                       those who favor maintaining the status quo, namely keeping
                                       physicians on the public payroll. The project will engage such
                                       stakeholders through discussions and dialogue, public awareness
                                       campaigns and physician surveys to assess the degree of, and
                                       reasons for, resistance, and will conduct pilots to demonstrate
                                       that family medicine i s a viable option in Turkey.          Another
                                       potential source o f resistance will be various health insurance
                                       institutions which may be reluctant to a merger and to the
                                       consequent consolidation and streamlining o f staff and
                                       operations.
InstitutionalCapacity          M       Institutional capaciq i s limited, especially in the MOH.
                                       Moreover, the MOLSS does not have any previous experience
                                       with the Bank. The project design includes the recruitment o f a
                                       MCF that will assist the PMSU inthe implementation (fiduciary

Risk Rating -H (High Risk), (Substanti, Risk), A4 (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)

6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

Conditions of negotiations: The following conditions were met prior to negotiations: (i)               Main
PMSU (Project Manager, Procurement Officer, Financial Management Officer) and Ministerial
PIU Project Officers appointed and office spaces readied; (ii) Project Operational Manual
                                                                           the
(POM) prepared; and (iii)the Request for Proposals for the Management Consultant Finn
prepared.

The following conditions were also met prior to Board presentation: (i)               the Project Operational
Manual adopted by the PMSU and the PTus; and (ii)              a functional financial management system
established by the PMSU and the PIUs.

Disbursement conditions:       (i)Criteria for application and eligibility for funding under the
Population Health Grant agreed with the Bank and adopted before loan proceeds could be
disbursed under Sub-component C.4; (ii)        Law o f the School of Public Health enacted before the
procurement o f goods under Sub-component D.2; and (iii)            the Bank has to review and provide its
no objection for the Pilot sub-projects before loan proceeds can be disbursed under Part C.l, 2, 3
andEo fthe project.



                                                      10

Other conditions: (i)the PMSU and the PIUs will be maintained throughout the Project with
qualified staff and adequate resources; (ii) IASC will be maintained throughout the Project
                                               the
with satisfactory terms of reference; (iii) POMwill be maintained throughout the Project; (iv)
                                            the
a mid-term review will be conducted not later than March 31, 2006; and (v) Population Health
Grants will be implementedunder terms and conditions as agreedwith the Bank.



D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses

As has been notedpreviously, the HTP supports GOT'Shealth reform initiatives as enunciated in
the UAP and PTH, which outline the key policy issues inthe health sector and targets all aspects
o f health care and health systems, including financing, delivery, management and organization.
The HTP i s expected to have a positive impact on access to and utilization o f health services, and
thus a positive impact on the health status of the population. The implementation o f UHI is
expected to provide financial coverage for health to the entire population, particularly the
estimated 22 million or so presently without any form o f insurance. The implementation o f family
medicine modelwill not only improve continuity o f care but also increase emphasis on prevention
and education. An additional benefit is the potential for cost reduction, since it is expected that
some o f the present expenditure on expensive specialist care and inpatient care will be reduced
following more comprehensive coverageunder family medicine. Improvedstewardship andbetter
policy-making will facilitate priority setting in the allocation o f scarce resources in the health
sector. In addition, better coordination and collaboration between M O H and MOLSS has the
potential for cost reduction and avoidance o f duplication, as patients enjoy greater access and
choice among all public facilities. Modernization o f information collection and analysis through
an expanded and comprehensive network covering not only health but also social security
institutions will facilitate more informed policy-making and better patient management. In the
longrun, significant savings are expecteddue to lower overall administration costs.

At the same time, it is useful to bear in mind that there are some areas that pose a particular
challenge. In particular, as the analysis o f expenditures under UHI demonstrates, the increased
costs associated with extending UHI pose a serious resource challenge. If the number o f the
presently uninsured i s indeed 22 million, then the fiscal impact o f Component B: Building
Capacity of the Universal Health Insurance and Social Security Institutions i s likely to be adverse
inthe short-to-medium term, considering that the increasedburdenofinsuringso manypresently
uninsuredwill behigh, irrespective ofthe level andscale ofthe measuresadopted. A preliminary
exercise carried out by the Bank in collaboration with M O H and MOLSS finds that the
introduction o f UHIwill require additional state outlays o f between 3,826 trillion TL and 6,462
trillion TL for 2002, depending on which other reform measures are adopted and implemented
along with UHI. The study concludes that, final details pending, the introduction o f UHIcan be a
fiscally viable proposition only ifthere are markedimprovements on the revenue side o f the social
security system inaddition to efficiency-enhancing reforms inthe health sector.

Overall, the potential benefits o f the project (Phase Ionly; components and activities under Phase
I1can be evaluated only after the Phase Iis satisfactorily completed) are significant, and to the


                                                   11

extent that the project components facilitate access and utilization and help in mitigating some of
the known market failures inhealth, this is an economically viable project. On balance, the results
o f the economic analysis show that the project makes sound economic sense, subject to the general
caveats o f passage o f the necessary supporting legislation and sound implementation of all the
project components.



Fiscal impact

The project itself will have a net positive fiscal benefit over the long run, since it supports
implementation o f systemic health reforms aimed at increasing efficiency in production and
delivery o f health services. The introduction o f the UHIwill have a fiscal impact inthe short run,
largely because it involves extending financial protection to the presently uninsured. Inthe long
run,however, efficiency gains from measures accompanyingUHI- like the introduction offamily
medicine and autonomization o f hospitals, both o f which are supported by the project - are
expected to yield substantial returns and the health system with UHI is expected to become
fiscally sustainable.

The Government o f Turkey will be contributing  11.86 million toward project costs, spread over
3.5 years. The maximumcontribution is expected to be inyear 3 o f the project (ie., in2006), and
is expected to be about  4.0 million. This is almost a negligible amount interms o f the expected
total MOHbudget (<1%), andi s therefore not expected to be a fiscal burden for the government.

2. Technical

The conceptual and technical foundations o f the project have been around for many years,
discussed ad infinitum andreported inwhite papers, policy notes and national conferences. Inthis
sense the project does not experiment with any new ideas in Turkey, but rather goes to scale in
including all the building blocks o f a comprehensive reform initiative overdue for about two
decades, using a rare window o f opportunity opened by current Government's UAP, and the
subsequent launching o f the PTH. It has to be noted that the proposed design concurs filly with
the recommendations o f the Sector Note "Reforming the Health Sector for ImprovedAccess and
Efficiency" inits drive for an overhaul o f the entire system.

Internationally, most health sector reform initiatives involve changes in four levels: (i)   systemic,
to reduce inequalities in access to care and increase system efficiency; (ii) institutional, to ensure
an adequate distribution o f roles and responsibilities on the basis of key functions o f health care
such as financing and service delivery; (iii) programmatic, to improve technical efficiency in the
way services are produced and provided; and (iv) instrumental, to build or strengthen the
information and intelligence base of the system. HTP's design follows similar approaches inother
countries that have undergone similar large-scale sectoral reforms.

The PTH, made public in early 2003, makes explicit reference to growing inequalities in health
and health care inTurkey and the lack o f long-term fiscal sustainability o f the highly fragmented
financing and service delivery structure, and advocates for a real change inthe way the system is
designed by proposing interventions and activities at all four levels.             First, it supports


                                                   12

Government's political will to introduce UHIfor full coverage of the population. However, such a
sudden extension of (almost) free healthcare from the an estimated 66% population coverage
requires considerable preparation including legislative changes, institutional realignment, fiscal
sustainability assessment and redefinition o f entitlements and obligations.       The project will
support all these activities, but also finance the "infostructure" necessary to operate such a large-
scale health and social security system

Second, the Program advocates for a change in the realm o f the responsibilities of the MOH,
expressedinthe motto "more steering, less rowing". The Ministry would shed most o fits hitherto
considered primary functions o f financing and service provision, and concentrate on system
stewardship, limiting its functions to policy makingin health and health care; regulation o f heath
workforce, pharmaceuticals, medical devices and other health related matters; quality assurance
and control; provision o f population health programs; and informal training of health
professionals.   Equally important, i s the proposed profound reform in public administration,
including MOH, which would also devolve key functions o f planning, resource allocation and
management to provincial and/or local administrations, possibly to some municipalities where
capacity i s greater. Hence, M O H would no longer own, manage and operate health facilities, nor
would it have abudget for doing so. Theproject will support this process.

As for the MOLSS, significant changes inits current structure are also proposed inthe package of
draft Bills for each o f the pillars o f social security. For health insurance, the existing four
institutions would be mergedto create a new NHIF with its own management structure. Similar
changes would be made to Pension, Social Assistance and Unemployment schemes. Each would
be runindependently without any cross-subsidization, and be overseenby a new and autonomous
Social Security Institute. As in the case o f MOH, MOLSS would ideally no longer operate and
finance hospitals, but rather would specialize, through its agencies, invarious insurance functions,
namely risk assessment, actuarial analysis, strategic purchasing and contracting with providers.
The project, together with the proposed PPSAL, supports this process.

Third, there would be a fundamental change inthe way preventive, primary and in-patient health
care services are delivered. The introduction o f family medicine would:           (i) general
                                                                                      make
practitioners and familyphysicians gate keepers and independent providers o f preventive and out-
patient curative services; (ii)streamline the service use andpatient referral; and (iii) families
                                                                                      allow
to choose their own provider. It is expected that eventually family physicians, through their
representatives, would engage in a contractual agreement with the NHIF for the provisiono f their
services. A similar change would occur inthe hospital sector whereby all public hospitals would
eventually become autonomous entities under the management o f provincial and local authorities.
Theproject will support this process.

Finally, the project will invest heavily inbuildinghealthcare system's informationandintelligence
base by: (i)   setting up a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit; (ii)    supporting the establishment o f
central laboratories for quality assurance and control; (iii)     reactivating the School of Public
Health; and (iv) buildingthe health and social security management information"infostructure".

3. Fiduciary




                                                   13

Financial Management. A financial management assessment was carried out at appraisal. The
proposed PMSU staffing structure includes a Financial Management Coordinator. Hehhe will
work together with the PrUs finance officers. The Coordinator has been appointed with TORS
satisfactory to the Bank.

The Special Account will be opened at the Central Bank of Turkey, and the PMSU will be
responsible from managing this account. Respective ministries will be responsible for managing
payments o f the counterpart funds and obtaining approval of the MOF's Payment Office for
payments from the Special Account. A copy o f the payment documents related to the counterpart
funds will be submitted to the PMSUfor project accounting purposes.

The PMSU will maintain separate project accounts for each implementing ministry on a cash
basis. An accounting system with technical specifications satisfactory to the Bank will be
installed no later than project Board date with the necessary Chart o f Accounts to allow for the
timely submission of the quarterly FMRs bythe PMSU. The format and the contents ofthe FMR
have been discussedbetweenthe Bank andthe PMSU, and an agreement hasbeenreached as to its
format, content and periodicity of reporting. A financial management manual i s also being
prepared, andmadeready for use byBoardpresentation.

Procurement Management.         Each ministry's PIU will coordinate its procurement fiduciary
functions with the PMSU's procurement coordinator. Both the PMSU and PIUs will be assisted
bylocalandinternational consultantsincontract managementand supervision.

Although the M O H has implemented two health projects, the procurement performance i s less
than satisfactory.   Both ministries have limited capacity to carry out Bank's procurement
procedures. To buildtheir institutionalcapacity, the civil servants assignedfor procurement inthe
implementingagencies would be sent to a training programto become familiar with procurement
procedures and requirements under Bank-financed projects.                In addition, a Consultant
Management Firm and a procurement specialist will be employed by the Borrower to assist and
support the civil servants appointed to the PMSUandPIUs.

4. Social

Social Impact. During project preparation a social assessment was carried out in four provinces
(Ankara, Istanbul, Erzurum, and Osmaniye). The main findings o f the assessment were: (i)          lack
of coherent and sustainedhealth policy; (ii)   lack ofplanning, coordination andmanagement o f the
health sector; (iii)the centralistic structure of the health sector is hindering service delivery; (iv)
inadequate education and training o f the health workforce; (v) lack o f investment in preventive
care; (vi) non-functional referral system; (vii) services providers are underpaid; (viii) current
system is prone to abuse and informal payments; (ix) lack of financial access to health services for
the poor; and (x) lack o f access to quality health care services, especially for the poor. Since these
four provinces are not entirely representative o f Turkey, the GOTagreed that the assessmentwill
beexpandedto include four additional provinces (Rize, Malatya, MuglaandDiyarbakir).

The HTP will directly or indirectly address all of the above-mentioned issues. However, it is
important to understand that it will mainly lay the foundation for the transition in the health
system, which will be implemented in full during Phase I1with the introduction o f the UHIand


                                                   14

the roll-out of Family Medicine. Thus Phase Iwill have minimal direct social impact. However,
the overhaul o f the whole healthcare system inPhase I1i s expected to affect the entire population
as a result o f universal financial access to an essential package o f preventive and curative health
care services.

Stakeholders and Participatory Elements.                  InJuly 2003, the GOTcarried out a consultative
stakeholder workshop with the participation of some 150 stakeholders prior to the last revision o f
the project concept note. Inaddition, the GOTis carrying out a stakeholder assessment using the
"policy maker" tool, and a physician survey that are financed under the PHRD grant. These will
help design the public awareness campaigns under Phase I.

Monitoring. The social impact will be monitored by the M&E Unit that is going to be set up
under Component A. Furthermore, the pilots will also have built-inmonitoring and evaluation.

5. Environment                                Category: C

The project involves no civil works, or use o f natural resources, and is not expected to have any
negative impact on the environment.

6. Safeguard policies

   Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                     Yes                   N o
   Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1)                                       [I                    [XI
   Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                   [I                    [XI
   Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                       [I                    [XI
   Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.1 1)                         [I                    [XI
   Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                            [I                   Ex1
   Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                           [I                   [XI
   Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                             [I                   [XI
   Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                     [I                   [XI
   Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                       11                   [XI
   Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                               [I                   1x1

The Phase Io fthis Program will not trigger any safeguard policies.

7. Policy Exceptions andReadiness

There will not be any policy exceptions for this project. Most o f the applicable readiness criteria
have already been met, namely: (i)           counterpart funds, already budgeted; (ii)               establishment of the
PMSU, and assignment o f the main project staff, completed by negotiations; (iii)first year
procurement plan, already drafted; and (iv) financial management and procurement arrangements,
again completedbynegotiations.




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties'claims on the
disputed areas

                                                              15

                          Annex 1:Country and ProgramBackground
                              TURKEY: HealthTransition Project

While Turkey has made considerable progress in expanding healthcare coverage and improving on
key health indicators, the country continues to rank far behind most middle-income and the EU
accession countries interms of health status and access to healthcare. Whereas Turkey is the world's
17thmost industrialized nation, it ranks only 96th out o f 175 countries in the 2003 UNDP human
development index. Its current rankingis at 16 ranks below o f what it should have been according to
its GDP per capita, estimated at PPP US$ 5,890 in 2001. Life expectancy i s nearly ten years below
the OECD average, and infant and maternal mortality rates are among the highest of middle-income
countries.

By most accounts, the health sector in Turkey is under-performing in achieving health outcomes
commensurate with its level of socio-economic development. Substantial and sustained efforts will
have to be made in the coming years if the country i s to meet the objective of improving the health
status o f its people, including meeting the health targets o f the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs) bythe year 2015.

 MDGsfor Reproductive and ChildHealth; Turkey's Challenge
  Goal: Reduce Child Mortality
  Target: Reduce by two-thirds, between 1990 and 2015, the under-five mortality rate
  Indicators: (i)Under-fiveMortality Rate (from 67/1000 in 1990downto 22/1000 in2015)
              (ii) MortalityRate(from58/1000in1990downto19/1000in2015)
                  Infant
             (iii)Proportionof 1year olds immunized against measles (82% in2002)
             (iv) Proportionofchildren immunizedagainst DPT3 andOPV3 (78% in2002)
  Goal: Improve Maternal Health
  Target: Reduce maternalmortality ratio by three quarters between 1990-2015
  Indicators: (i) MaternalMortality Ratio; (from 55/100,000 in 1995 down to 14/100,000 in2015)
               (ii)
                  Proportionofbirths attendedby skilled health personnel (81% in 1998)

A recent World Banksector study "Reforming the HealthSector for ImprovedAccess andEfficiency"
(Report No.: 24358-TU released in March 2003) looked into the determinants o f underperformance
andfound out that:

Inequalities in health and access to health care:


    0  There are wide gaps between urban and rural populations and regional disparities in
       outcomes across almost all health indicators.
    0  The poor are muchmore likelyto not get treatment when illthan the non-poor.
    0  The distribution of public expenditures on health is not equitable; the richer regions spend
       more public moneyperperson on health care compared to the poorer regions.
    0  There are wide gaps in the distribution of health personnel across the provinces and
        regions; inparticular, there is a concentration of physicians in the big cities and towns while
       rural areas are significantly understaffed.




                                                  16

    0   Large segments of the population do not have adequate health insurance or any other
        form o f financial protection; in particular, over 50 provinces have 10 percent or more o f their
        population not covered under any insurance or Green Card scheme.

Inefficiencies in resource allocation:

        Very little is spent on preventive care and on maternal and child health; in fact,
        allocations to preventive activities on a per capita basis have fallen in real terms over the last
        five years.
        The primary health care system is under-funded and ineffective; most people avoid public
        primaryhealth care facilities and either directly seek care at outpatient facilities o f hospitals or,
        ifthey canaffordit, fromthe private sector.
        A large number of health centers are understaffed and many do not have even one
        physician; the situation is particularly grim in rural areas in general and in the Eastern and
        South Eastern Anatolia regions o f the country in particular where a great number o f health
        posts are not operating for lack o fpersonnel (mid-wives).
        The majority o f general hospitals are operated inefficiently, wasting resources.

Limited system stewardship and governance:


    0   Ministry o f Health has largely been preoccupied with administering its own hospitals,
        personnel issues and constantly seeking ways to get more funds to cover its deficits. Key
        stewardship and regulatory functions, namely setting health policies, criteria and standards for
        population health, curative care, public health intelligence; regulating and enforcing all matters
        related to private healthcare financing and delivery; pharmaceuticals policy; accreditation o f
        health facilities; and assessment o f health technologies constantly get either short shrift, or are
        handledineffectively due to limited institutional capacity.


    0   There has traditionally been little coordination between the MOH and the M O L S S which,
        between them, are responsible for most financing and provision o f health care in Turkey; in
        particular, even though their activities overlap across most services and they have facilities in
        the same towns and cities.         Until recently there was little sharing of resources and
        complementarities between them and almost no planningor collaboration at any level.

To meet the ultimate objective o f improving the health status o f the population, fundamental and
systemic changes will be required in the ways that health care is financed, delivered, organized and
managed. Piecemeal changes at the marginare unlikely to reform the health system. Indeed, the very
same Sector Note, the most recent Country Assistance Strategy, and the Policy Notes, "Turkey:
Greater Prosperity with Social Justice" prepared by the Country Team inNovember 2002 to assist the
incoming new government all advocate for a comprehensive reform strategy to cover at least the
following five areas:      (i)separation offinancing andprovision functions; (ii)improvements in
resource mobilization and allocation; (iii)  universal access to health services, especially for the rural
and the poor; (iv) improvements in efficiency inproduction and delivery o f health services; and (v)
improvements insystem stewardship and governance.

It is noteworthy that World Bank's diagnosis and recommendations concur entirely with the
"Urgent Action Plan" (UAP)o f the government released in January 2003. The Plan outlines the

                                                   17

key policy issues in the health sector under the heading o f "Healthy Society", addressing all
aspects o f health care- such as financing, delivery, management and organization, and thus
representing a significant step in the country's ongoing efforts to improve the health outcomes.
The comerstones o f UAP's Healthy Society and its more expanded sectoral spinoff PTH are the
separation o f provision and financing o f health care so as to achieve a more efficient resource
allocation and use; introduction o f universal public health insurance so as to ensure equity and
access to health services; financial and administrative autonomy for public hospitals in order to
improve technical efficiency and strengthenmanagement; introductiono f family medicine so as to
integrate and streamline delivery o f primary health care with inpatient care and ensure
comprehensiveness and continuity in health care; and an increased emphasis on improving
matemal and child health.

Inadditionto the ambitious agenda, the UAPandPTHalso set a tight deadline for the legislative
and institutional reforms that are necessary to bring about the desired Transition in health.
Accordingly, both M O H and MOLSS have begun in earnest to draft new or amend existing laws.
Indeed, early drafts have already been either released for public review and comments, or are
underinternalreview. Theseinclude:

    1. Draft law on the establishment o f the Universal Health Insurance (UHI) which would
        merge and integrate premium collection (SSK, budgetary support to MOH, Bag-Kur
        Scheme for the self-employed, Pension Fund, and financial outlays under civil servants
        health planand GreenCardprogram for the poor andthe indigent) and all hnctions related
        to health financing, contracting and service purchasing, except for population health
        activities. Based on the principles o f solidarity and risk pooling, all citizens o f the country
        will be covered under one health insurance scheme, with the state making premium
        contributions on behalfo f the indigent andothers unable to do so on their ownbehalf;

    2. Draft law on Social Security Reform which will restructure the four pillars o f health,
        pension, social assistance and unemployment under one Social Security agency while
        making each autonomous in its management, without allowing for cross subsidization
        betweenthe four schemes; and

    3. A package o f seven draft laws on: (i) re-structuring of the MOH and its affiliates,
                                                   the
        School o f Public Health, the Hygiene Institute, the Health Institute for Coastal and Border
        Areas and the Higher Health Council; (ii)establishment o f the NPMDA; (iii)                  the
        amendment o f the Medical Professions Law; and (iv) the revision o f the Public Health
        Law. These legal and structural changes will strengthen MOH's ability to increase its
        policy oversight, regulate the private sector, health care technologies andpharmaceuticals,
        andhlfillits public healthandquality assurance functions more effectively.

The separation o f provision and financing provides an opportunity to introduce innovative
methods in management o f health facilities, and this will be achieved by granting financial and
administrative autonomy to public hospitals. For instance, the distinctionbetween SSK and MOH
hospitals and health centers has already been removed and patients are now free to go to hospitals
of their choice. The introduction o f hospital autonomy will require appropriate legislation that
will allow for public assets to be managed outside the direct purview o f the government, and



                                                   18

related laws and regulationwill be amended inorder to facilitate the transition o f M O H and SSK
facilities to autonomous bodies.

Inorder to improve health several changes are proposed on the delivery side as well. Preventive
and health services will receive high priority. They will be integrated with individual curative
health care services and be provided under a newly established family medicine scheme, which
will shift the emphasis from treatment of the sick to the promotion of health and prevention of
illness. This new outpatient organization modelwill bringthe physician and family members into
closer and more personal contact, enabling the physicianto play an important role inthe family's
health and the preventiono f illness. Onthe curative care side, most outpatient diagnostic services
and consultations will be provided by family practitioners with post-graduate training and new
competencies across a broad spectrum o fmedicaldisciplines, includingintemalmedicine, surgery,
obstetrics and gynecology and pediatrics. Special emphasis will be placed on continuity and
comprehensiveness of care, as well as on both psycho-social and technical quality o f health
services. Restructuring o f primary health care on the basis o f the main tenets o f family medicine,
together with the necessary changes in physician compensation schemes and incentives, are
expected to: (i) uploading hospitals and tertiary care services with morbidity that can
                   prevent
easily be dealt with at the primary care level; (ii) streamline case mix; and (iii)    strengthen the
patient referral system.

To bring about significant reductions inmaternal and infant mortality inthe shortest time period,
UAP's Healthy Society proposes to focus especially on infant and maternal health care.
Complications o f pregnancy and childbirth are the leading cause o f deaths among women o f
reproductive age, andthis problemi s particularly acute inrural areas andpoorer regions where full
access to appropriate obstetrical care is not always available, and where utilization o f available
maternal and child health services is low.       Special measures will be introduced to make
motherhood safer, and special importance will be placed on prenatal care, safe delivery, post-natal
care, obstetric emergencies, family planning and good nutrition in the context of family-based
primaryhealthcaremodel.

The transition of the health sector will result in broad-spectrum structural changes, not only in
health sector financing, management and organization, but also in the delivery o f services and in
patient-provider interaction. Inorder to manage these changes effectively as well as to oversee the
functioning o f the transformed system, the Minister o f Health has indicated numerous times that
he is keen to strengthen Ministry's stewardship and regulatory functions while letting go o f the
burdensome functions o f service delivery, financing and management of health facilities. He and
his counterpart in the MOLSS have both indicated that they would need World Bank's technical
and financial support inorder to implementthe ambitious andtime-bound agenda set by the UAP
(please see attachedLetters o f SectorPolicy).




                                                 19

                                    REPUBLIC OF TuRKlYE
                                     MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                            Health Project General Coordination Unit




Mr.James Wolfensolin
Preside111
World Bank
1818 f.1 Strect, N.W.
Washington, D,C.

uSA
20433




Dear Mr. Wolfensuhn,




           Over the last fiftccn years: various govcmments in 'Iurkey have made considcrablc
efforts lu restructure heallh servicc delivey and finaricing so as to respond to the evolving
hcalth and heallhcarc nccds and expectations of the Turkish society. During the wmc timc
y p a i , the World nank provided financial suppon lo hrcc hcahh projects to improvc the
hcalthcare system, and these Iiavc been implemcntcd satisfactorily, albeit with some
problems.

           Iiowever; Ibelie*c that the Turkish healthcare system needs a major nverlmd as soinc
chmgcs aid impmvcmcnts on the edges will not         TCSO~VCthe  intractable prvblems of weaker
systcm governunceand stewardship, chronic financiul dcficits. inefficiencies in thc allocatioii
or limited rcsoun-es. inequalitics in access to care and populzltion's dissatisfaction wilh ils
overall performancc. The "IJrgent Action Plan" (1JAP) prepated by thc 5gth and 59"'
Ciovertirnenlv intends to significantly cnhance the standards of living and qualityof life ofthe




                                                     20

                                       REPUBLICOF TURKIYE
                                        MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                               Health Project General Coordination Unit


NUMBER       : BlOOSPK
SUBJECT      :




    `l'urkish pupulatioii, of which good hcalthis an integralpart. To achieve this goal, thc U D
    envisages major changes in the way hcalthcare will be financed, managed and delivered.
    I.lenc.e,my Ministry, incooperationwith the Ministry o fLabor and Sociatl Security(MOLSS),
    launched a new programcalled `-I'ranslbmationinHealth" which aims at:

                Redefining the roles and responsibilities of the Ministry of Heiillh (MOH) tind
                restructuring its institutional setup in line with its new inaiidatc and political and
                administrative functions;
                Providing universal healthinsurance lor ht:ciitirc population;
                CniCqrinyhcalth financing under a singlc and universal heafth insurance scheme;
                Allowing finaiicial aid administrative uuii~noiiiyfor all hospitals;
                Introducing family medicine as an organization model for first linr; senkc
                delivery.;
                Improvingmotherandchildhealth;
                Rcinforcingpreventive care services;
                Promotingprivatescctor investments inthe health sector;
                'I'mistkrrjlig most tcchtikd andadministwliveauthority to sub-national levels;
                Srrmgthcning healthworkforce, and reducing distributioiml inequalities in regions
                with development priori&; and
                Execulinp c-transformation in the fields of heallhcarc andlicalth insurance.


             Withiii this framework. Itake pleasure in sharing with you my views on the scope mid
    purpose of a new project in support of Govermenl's Program '`Transformation in IIealth".
    and an how I see World Hank's technical and financial assislunca to hclp us achieve our
    programohjeclivcs.




                                                       21

                                       REPUBLIC OF ThKiYE
                                        MfNlSTRY OF HEALTH
                              Health Project General Coordination Unit


NUMBER      : BIOOSPK
SUBJECT     :




              The drive hehindthe Project isto narrow h e gap inaccess to, quality aridutilizalioii
    o f hcalth services between Turkcy and olher middle-income countries and the European
    Union by extmding health invurancc coverage to all Turkish population and by mducing
    inequalities in accessto healthcwe, cspccially for lhe poor and those living inrural and peri-
    urban areas. Tn cn-dcr to reach its goal: the Projcct will have four building blucks, which
    altogether constilulc thc core of Ciwernmcnt's Program for TransTomation inHealth:


            Strengthening and re-shaping MOH's capuily for more effective sectoral governance
            and stewardship;
            Building the institutional, humaii and iilfbrmation basis fa the inlnductinn of
            1JnivcrsalHealth Insurance;
            1ntrodur;iny thc principles uf Family-based pima.ty heallh care and autonomous in-
            puticiit service delivcry; and
            Competent ,and highly motivated health work5xce to provide care nf staiidards at par
            with rlicise ofthe European Unionmember states.


           Full implementationof boththe Program and thc Project will obviously require ncw
    lcgislationas well HS ancndments or sumc existing laws, decrees and ordiimces in force. In
    addition to the Drdt Public Adminisiration Framework Law, which is bcing read in the
    Parliamenl, and which redefines the functions and adminivtrativc setup of all government
    agencics, my ministry has alsv prcpareda packagc of bills that are necessary hthc inception
    of the `-TransTomation", subsequent to the passage or, und in compliance with, the
    Framework Law. We hopc that the legislutivo process will bring aboul CL profoundchange in
    that the MOH will nu longer cxpcnd its energy in rowing, but rather will sct the course and
    steer the healthcare systcm inthe light direction.


            W e believe tliat a two-phased Adjustable Program Lending is thc right instrument to
    sitpprt the programand Llic processof change, and we anticipate that it will last fnr about
                                                            --




                                                      22

                                       REPUBLIC OF TURKIYE
                                       MINtSTRY OF HEALTH
                               Health Project General Coordination Unit



NUMBER       :B100SPK
SUBJECT     :




    five io sevcn years. Accordingly, the first phuse, which will probably last two years, will
    mainly focus on restructuring the Ministry of Health mid setting up the Iegislativc and
    orgaiiimlioii infrastmc.turc: fur thc introduction of f m i l y pmdcc in Turkey. The Second
    phase will primarily invnlvc investment in establishing the inliastwciurc for e-heaIrh, together
    withUniversal f lealthlnsurance andthe Social Security.


            This project i s also rather unique, in that fir the first timc, it sets up a partnership
    helween the MOH and ,MOL.SS as two implementing agencies aspiring to work in parhiemhip
    tu reachthe same goal. Accordingly, my Ministry will be incharge o fproject components on
    sectoral stewardship, sencice provision and hu"i resources develrqmcnt and c-hcalth,
    whereas rhc MOLSS will assume the responsibilityfor those related lo Lhc introduction of the
    Universal Health liisurarice and the institutional setup for Social Security. In &is contcxt, wc
    h w c joiiitly established an Intcr-Agency Steering Commitlee (IASC), composed of seniot
    officials from our ministries and other state agencies (Undersccrctaries uf SPO and 'I'reasury)
    for leadership to the Inter-Agency Working Grtiup (IAWG), in charge of project prcparation.
    We inlendto keep MSC' and L4WGfunctionul oncc thc projecr becomes et'fcctive, inaddition
    to the Ptojaci Management and SupportUnitthat will be established, again with pnrticipation
    lioin cach Lfinistry.


            1 wtiit1J.like to einphasizc how important it is to benefit from Wortd t3mdc's financial
    mid tcchlical support and how much wc value our collahoration as we move towards full
    iiiip1cmsnt;rtiuno fow proyamor'rransformatioii inHealth.




                                                       23

                                     REPUBLICOF TURKIYE
                                     MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                            Health Project General Coordination Unit



NUMBER      :BlOOSPK
SUBJECT     :




           Invcstments and services provided through technical and financial support from the
    World Bank within the scope of the First and Second Health Pru-jcctshaw made important
    contributinns to public health sen-iccs of our country  ~ 1 %
                                                                wcll as to tlie effectiveness and
    efficiency of these services. I bclicvc that World Bank's continuous financial and technical
    support wider this new projcct will consolidate and add value to what has hitherto been
    acquired, and thus fbfihcr our efforts to reach thc goal we set for ourselvev to complctc
    Turkey's integrationto lhc EuropeanUnion.


           Yours Sincerely




                                                       Prof. Dr. Rccep AKDAG
                                                       Minister ofHealth




                                                   24

                                                                                    0510312004

Mr.James Wolfensohn
President
World Rank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
20433
USA

                                        SOClAL SECURlTY LETTER


Dear Mr. Wolfensahn.

Re:Lelter of Secbr Poky in Supportof Governmenf of Turkey'sPmgfZtamfor T"3fOf???&fon in Health

This letter of sector poljcy describes the principal features of Government`s Social Security Reform
and the proposed structure, and provides information on the national priorities of the Social Security
Projectfor whichwe are seeking World Banks financial and technical support.

In Turkey, it is difficult to talk about a single social security system as various schemes have evolved
over the years into different regimes with various structures. and rules and criteria for entitlements,
rights and obligations.This process had the unintended consequence of bringing about considerable
inequities and inequalities in access to social services and duplication and wastage of limited
resourcesand administrativecapacity. As a result,it isvery difficult to sustain social security services,
a5 they are no longer amenable to fiscal discipline and administrative simplicity. Indeed, all current
schemes face insurmountable problems of pmmium collection, fund management and realistic
actuarial forecasting of future expenditures. Consequently, despite the system's ability to collect
contributions amounting to about US$ nine billion, sustenance of health and social services require
significant outlays from Government budget to finance the deficit. Indeed, during the (ast decade
these outlays were the main reasons behind intractablebudget deficits, reaching In 2003 4.54 % of the
GNP. or corresponding to about 10% of the general budget. Health expenditures will typically account
for about one third of total social security expenditures, totally US$ 17 Billion accarding to the 2002
prices.

On the service provision side, there has been an escalation of costs and complaints from beneficiaries
about the accessibility to and quality of health services. At present, health services are predominantly
provided in government health facilities, and all activities ranging from resource utilization to pricing
are governed by the central authority. The Ministry of Health [MOH) plays a major role in the provision
of health services besides its regulatory, supervising, licensing and pricing roles, followed by the
Social Insurance Institution (SSK), although the latter either provides services in its awn facilities, or
purchase them from other private or public health establishments. As for other social insurance
schemes such as the Emekli Sandigi (Retirement Fund) and Bag-Kur, senrice purchasing is the norm.
Either way significant improvements have to be made in system management and govemence, based
on the principles of managed competition and quality control in order to improve pertormance and
efficiency in sewice provision and fiscal sustainability of all insurance agencies. This is all the mote
important given the current activelpassive ratio af 1,86 and a dependency ratio of 3,86, and our
objective to increasecoverage from the current 60 million insured to the enitre Turkish population.

While serious efforts have been made to gradually leave populist policies and inLroduce actuarial
accounting to ensure fiscal discipline. these remained palliative due to the insiutional disorber and
fragmented structure ofthe government and the lack of unity in standards.

Cognizant of the inherent weakness of the Social Security system, the 58* and 5gthgovernments
have, in their EmergencyAction Pian, adopted the following principles:

         0   separationof service provisjon from financing in healthcare;
             establishmentaf a Universal Health Insurance scheme and its agency;
             uniformity af norms acrossall social security institutions;
             establishmentof a unified social security network and its institutional setup:
             separationof long and short term insurance senrjces;




                                                          25

           c   consolidation of all public pension schemes undera new Pension fund;
               establishment of a unified social services and assistance network and its institutional
               structure;
               abolition of non-contributorypayments for eiigibili!y for and accessto insured services.

  Consequently. a legislative process has been initiated by my Ministry to either draft new or amend
  existing faws on Sociat Security, Draft laws have been submitted to other Ministries and nearly 150
  non-govemmentalorganizations for review and feedback, and are being reviewed for submission to
  the Parliamentin the very near future.

  It is expected that the new legislative and institutionalframeworkwill:

           increase competitivenessamong service providers;
           improveeMciency in remurce allocation and use;
           improveequality in contributionsand entitlements;

        *  extend health care coverage to the entire population;
           bring about administrative simpticity through uniformity in contracting, regulating and setting
           servicestandards and a common*infostructure";
           reduceduplications and wastage thanks to consolidation of various schemes:
           establishment of objective criteria for entitlement to social services and increase users' and
           providers' satisfaction with streamlined and transparent contracting and provider payment
           methods;
           limitgovernment contributionsto transfersfor thoseWho cannot affordto pay their premiums:
           increase fiscal sustainability thanks to actuarial premium setting, realistic service costing and
           reducedoverhead costs; and
           increase capacity in and campfiance with premium collection under the responsibility of a
           single collection agency for all social security services.

  Obviously. our legislativeefforts are carried out in close collaboration with the Ministryof Health given
  the linkagesbetween healthinsuranceand health service provision.

  Successful implementation of the sociat security reform hinges on technological and informational
  improvement in two crucial areas. First, there is an urgent need to establish a common database and
  a management information system to coordinate all related activities and provide fast, reliable,
  effective and efficient health and social services. We believethat this is the most important step inour
  reform endeavor. Second. it is equally important to set up an efficient, safe, objective, replicableand
  sustainable "means testing" mechanism that can be used to identify those citizens whose health
  insurance premiumsshall be paid by the State,

  Investment in the social security "infostructure"described above will require envisaged financial and
  technical assistance.lt is of utmost importance to establish a social security information system that
  can be integratedwith health information system so as to successfully implement a projected modern
  universal health insurance scheme up to standards of similar institutions In the countries of the
  European Union. I think that it will positively assist such a large investment to be closely coordinated
  between my Ministry and the Ministry of Health and I believe that World Bank's financial and technical
  support under the Health Transformation Projectwill be invaluablein this respect.


  Yours Sincerely,
,-Q?p'
  Murat 8aves~iolu
  The Minister%fLabarand Social Security




                                                          26

        Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies
                              TURKEY: HealthTransition Project

The First Health Project (FHP) Loan No 3057 - TU, was Bank's first experience in the HNP
sector in Turkey. The FHP was approved on May 11, 1989 and became effective on October
1990. The loan amount was US$ 75 million. The objectives o f the FHP were to: (i)     improve the
health status o f people in eight underserved provinces by extending geographic access and
improving the quality o f services; (ii)enhance the efficiency o f service delivery and improve
financial sustainability; and (iii)
                                 strengthenthe management capacity o fthe Ministry o fHealth.

The project was closed on December 31, 1998, with US$ 3.84 million undisbursed. According to
the ICRo f the FHP "the project was partially successhl inachieving its objectives".

The Second Health Project (SHP ) Loan No. 3802 - TU, was approved on September 22, 1994
and became effective on January 31, 1995.      The specific objectives of the SHP were to: (i)
improve equity of access to essential health services in23 Eastern low income priority provinces
and five provinces affected by the August 17 and November 12 1999 earthquakes; and (ii)
improve the quality o f health care management in the M O H and in selected institutions. In
particular, the project aims at decreasing fertility rates, and improving life expectancy in the
participating provinces.

The original total amount o f the loan was US$ 150 million, later revised downward to US$ 130
million after restructuring. The original closing date o f the loan was December 31, 2001. The
Loan has been extended three times. The present loan closing date is December 31, 2004.
According to the latest PSR, project development objective and implementation progress are rated
as satisfactory.

The Primary Health Care Services Project (PCHSP) Loan No. 4201 - TU was approved inJune
1997 andbecame effective inDecember 1997. The specific objectives o f the PHCSP were to: (i)
develop a primary health care system based on family physician and an effective referral system
supportedby financial incentives and improvedinfrastructure; (ii)   evaluate the developed primary
care system with a view to nationwide replication; and (iii) capacity for economic analysis
                                                            develop
inthe MOH.

The loan amount was US$ 14.5 million. After 21 months o f inactivity and no disbursement, the
project was restructured and the loan's entire amount was reallocated towards financing
emergency health interventions in the earthquake provinces. The loan was closed in June 2001,
with anundisbursedbalance ofUS$ 14million.

Inaddition to the above Bank-financed activities inthe H" sector, the European Commission
has granted 55 million for reproductive healthinTurkey. The project is managed by the MOH's
Directorate General o f Mother and Child Health and FamilyPlanning, and it i s in early stages o f
implementation.




                                                27

                               Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring
                                   TURKEY: HealthTransition Project

                                            Results Framework

       Program Purpose                End-of-Program Indicators             Use of End-of-Program
                                                                                 Information
Program Purpose (FYO5-FY11)

                                      Maternal Mortality Ratio is on      1. Evaluate the magnitude of
Phase I:(FYO5-FYO7)                   course to reach the target o fYi       change inmeeting the
                                      reductionby 2015.                      MDGs.
f i e objective o f Phase Iis to                                          2. Determine the impact o f
:nable the Government to              Child mortalityrate is on course       MOHprograms inreducing
strengthen the institutional          to reachthe target o f2/3 reduction    the geographic andsocio-
znvironment for the                   by2015.                                economic inequalities inthe
implementationo f its Program for                                            provisions o f quality health
hnsformation inHealth that will       Significant reduction in               care.
improve system stewardship,           discrepancy inMMR, IMRand           3. Monitor and evaluation the
streamline financing andservice       byregon, urbdrural and income          fiscal sustainability o f the
delivery, and buildthe institutional  quintiles.                             newUniversal Health
capacity to extendhealthinsurance                                            Insurance.
coverage to the whole population      Economic barriers to accessto       4. Determine the progress o f
inafiscally sustainable manner.       and use o f essential health           meetingthe EUaccession
                                      services covered by UHIare             criteria
Phase11:(FYOS-FY11)                   eliminated.

The objective o f Phase I1is to       Outpatient and inpatient service
enable the Government to              use indicators converge towards
complete its fiscal and institutional EUaveragebyendo fproject.
readiness for nationwide transition
to family medicine and the            Physicians' choice o f family
implementation o funiversal health    medicine as a mode o fpractice
insurance.                            increased.

                                      Increase intotal andpublic health
                                      expenditures inline with
                                      country's economic development.

                                      Reliance on subsidy from the
                                      consolidated budget for balancing
                                      the UHIFbudget reduced.

                                      Institutional and legal framework
                                      o f the health andsocial security
                                      sector is infull compliance with
                                      the acquis communautaire as a
                                      pre-condition for EUaccession.




                                                       28

I               PDO                         Outcome Indicators              Use of Outcome Information
 (APL I) Governance o f the
         -                             1. M O Hno longer involvedin
 health care system is realigned,         service provision except for
 and the roles o fresponsibilities o f    public healthprograms.
 key government agenciesare            2. MOLSS no longer involved in
 redefined along the functional lines     service provision.
 of stewardship, financing, service    3. Evidence o fpublic hospitals
 provision, and health andsocial          operatingunder a new
 security informationmanagement.          autonomous model.
                                       4. Evidence of increased user and
                                          provider satisfaction as a result
                                          o f family medicine pilot.
                                       5. Evidence o f capture anduse o f
                                          health, service use and
                                          financing data generated inthe
I                                         family medicine pilot bythe
                                          newlyintegrated information
                                          system.
      Intermediate Results              Results Indicators for Each          Use of Results Monitoring
      One per Component                          Component
 Component A: Restructuring            Component A:                         Component A:
 the MOHfor Effective
 Stewardship                            1. MOHrestructured                  1. Determine the degree o f
                                       2. NPMDA established                     success inrestructuringthe
 M O Hrestructured inline with the      3. Quality Assurance and                MOHto meet its new
 reform agenda and the amended             Accreditation systems                mandates.
 Law on M O H institutional setup.         established                      2. Determine the impact o fthe
                                       4. Monitoring andEvaluation              success o f the PTH.
                                           System operational

 Component B: Building                 Component B :                        Component B:
 Capacity of the Health Insurance
 and Social Security Institutions       1. Universal HealthInsurance        1. Determine the institutional
 A new institutionalbasis for              established.                         capacity o f the universal
 universalhealth insurance set up                                               coverage o fhealth insurance
                                                                                for the whole population.

 Component C: Reorganizing the         Component C:                         Component C:
 Delivery of Healthcare Services
 A new (i) medicine
            family                      1. Family MedicineModel              1. Lessons learned from the
 organizationalmodel for primary           definedandpilot tested.              pilot family medicine model
 health care piloted; (ii)              2. Autonomous hospitalmodel             will assist inthe design o fthe
 autonomizationo fhospitals                i s developed and first phase        national roll out.
 designed; (iii)referral system put        hospitals selected.              2. Lessons learned inthe pilot
 inplace; and(iv) Population            3. Effectivereferral system             autonomization o fhospitals
 HealthGrantprogramestablished.            established                          will determine "best practice"
                                        4. Innovative new initiatives to        for national coverage in
                                           promote population health            Phase 11.
                                           carried out                      3.  "Best practice" from the new
                                        5. Planfor new surveillance             referral systemwill be
                                           system developed                     applied nation-wide.
                                                                            4. Innovative new health
                                                                                promotion andpreventive


                                                        29

                                                                         healthprograms will be
                                                                         expanded ifthey are found to
                                                                         be cost-effective.
                                                                     5.  Improvedsurveillance system
                                                                         will provide early waming
                                                                         system for disease
                                                                         preventions.

Component D: Strengthening      ComponentD:                        ComponentD:
Human ResourcesCapacity
A new humanresourcespolicy and   1. Humanresourcesplan               1. The humanresource planning
plan developed and adopted.          developed andready for              will allow balancingthe
                                     implementation.                     country's requirements and
                                                                         supplyinthe health sector
                                 2. School of Public Healthis            thereby adjusting incentives
                                     ready to conduct courses in         for longterm equilibrium.
                                     health management and
                                     administration, health          2. The country's institutional
                                     economics andfinancing,             capacity to carry out health
                                      flagship programs, rational        sector policy andplanning
                                      druguse, epidemiological           canbe enhancedthat will
                                     intelligence service, and           also be financially
                                     population health.                  sustainable.

Component E: Building           ComponentE:                        Component E:
Infostructurefor Health and
Social Security                  The newly developed health and     Successful testing o f the
                                 social security informationsystems infostructure systems at the MOH
A newhealth and social security  are successfully tested.           and MOLSS will lead to a single
informationplatformdesigned and                                    processing institution (MOLSS)
piloted.                                                            for data andinformationto support
                                                                    informationneeds o f the PTH.




                                                   30

    I




2
*4
0



P
s
kI
*B I
L



E l


E l

e    U    U

          m
          m
I




     J

                              Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                              TURKEY: HealthTransition Project

This project is designed to support the Government to implement its Program for Transformation
inHealth, and as such its components are designed and sequenced to correspond and contribute
directly to PTH's eight main objectives. The overall objective o f the program is to improve the
governance, efficiency, user and provider satisfaction and long-term sustainability o f the
healthcare system inTurkey. The program will be implemented intwo phases, each with its own
objectives. Phase Iwill be o f a duration o f about three years, and geared towards the institutional
restructuring o f the M O H for more effective stewardship, whereas Phase 11,which is expected to
last about four years, will mostly involve the large-scale implementation of the family medicine
model and the establishment o f the infostructure for both health and social security. Below i s a
detailed description o fproject components.


By Component:

Project Component A - Restructuring the MOH for Effective Stewardship (Base Cost of 
9.60 million)

This component will assist the MOH to redefine its roles and responsibilities and complete its
institutional transformation fiom a mainly provider o f services to a policy maker andregulator o f
service provision, while retaining key public health functions, including disease prevention and
health promotion. The component has four sub-components, namely: (i)         restructuring MOH and
building its capacity to lead the sector, especially with regards to health and healthcare policy
design and development, and the necessary legal and regulatory support, and capacity building;
(ii) establishment o f a regulatory agency for pharmaceuticals and devices which are increasingly
becoming o f concern as major expenditure items, but also because o f their inappropriate use; (iii)
a new agency for quality control and assurance, and the accreditation o f health facilities (both
public and private hospitals, laboratories, out-patient clinics, pharmacies, etc; and (iv)
establishment o f a new MAE agency within the MOH to track progress with the implementation
o f the PTH, but also to become the key unit to provide key evidence in line with MOH's revised
mandate and functions. Consequently, the scope and nature o f the activities will encompass
organizational restructuring, setting-up o f new units, training o f MOH personnel and public
information campaign. MOHwill be the implementing agency.

A.1. Restructuring o fthe MOH (Base Cost of 3.12 million). This sub-component will support
the reorganization o f the functional and administrative structure o f the MOH; provide executive
management and in-service training; build its strategic planning capacity; and design a public
awareness campaign. It will finance consultant services for organizational change, capacity
assessment and public information campaign and both external and intemal training o f
managerial staff.

A.2. Establishment o f the National Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (Base Cost o f
 2.14 million. This sub-component will support development o f the legislative and regulatory
framework; in-service training o f new staff; procurement o f startup equipment and furniture;
identifying equipment needs and revision o f the technical specifications for the main quality


                                                 34

assurance and control laboratory; and carrying out environmental impact assessment. The
equipment itselfwill be procured inPhase I1(to be cost separately). It will finance purchase o f
office equipment; consultant services for organizational set up and identification of training
needs and technical specifications for equipment; and both external and internal training o f
Agency staff.

A.3. Oualitv Assurance and Accreditation o f Health Facilities (Base Cost of  2.59 million).
This sub-component will support the development of an accreditation and licensing system;
establishment o f a new Unit within the MOH; public information o f the roles and functions o f
the Unit; identification o f in-service training needs; and accreditation o f the National Hygiene
Laboratory. It will finance procurement o f limitedamount o f equipment, consultant services to
set up the new Accreditation System and its Unit, and training of Unit and Hygiene Laboratory
personnel.

A.4. Establishing;Monitoring and Evaluation Capacity (Base Cost o f  1.74 million). This sub-
component will support development o f a Monitoring and Evaluation Framework for the
Program for Transformation inHealth; establish a Unit within the M O H and develop its human
resources capacity. Itwill finance consultant services and local and foreign training.

Project Component B - Building Capacity of the Health Insurance and Social Security
Institutions(Base Cost of 3.00 million)

This component will assist MOLSS to carry out technical work to assess and project UHI
medium- and long-term costs and revenues, build the actuarial basis for revenue and cost
projections, strengthen institutional capacity for strategic purchasing and contracting; develop
new provider payment systems for family physicians andhospitals; complete the legislative and
regulatory requirements to set up the NHIF;andtrain its staff on various health insurance related
functions and tasks in line with their new functions, roles and responsibilities. It will finance
consultant services for the needed technical assistance, namely, institutional design o f the NHIF,
actuarial analysis to assess fiscal sustainability; estimation o fpremiumrates, deductibles and co-
payments; identification o f eligibility/exclusion criteria; and definition o f the minimum service
package.

Once the necessary legislative work i s complete and the new social security law i s enacted
MOLSS will embark on a major restructuring which will realign its organizational structure
along functional lines (health, unemployment, pension and social assistance). This new setup
will introduce administrative autonomy to each agency with its own management board, and
prevent transfer o f funds from one to another for deficit reduction. Therefore this component
also includes technical assistance for the social security reform in general, as it pertains to UHI
and the NHIF which will be carried out in accordance with the conditionality o f the proposed
PPSAL operation. Accordingly, it will also finance assessment of human resources and skills
mix needs and preparation o f training programs and packages. MOLSS will be the responsible
implementingagency




                                                   35

Project Component C - Reorganizing the Delivery of Healthcare Services (Base Cost of 
15.67million)

This component will assist M O H to design, develop and pre-test new organizational models for
service delivery by (i) introducing the tenets o f family medicine as the basis for the provision o f
outpatient or primary health care services; (ii)   doing away with the distinction between MOH
and SSK hospitals and eventually making them autonomous; and (iii)         building a new patient
referral mechanism to reactive system hierarchy. Such a change can only be executed gradually,
and will require cooperation and collaboration o f the two line ministries and the cooperation of
various stakeholders (professional associations, trade unions active in the health sector,
associations o fprivate health institutions, hospitals and insurance companies). A fourth and final
sub-component will focus mostly on population health programs, namely maternal and child
health, tobacco control, NCDs, etc., to help Turkey reach the related MDGs. The scope and
nature o f the activities will include technical assistance for in-service training, licensing and
institutionalizationo f family medicine; design o f a capitation-based reimbursement scheme; and
possibly low interest loans to prospective family physicians to set up and refurbishtheir practice
settings. The latter may include capital investmentto upgrade family practitioners' offices and
equipment, hardware and software procurement for cost accounting and health information
network requirements. Because o f the nature o f the reform, pilot sub-projects will be carried out
to test the various models to ensure that the new set-up inthe provision and financing o f health
care services, i.e., family medicine, hospital autonomy, and referral system, i s functionally
integrated, including the proposed infostructure. This component will be carried out by the
MOH.

C.l. Introducing Family Medicine for Primary Health Care (Base Cost o f  9.98 million). This
sub-component will support the design and development o f a family medicine based primary
health care organization, including definition o f task profiles for family physicians, piloting the
model in a few cities; and identifying resource needs for full-scale implementation.         Such a
model entails family physicians working intheir private settings and beingpaid on a capitation
basis. It is hoped that the model would streamline patient referral thus leading to more
appropriate care, reduced patient load inhospitals and elimination o f bottlenecks inthe referral
hierarchy.

Such an organizational change require financial and technical support in both the design and
implementation phases and could include, on the formal training side, review of curriculum,
certification standards and institutionalizationo f family medicine and, on the organization side,
legal and regulatory framework for contracting out and change in the mode o f payment,
definition of the standards in terms o f optimal number o f familiedpatients on family doctors'
lists, services which need to be paid on a fee-for-service basis to ensure total coverage (e.g.,
immunization, ante-natal care, etc.), pricing o f per capita based payment, and possibly low
interest loans to prospective family physicians to set up and refurbishtheir practice settings. It
will finance technical assistance for system design, training of physicians in pilot areas, actual
piloting, andpublic informationcampaign.




                                                  36

C.2. Autonomization o f Public Hospitals (Base Cost of 2.89 million). This sub-componentwill
support development of a autonomous hospital model; assessment of the current financial and
management capacity o f the public hospitals; development o f accounting and performance
monitoring models; training of managerial cadre; projection o f future resource needs; and
development o f a financing plan. This sub-component will mainly finance consultant services
and local and foreign training.

C.3. Developing an Effective Referral System (Base Cost o f  0.29 million). This sub-
component will support the design and development o f a registration system for referral and
counter-referral; identificationo f the guidelines for patient referral andthe incentive mechanisms
for compliance. It will also determine the roles and responsibilities of the family physicians and
assess their training needs. It will finance consultant services andtraining activities.

C.4. Strengthening Population Health (Base Cost o f  2.50 million). This sub-component will
support assessment of health and service needs and the resources required to meet them;
establishment o f a small grant program for community-based initiatives; strengthen the disease
surveillance system; and carry out innovative school- and community-based child health and
tobacco control initiatives.     It will finance consultant services for needs assessment and
surveillance system setup, a small grants program and its public awareness campaign, and
training activities.

Project Component D - Strengthening Human Resources Capacity (Base Cost of  8.72
million)

This component aims at strengtheningthe competencies o f future family practitioners and other
allied health professionals, including healthcare managers. It will also support the re-activation
o f the school o f public health which will act as an advisory and training institutionto MOH, and
fulfill the functions of training, research and consultancy covering the topics of public health,
health policies and strategies, health services management and health financing and economics.
This component will beimplementedbythe MOHandthe MOLSS.

D.l. Health and Social Security HumanResources Policy and Planning (Base Cost of  1.30
million). This sub-component will support establishment o f an interdepartmental working group;
technical work for long term human resources needs projections and identification o f training
needs and other development needs. Itwill mainly finance technical assistanceto carry out these
activities.

D.2. Strengthening the School o f Public Health (Base Cost of  7.42 million).              This sub-
component will support the development o f the capacity o f the SPH to conduct training courses
inthe field of health management and administration, health economics and financing, rational
use of drugs, flagship programs, epidemiological intelligence service and population health;
establishment o f a training facility and library within the School o f Public Health. It will finance
procurement of equipment, librarymaterial, consultant services for curriculum development and
trainingmodules for eachdiscipline and training activities.




                                                  37

Project Component E - Building Infostructure for Health and Social Security (Base Cost of
 15.13 million)

This component aims at building and expanding the information platform, network and user
endpoints for all o f the four social security agencies. DuringPhase I, scope and nature o f the
                                                                       the
activities will encompassdesign, development and piloting o f the "infostructure", and training of
cadres. The pilotingof the "infostructure" will be alignedwith the piloting o f the sub-projects in
Component C to ensure a fully integrated system.

E.l. Buildingthe HealthInformation System (Base Cost of 6.71 million). This sub-component
will support the development of data architecture andplatform; system design; development and
pilot testing o f software; and assessment o f training needs. Procurement o f all IT equipment will
be carried out inPhase 11. The sub-component will finance MOH's limitedequipment needs for
pilot testing, consultant services for system and software design and local and foreign training.
E.2. Buildingthe Social Security Information System (Base Cost of  8.42 million). This sub-
component will support the development of data architecture and platform; system design;
development and pilot testing of software; and assessmento f training andresource needs for the
social security system. Procurement o f all IT equipmentwill be carried out inPhase11. The sub-
component will finance MOLSS's limited equipment needs for pilot testing, consultant services
for system and software design, development and local and foreign training.

Project Component F- Project Management (Base Cost of  2.60 million). This component
will support the establishment and functioning o f the PMSU and the two PIUS, technical and
oversight work o fthe IAWGandIASC and the hiringo f a Project Management Consulting Firm.
It will finance consultant services, workshops, publication and dissemination activities and
training o fprojectmanagement staff.




                                                   38

                                          Annex 5: Project Costs
                                 TURKEY: Health Transition Project

                                Project Cost Summary by Component
                                                 ( Million)

             Component and/or Activity                      Local       Foreign           Total

A. Restructuringthe MOHfor Effective
    Stewardship
  1. Restructuring o fthe MOH                                 2.43         0.70            3.12
  2. Establishment of the NPMDA                               0.59          1.55           2.14
  3. Quality Assurance and Accreditation of Health
       Facilities                                             1.54          1.06           2.59
  4. EstablishingMonitoringand Evaluation Capacity            0.71          1.03           1.74

B. BuildingCapacity ofthe HealthInsuranceand                  0.82         2.18            3.00
    Social Security Institutions

C. Reorganizingthe Delivery of Healthcare Services
  1. IntroducingFamily Medicine for Primary Health
       Care                                                   9.09          0.89           9.98
  2. Autonomization o fPublic Hospitals                       2.48          0.41           2.89
  3. Development of an Effective Referral System              0.13          0.17           0.29
  4. Strengthening PopulationHealth                           2.10          0.40           2.50

D. Strengthening HumanResourcesCapacity
   1. Health and Social Security Human Resources              0.64          0.66            1.30
       Policy andPlanning
  2. Strengthening the School o fPublic Health                4.33          3.09            7.42

E. BuildingInfostructure for Healthand Social
    Security
   1. Buildingthe HealthInformationSystem                     3.05          3.66            6.71
  2. Buildingthe Social Security Information System           4.44          3.98            8.42

F. ProjectManagement                                          1.63          0.97            2.60
Total Baseline Cost                                          33.95        20.75            54.70
 Physical Contingencies                                       3.14          2.05            5.19
 Price Contingencies                                          0.57          0.30            0.88
                                     Total Project Costs'    37.66        23.10            60.76
                                              Front-endFee                  0.49            0.49
                               Total Cost to be Financed     37.67        23.59            61.26
(Totals may not add-up due to rounding errors.)

'Identifiable taxes and duties are  6.78 million, andthe total project cost, including taxes andthe
front-end fee, i s  61.26 million. The share oftaxes inthe project cost is estimated at 11%.




                                                      39

                             Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                              TURKEY: HealthTransitionProject

The program will be implemented jointly by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labor
and Social Security. The existing Inter Agency Steering Committee (IASC) will remain in
force, and will be responsible for project oversight, inter-agency coordination at the national
level and overall performance. The IASC will be chaired by a designate of the MOH and will be
composed o f six senior officials, one representative from each SPO and the Treasury, and two
from each MOH and MOLSS, the key implementing agencies involvedinthe project. The IASC
will also be responsible for ensuring the achievement o f project goals, and review of project
progress in line with the objectives of the PTH. The IASC should meet at least four times a year
duringproject implementation.

In addition, a National Advisory Board (NAB) will be set up from nationally reputable
academidexperts and will include no more than seven members. The NAB will be chaired by
the Minister of Health, andwill meet 2-3 times a year on matters related to MOH's own Program
for Transformation in Health and its linkages with the HTP (TORs to be defined). Technical
Working Groups (TWGs) will address technical issues such as preparation of TORs, review of
proposals and technical advice and assistance to the IASC and the Project Manager. Each TWG
will be composed of up to five experts, either from Ministry staff, or from outside, as needed
(TORSto be defined).

A ProjectManagementSupportUnit (PMSU) headedbya ProjectManagerwith appropriate
qualifications and experience will be jointly appointed by the MOH and the MOLSS. The
P M S Uwill be located inthe MOH, andwill have the overall fiduciary responsibilities for project
implementation. The P M S U will be accountable to the IASC inproject management with TORs
satisfactory to the Bank.

Besides the Project Manager, the P M S U will comprise: (i)    a FinancialManagementSub-unit,
composed of three MOH staff, a financial management coordinator, with overall oversight on all
financial management activities, an accountant, and a disbursement officer; (ii)
                                                                               two procurement
specialists, a civil servant ProcurementCoordinator, with oversight on all procurement inboth
ministries, and responsible for overall project procurement, and a consultant Procurement
Specialist; (iii)  two IT specialists, one I T integrator, in charge of ensuring harmonization
between the two MOH infostructure development and piloting, and an IT assistant (both
consultants, TORs to be defined); (iv) a Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, to be solely in
charge of all aspects of project's monitoring and evaluation (TOR to be defined); (v) two
translators; (vi) two administrative officers; and (vii) two team assistants.

A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established by each Ministry and will be
responsible for procurement, disbursement, and accounting for ministerial level activities. Each
PTU will have five staff, a Project Officer, a Procurement Officer, a Financial Management
Officer and two team assistants, all civil servants. Each PIU will coordinate its fiduciary
hnctions with the respective P M S Uprocurement and financial management coordinators.




                                                 40

An Inter Agency Working Group (IAWG), composed o f six technical staff from both
Ministries will be appointed for full time technical support to Project Manager. The IAWG will
be responsible for the preparation o f workplan, timing of activities, TORS,etc., in coordination
with the focal points in the TWGs, as appropriate, and with technical support from the
ManagementConsultantFirm(TOR to be defined) to be hiredunderthe project.


                            ProjectManagementOrganizationalChart




                r----------                                     -----------I
               1I                                                               I
                                                                                 I



          ProjectOfficer
        ProcurementOfficer
          FinanceOfficer


                        \ '.




    Legend:


               Coordination




                                                41

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                             TURKEY: HealthTransitionProject

                              ProjectFinancialManagement

Summary of Financial ManagementArrangements

The table below summarizes the findings andobservations o fthe assessment o fthe adequacy and
readiness o f the project financial management arrangements at Board (please see the detailed
report on file). Insummary, the current financial managementarrangements for the project meet
the minimum Bank requirements. An Action Plan to bring the arrangements that were not fully
satisfactory to the Bankhas also been agreedwith the PMSU.




                                                         30,2004.
  OVERALLFMRATING                   Satisfactory

Country Issues
A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Turkey was carried out in 2001.
The CFAA report identifiedmajor weaknesses inthe Turkishfinancial accountability, inboththe
public and the private sector. The CFAA concludes that to ensure that Bank funds are used for
their intendedpurposesring-fenced financial management arrangementsare more appropriate for
the implementation o f Bank-financed investment projects rather than relying upon government
systems.
InDecember 2003, the National Assembly enactedthe public financialmanagement and control
law which establishesthe legal framework for harmonizingand modernizingbudgetary practices
across all government agencies.        It will reduce fragmentation and provide for a more
comprehensive presentation of the budget. The law which will come to force in January 2005
will also allow for future decentralization offinancial controlto spendingagencies.

There has also been an initiative to introduce modified accrual accounting in compliance with
GFS requirements. However this took more time to complete than initially envisaged. Based in


                                                 42

part on the experiences fkom the pilots, the revised timetable for the accounting reform i s as
follows: (i) introduce modified accrual accounting in consolidated budget entities in 2004; (ii)
begin introduction of the full accrual basis in entities outside the consolidated budget in 2004;
and (iii)introduce full accrual accounting for consolidated budget entities by 2007. The
government accounting standards board to be established through the PFMC law will be
responsible for transforming the framework standards included in the accounting regulation into
full-fledged accounting standardsover time.

Audits of most Bank-financed projects in Turkey are camed out by the Treasury Controllers
(TCs).
                                        R I S KANALYSIS

                                                Risk                    Comments

INHERENTRISK




Risk mitigation strategy

 The changes in national financial accounting rules and practices mentioned above are not
 expected to affect HTP's financial management, at least inthe short run. The integration o f the
 project accounting into Government's accounting will be considered at a macro level and will
 not be within the scope of HTP. Therefore inorder to compensate for the weaknesses identified
 inthe CFAA, the projectwill becontrolled andaccounted for by a separateProject Management
 andSupport Unit.

 Implementing Entity

 The project implementation will be carried out by the M O H and MOLSS. A PIU will be
 established by each Ministry, and will be responsible for daily implementation o f the project,


                                                43

including procurement, disbursement of counterpart funds and accounting for ministerial level
activities. Overall project coordination will be carried out by the PMSU. The PMSU will have
the fiduciary responsibilities for overall project implementation and will be accountable to the
IASC who will be responsible for project oversight, interagency coordination at the national
level and overall performance. The PMSUwill be headedby a Project Manager with appropriate
qualifications and experience.

The PMSU will have the following sub-units: (i)         Financial Management Sub-Unit (FMSU);
staffed with a financial coordinator, an accountant and a disbursement officer, and will be
responsible for all project financial management activities. The FMSUwill have oversight on all
financial management activities carried out by their counterparts at the PIUS;(ii)   Procurement
Sub-Unit (PSU) will have oversight on all procurement activities in both ministries and be
responsible for overall project procurement; (iii)  Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-Unit (MESU)
will be appointed to be solely incharge o f all aspects o fproject's monitoringand evaluation.

Funds Flow

There will be one Special Account for the project at the Central Bank o f Turkey. All payments
to the contractors, suppliers and consultants will be made from this Special Account with the
authorization o f the Project Manager and the Financial Coordinator o f the FMSUbased on the
payment orders o f the implementingministries. Payments will be made directly from the loan
account for amounts over 20% o fthe authorized special account allocation.

Usingthe project funds (both Bank financed andcounterpart financed) depends onhavingyearly
allocations in the general government budget. These funds could be used only after they are
made available by the Ministryo f Finance. The responsibility for ensuring that sufficient funds
are provided in the institutions budget belongs to each ministry. The payments for the
counterpart finds will be made directly bythe MOF's payment office at the implementing entity.
The FMSUwill get a copy of the payment document relating to the counterpart finds so that
they are includedanddocumented inthe overall project accounting.

The PMSU could authorize the payment from the special account only after the approval of the
MOF's Payment Office at the spending institution. The financial officers at the PIUs will be
responsible for obtainingthe approval o f the MOF Payment Office at their respective ministries.
They will then send a payment order to the PMSU to initiate the payment from the special
account. The PMSU will have the overall responsibility for the management of the special
account and will make the required payment from the special account based on the approval of
the spending institution and the MOF payment office. The PIUs will be given a copy o f the
payment documents and the PMSUwill make the required accounting entries into the financial
management system.

There i s already an allocation o f US$ 2 million and o f US$ 1 million for the HTP inthe 2004
budgetsofthe M O H andthe MOLSS, respectively.




                                                 44

The PMSU under the direct responsibility o f the IASC will work as a specialized organizational
unit of MOH and will act as a service provider to the implementingentities. The Financial
Management Sub Unit o f the PMSU will have a Financial Coordinator, a Disbursement Officer
andan Accountant. The TORSfor these positions are attached to the assessmentreport.

Given the fact that there already is a Project Coordination Unit at the MOH for the on-going
Health I1project, the PMSU will operate inthe same premises, and benefit from the roll-over of
the fiduciary system and procedures into its own management. As the current P C U staff do not
have the requiredqualifications and the experience needed to assume the fiduciary responsibility
under the HTP, they would have to receive training on World Bank financial management
procedures. Moreover, a Financial Officer needs to be assigned on a full time basis.

Accounting Policies and Procedures

The project accounting will be maintained separately within the PMSU and will be on a cash
basis.  The Health I1 PCU has a computerized Financial Management Information System
(FMIS) capable of recording project transactions by project components, disbursement
categories and sources o f funds.       Different modules within the FMIS could be used for
accounting for more than one project, with some minor software updates.

The PMSUhas hireda short-term consultant to ensure that all financial and accounting aspects of
HTP are satisfactorily administered.      The consultant has developed the Chart o f Accounts
(COAs) suitable for HTP and will install the COAs into the current computerized financial
management system by April 30,2004. The system willalso generate the quarterly FMRs.

The consultant has prepared the draft Financial Management Manual for the project. The
Manual includes: (a) the financial management system o f the project including the accounting
and auditing policies; (b) the role o f the financial management system in the project
implementation; (c) the accounting arrangements for the project, including the format and
contents o fthe project reporting; (d) the auditing arrangements; and (e) budgeting andplanning.

Internal Audit

The newly enacted Public Financial Management Law (PFMC) requires establishment o f an
intemal control unit in each ministry.       The internal control unit in each ministry will be
established after an Internal Control Coordination Board is established and designated internal
controllers are certified by the Board. These articles o f PFMC become effective on January 1,
2005. However, at present there is not an intemal control department which carries regular
audits o f the departments in either Ministry and therefore no reliance will be placed on intemal
audit .




                                                 45

Reporting and Monitoring

The PMSU will maintain records and ensure appropriate accounting for the hnds provided.
Financial statements for the project will be prepared by the PMSU. The Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs) will be prepared quarterly, and will be submitted to the Bank no later than 45
days after the end o f the quarterly period.

The FMRswill be submittedwith a cover letter explaining the activities ofthe quarter andwill
include the following tables:

        Statement o f Sources andUses ofFundsby categories;
        Statement o f Sources andUses ofFundsby Project Components;
        Special Account Statement;
        A detailed schedule for tracking disbursements against specific consultancy contracts.
        The data to be included inthis report will be agreed during negotiations. It is expected
        that the monitoring and evaluation department o f the PMSU will be responsible for the
        preparation o fthis report andthe PMSUwill provide the requiredfinancial data; and
    w   Procurement reports. It i s expectedthat the Procurement department o f the PMSUwill be
        responsible for the preparation o f procurement reports and the FMSU will provide the
        requiredfinancial data.

The financial accounting software will be capable of producing the financial reports of the
FMRs. The first draft financial reports using dummy data, satisfactory to the Bank will be
preparedbythe PMSUby April 30,2004.

Information Systems

The existing accounting software that i s used successfully by other PIUs in Turkey. Due to
staffing problems, the PCU has not been able to use the software satisfactorily for the last two
years. Currently the staff in the financial management department o f the PCU are receiving
training on the software. The same software will be used for HTP and the consultant who is
responsible for the customization o f the software for HTP will also provide continuedtraining to
the financial management staff. It i s also required that the contract with the consultant will cover
maintenanceo f the systemfor at least one year after customization is completed.

Strengths and Weaknesses

The main strength of the project financial management system is the centralization of all
payments and their accounting at the PMSU in the project design. This will reduce the main
weakness of the project which is having for the first time a new implementingagency, MOLSS,
with no prior history of Bank financing, and establishing a PIU therein with no previous
experienceinBank procedures.




                                                 46

Action Plan

At present, the financial management arrangements for the project satisfy the Bank's minimum
requirements. The following action plan i s proposed to address the issues that are not yet
completed.:

                             Action                                       Deadline
1. Consultant withTOR satisfactory to the Bankwill be                       Done
   hired for setting up a financial managementsystemat the
   PMSU.
2. The current financial management software will be                    April 30,2004
   customized for HTP
3. Draft FMRswill bereceived from the financial                         April 30,2004
  management software
4. A full time financialperson will start working at the                    Done


Supervision Plan

During project implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's financial management
arrangements as follows: (i) Project's quarterly financial management reports as well as
                               review
its annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (ii)during
supervision missions, review the project's financial managementanddisbursement arrangements
to ensure compliance with the Bank's minimum requirements. As required, a Bank-accredited
FinancialManagement Specialist will assist inthe supervision process.

B. Audit

Annual project financial statements for the project will be audited bythe Treasury Controllers in
accordancewith International Standardson Auditing (ISA) and under TOR that i s cleared bythe
Bank.

C.Disbursement Arrangements

The loanproceedswillbedisbursed over aperiodofthree years, under the Bank's traditional
procedures including SOEs, direct payments and special commitments.

Becauseo fthe uniquenature ofthe Pilot sub-projects, full documentation will be required for all
disbursementunderthis disbursementcategory.

Table 6 sets forth the Categories o f items to be financed out o fthe proceeds o fthe loan, the
allocation o f amount of loanto eachcategory andthe percentageo f expenditures for items so to
be financed ineachcategory.




                                                  47

                                               Table 6

                                   Allocationof Loan Proceeds
                                              (EURO)
                                       Amount ofthe Loan
            Category                        Allocated            YOofExpendituresto beFinanced
                                      (ExpressedinEURO)

(1) Goods
    (a) under Parts A, B, C, D.1, E            2,050,000         100%foreign expenditures, 100% of
        andF ofthe Project                                       local expenditures(ex-factory cost),
    (b)underPartD.2                              350,000         and 85% of localexpenditures for
                                                                 other itemsprocuredlocally

(2) Consultant Services                       23,750,000                         78%

(3) Training                                  15,650,000                        100%

(4) PopulationHealthGrants                     1,630,000              100%of amount disbursed
    underPartC.4 ofthe Project

(5) Pilotsub-projectsunderPart                   700,000                         80%
    C.l, 2,3, andPartE ofthe
    project

(6)IncrementalOperatingCosts
    (a) under PartsA, B, andFo f                 500,000                         80%
        the Project
    (b) underPartD.2 ofthe                       160,000                         50%
        Project

(7) Fee                                          494,000

(8)Unallocated                                 4,126,000
TOTAL                                         49.400.000

D.SpecialAccount

The GOTwill open and maintain a Special Account inEuro at the Central Bank of Turkey. The
Special Account will be used following procedures to be agreed with the Bank, andwill have an
authorized allocation of 4.0 million. The Project Coordinator and the Financial Manager will
be authorized to sign the withdrawal applications, with two signatures required. At the start of
the project, the initial deposit will be limited to 42 2.0 million, and the remaining portions o f the
authorized allocations will be requested only after cumulative disbursements from the loan reach
a level of  10.0 million. The minimum application size for payments directly from the Loan
Account for issuance o f Special Commitments is 20% of the Special Account authorized
allocation.




                                                  48

Applications for replenishment o f the SA will be submitted to the Bank on a monthly basis, or
when the balance o f the SA is equal to about half o f the initial deposit or the authorized
allocation, whichever comes first, and will include a reconciled bank statement as well as other
appropriate supporting documents.

Use of Statements o f Expenditure (SOEs): the disbursements will be made against SOE for: (i)
goods costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract, except the first contract under IS
andNS; (ii)  consulting contracts with firms, costing less than US$ 200,000 equivalent each; (iii)
consulting contracts with individual, costing less than US$ 50,000 equivalent each; (iv) training,
population health grants and incremental operating expenses, costing less than US$ 100,000
equivalent each. Full documentation in support o f SOEs shall be retained by the PMU for at
least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made. This information shall be made available for
review during supervision by Bank staff and for annual audits which will be required to
specifically comment on the propriety o f SOE disbursements and the quality of the associated
record-keeping.




                                                49

                                      Annex 8: Procurement
                              TURKEY: HealthTransition Project

Procurement

Procurement o f goods and technical services will be done in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines: Procurement under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995,
revised January and August 1996, September 1997, January 1999).               Consulting Services,
technical assistance and training would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines -
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised
September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents,
Request for Proposals and Forms o f Consultants' Contract will be used. A General Procurement
Notice (GPN) will be published inthe U.N.Development Business inMay 2004.

The PMSU will have the fiduciary procurement responsibilities including monitoring,
supervision and reporting.     Aside from the Project Manager and Financial Coordinator, a
Procurement Coordinator, together with a Procurement Officer, will oversee all procurement in
both ministries. Each of the PIUs established inthe ministries will have their own procurement
officer who will coordinate the fiduciary functions with the PMSU's procurement coordinator.
These PIUS' procurement officers and the PMSU procurement coordinator will have TORS
satisfactory to the Bank. The minimum TOR requirements for the procurement consultant will
be "to be familiar and experienced with World Bank procurement guidelines andprocedures, and
procurement under internationally financed projects".

The civil servants assigned for procurement in the implementing agencies will be sent to a
training program, preferably to a program conducted by the International Labor Office (ILO) in
Turin, Italy, according to their needs for further development o f procurement knowledge and
qualifications to ensure that all those involved in project implementation become familiar with
procurement procedures andrequirements under Bank-financed projects.

Ingeneral the PrUswill havethe followingresponsibilities:

        implementationo f the respective project components;
        implementationmonitoring, including compliance with the relevant Bankpolicies, and
        evaluation;
        developments o f Terms of Reference for the activities under their jurisdiction;
        preparationo fbiddingdocuments and contracts for works, goods andconsultancy
        services;
        evaluation of bids;
        signingo fthe contracts;
        monitoring andmanagement o f contracts
        certification and/or commissioning o f delivered products; and
        making payments to the contractors from their respective SA andproject accounts.




                                                50

Thresholds

The following thresholds are recommended. The aggregate amounts for each procurement
methoddiscussedbelow are showninthe footnotes to Table A:

(i)Goods and Equipment: Goods and equipment costing US$lOO,OOO and more will be
procured through ICB. Goods estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO each may be procured
through international shopping on the basis of three written quotations obtained from at least two
different countries, or through IAPSO of the United Nations Development Program. Small
contracts for supplies and minor equipment such as, but not limited to, fumiture, locally
manufactured IT hardware and software, stationeries, printingo f public campaign materials and
similar locallymanufactured or available goods estimated to cost less thanUS$50,000 eachmay
be procured under national shopping on the basis of three written price quotations obtained from
local suppliers. In the procurement o f IT hardware and software by IS or NS, when soliciting
bids, the firms operating in Turkey registered to the Bank's Web site should be solicited in
addition to the other available firms. The procurement o f software licenses andmedicalreference
materials may be conducted under direct contracting. The procedures set forth inparagraphs (a)
through (e) of Article 3.7 to the Guidelinesshall apply.

(ii)CivilWorks :There is no civil works inthe context ofthe project.

(iii)Consultant Services, TA and Training: Consultant's services will be selected in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines issued in January 1997 and revised in September 1997,
January 1999, and May 2002,          and for this project, will include Quality and Cost Based
Selections (QCBS), Consultant Qualifications (CQ), Least Cost Selection (LCS), and Individual
Consultants (IC). QCBS selection over US$200,000 will be advertised inDevelopment Business
on-line version DG-market (Gateway) and inlocalmedia (one newspaper o f national circulation,
or the official gazette, and/or electronic portal o f free access) from which a short list of six firms
will be drawn. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000, short lists may be based
solely on national firms unless international firms expressed interest. Assignments o f a standard
or routine nature where well established practices exist will be procured following the LCS
method. Contracts estimated at less than US$lOO,OOO each for technical assistance, preparation
and review o f concepts notes, legal advice, study tours, quality control, publicity campaigns and
similar activities agreedby the Bank will beprocured following the CQ. Individual consultants
will be selected in accordance with Part V of the Consultants Guidelines. Training for the
PMSUand PIU staff will be conducted in accordance with a biannual training program that the
PMSUandPIU will submit to the Bank for its agreementbefore implementation.

(iv) Incremental Operating Costs: The Loan will finance the incremental operations costs of
the PMSU, the PIUs and those incurred by the School o f Public Health, the National Advisory
Board and the Health Insurance Fund. These will be incurred in accordance with an annual
budget that the PMSU and the PIUs will prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval before
any expenditures are incurred. The operating costs o f the PMSU and PWs will cover office
equipment and supplies, utilities, communication, maintenance o f equipment at PMSU and PIU
offices, the cost o f advertisement for procurement under the Project, travel expenses,
accommodation and per diem during field trips of the above-listed agencies, workshops for


                                                  51

project launch and implementation, and subscription fees to international institutions; provided,
however, that such expenses shall have been previously budgeted in the MOH's and MOLSS's
annual budget.
Prior Review
The following prior review requirements would be applicable:
Goods
(a) All ICB packages.
(b) First IS, N S packagesunder eachcomponent ofthe Project.
(c) Each contract to be procured on the basis of direct contracting will be processed as follows:
(i) totheexecutionofthecontract,theBorrowershallprovidetotheBankacopyofthe
   prior
specifications and the draft contract for its approval; (ii)
                                                          the contract shall be awarded only after
the Bank's approval shall have been given.
Consulting Services
(c) Consulting Firms: For each contract estimated to cost $200,000 or more, all TORs, draft
RFPs, short lists, technical and financial evaluation reports, and negotiated draft contracts will
be submitted to the World Bank for itsprior review.
(d) Individual Consultants: All TORs, consultant's qualifications and experience, and draft
contracts, for consulting assignments above US$50,000 each.
Post Review
All contracts not subject to the Bank's prior review would be subject to ex-post review, on a
selective basis. One out o f five contracts for goods, works, technical services and consulting
services would be subject to ex-post review. Supervision missions would include a procurement
specialist especially in the first year, whose main responsibility would be to conduct ex-post
reviewso fthe procurement process anddocumentation, andprovide his or her findings.




                                                 52

                          Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
                                                      ( Million)
Category                                          ICB        NCB       Others'      N.B.F.      Total
1. Goods
                                                  2.06                 0.62                     2.68
                                                  (2.01)               (0.59)                   (2.60)
2. Services                                                            33.62        0.09        33.71
                                                                       (26.06)                  (26.06)
3. Training                                                             17.16                   17.16
                                                                       (17.16)                  (17.16)
4. PopulationHealthGrants                                               1.63                    1.63
                                                                       (1.63)                   (1.63)
5. Pilot sub-projects                                                  0.91                     0.91
                                                                       (0.73)                   (0.73)
6. RecurrentCost                                                        1.04        3.63        4.67
                                                                       (0.73)                   (0.73)
Total                                             2.06                 54.98        3.72        60.76
                                                  (2.01)               (46.89)                  (48.91)
Front-end Fee                                                                                   (0.49)
Loan Total                                                                                      (49.40)

 '`I     Figures in parentheses are the amounts to befinanced by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
         Includes goods to beprocured through shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of theproject
          management ofice, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs.

                  Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                      Contract Value                                        Contracts Subject to
                                         Threshold                  Procurement                 Prior Review
  Expenditure Category               (US$ thousands)                   Method                   (US$ millions)
 1.Works                                     NIA                          NIA                         N/A
 2. Goods                          >or equal to $100,000                  ICB                         2.47
                                         <$100,000                         I S                        0.30
                                         <$50,000                         N S                         0.50
                                         <$100,000                        DC                          0.42
 3. Services                       >or equalto $200,000                 QCBS                         41.23
                                        <$200.000                         LCS                         0.29
                                        <$100.000                         CQ                          0.30


'Total value of contracts subject toprior review: US$45.51 million (63% of the totalproject cost).
`Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High
`Frequency ofprocurement supervision missionsproposed: Once every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)




                                                        53

CapacityAssessment

Capacity o f the ImplementingAgencies inProcurement and Technical Assistance requirements

The MOH - PrcT will be responsible for implementingthe project components A, C, D.l, 0.2
and E.l. MOLSS-PIU will be responsible for implementing the project components B, D.l and
E.2. The MOLSS has no experience inWorld Bankprocurement. Although the MOHhas been
exposed to the World Bank procedures during the implementation o f the First Health and
Second Health Projects; the       procurement performance o f the Ministry was not fully
satisfactory to the Bank. Bothministries are considered limited concerning Bank's procurement
procedures. It has been agreed that a Management Consultant Firm will be engaged to assist
and support the civil servants working for the PIUs and the PMSU. There exists a concern in
launching the goods and consultant contracts until the supporting consultant firm employed
after the loan effectiveness which is estimated to take six to nine months. It is suggested to
employ a procurement specialist and an FMS for the P M S U and PIUs during this transition
period in order to support the public officers until the consultant firm is in place. The civil
servants to be assigned to the P M S U and PIUs should have proficiency in English language,
and be trained in World Bank procurement procedures particularly for goods and consultant
services.
The P M S U and the two PIUs will:
(i)appoint one procurement officer for each, with suitable educational background and
experience in procurement and familiarity with World Bank procurement guidelines before
loan effectiveness;
(ii) aworkshopwiththeBankforallcivilservantsinvolvedinprojectimplementation.
    launch
At the workshop, adequate time wouldbe spent onprocurement training, the procurement book
would be discussed and explained, and a half-day session would be held for those responsible
for procurement decision making under this project. Immediately after Board approval, the
Bank staff will prepare a procurement book containing all procurement related documents,
including Standard BiddingDocuments, both inhard and soft copies, and send it to the PMSU.
The contents o f the procurement book will be discussed during the project launch workshop;
and
(iii)establish a computerized procurement      monitoring system within six months of loan
effectiveness.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:
CountryProcurement Assessment Report dated June 2001.

Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions o f the first year ready by negotiations?
No.

Training, Informationand Development on Procurement

Estimateddate o fProject Launch Workshop: June 2004
Estimated date o f publicationo f General ProcurementNotice: May2004
Indicate ifthere i s procurement subject to mandatory SPN inDevelopmentBusiness: YES



                                               54

Domestic Preference for Goods: Yes
Domestic Preference for Works: N/A
Retroactive financing: No
Advanceprocurement: No
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: The PMSU and PIUs will establish a
computerizedprocurement monitoring system.
Co-financing: No

Procurement Staffing

Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the
Procurement inthe Project: IbrahimSirer, Sr. Procurement Specialist (ECSPS).




                                             55

                            Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis

                               TURKEY: HealthTransitionProject

Background

As noted extensively in the main body o f the document (see, for example, Sections Al, B3, B4
and D2) and in Annexes 1 and 3, the HTP supports the health reform initiatives o f the
Government o f Turkey as enunciated in the UAP and its sectoral spin-off, the Program for
Transformation in Health. The UAP outlines the key policy issues in the health sector and
targets all aspects o f health care and health systems, including financing, delivery, management
and organization. The comerstones o f the UAP are the separation o f provision and financing o f
health care so as to achieve a more efficient resource allocation and use; introduction o f
universal social health insurance so as to ensure equity and access to health services; financial
and administrative autonomy for public hospitals in order to improve efficiency and strengthen
management; introduction o f family medicine so as to integrate delivery of health care and
ensure continuity; and a special emphasis on maternal and child health. The goals o f the UAP
are beingrealized through a series o f focused measures o fthe government inthese key areas, and
the HTP is designed to support these measures in two phases spread over six years. Phase 1 o f
the HTP will provide support for: (i)    restructuring o f the MOH for effective stewardship; (ii)
design o f family medicine as a model for the provision o f primary health care services; (iii)
introduction of financial and managerial autonomy for public hospitals; (iv) establishment o f the
UHIfund; and (v) design ofthe "infostructure" for the health and social security system. This
phase is estimated to cost  49.40 million.       Subject to the passage o f laws related to UHI,
establishment o f all required social security agencies, infostructure for all social security
agencies being tested, and the family medicine model being developed and tested, Phase 11o f
HTP will be triggered, which will support full expansion o f family medicine, UHI, hospital
autonomy and computerization o f information system for health and social security.            The
economic analysis o f Phase Io fthe HTP is presented below.

EconomicAnalvsis


Methodology

Given the technical assistance and advisory support nature o f the activities in Phase I,
conventional cost benefit analysis or cost effective analysis are not considered the appropriate
tools for determining the economic rationale and need o f the proposed project. Further, even
though the benefits o f the project can be qualitatively substantiated, it is difficult to assign a
quantitative value, as such estimates as disability-adjusted-life-years (DALY) or quality-
adjusted-life-years   (QALY) cannot be determined without making very far-reaching
assumptions. For all these reasons, we use the approach developed by Devarajan, Squire and
Suthiwart-Narueput (DSS) and elaborated inHammer (1996), inwhich the economic rationale o f
a health project i s determined on the basis of: (i)identifying a rationale for public involvement
in the project; (ii)determining what would happen in the sector if the project were not
implemented; (iii)identifying the fiscal impact o f the project; and (iv) acknowledge the
fungibility o f resources and examine the incentives facing public servants. Accordingly, the



                                                 56

project components are briefly described below and are evaluated according to one or more of
the above-mentioned criteria.
ComponentA: Restructuring theMOHfor Effective Stewardship

MOH and MOLSS betweenthem control most financing and provision o f health care inTurkey.
They have facilities in the same towns and cities, conduct very similar kinds o f procedures, their
personnel enjoy the same civil servant status, and they are both core government ministries. Yet
there is almost no coordination among them. With insufficient demand for multiple providers
that offer the same range of services, especially in the smaller cities and towns, the net result is
that many hospitals are substantially underutilized, and investment made in buildings and
equipment is underused.

There is no doubt that both MOH and MOLSS have critical roles to play in the health care
system in the country, given their experience, their existing investments and their respective
influence inthe health sector. Yet, the present responsibilities and relationships, which result in
much duplication and waste in the use of resources, are the least efficient of all possible
configurations and need to be altered forthwith. It is widely agreed that improved stewardship
and policy-making should be the key functions of MOH, botho fwhich are given relatively low
priority at the moment. MOH is organized along specific vertical programs and specific service
delivery functions inprimary and secondary care, and tends to be absorbed inrunningday-to-day
curative services. As a result, it has neither developed the capacity to focus on policy making
and priority setting for the health sector, nor does it leave itself enough resources and time to
focus on quality monitoring and regulation, accreditation of institutions and licensing of
professionals, insurance regulation and oversight and leading public health functions and
epidemiological surveillance. Redefining the role and responsibilities of MOH and equipping it
carry out these functions are important prerequisites for sustaining a broad-based health sector
reform.

In sum, this component has very strong justification for public involvement.        If it were not
implemented, the result would be absence of coordination between agencies and ministries, and
absence of priority setting inplanning. The fiscal impact of this component is difficult to judge.
And finally, while it is difficult to judge whether the public servants will have the appropriate
incentives to effectively implement this measure, we do note that it is included inthe UAP and
PTH, which is likely provide the necessary support for committed implementation.

ComponentB: Building Capacity of the Health Insurance and Social Security Institutions

Despite the well-documented inefficiencies on the production and delivery side of the existing
health system in Turkey, government justification and rationale for continued and increased
involvement in health financing are very strong. Besides the general theoretical appeal of a
greater role for the government infinancing, the existing financial coverage for health in Turkey
provides a particularly compelling case for scaling-up of public efforts to ensure universal
coverage. At present, insurance coverage is provided through three social security institutions:
SSK, Bagkur and Emekli Sandigi, and through the Green Card program for those who do not
have the financial means to purchase health insurance through any of the above. Active civil
servants andtheir dependents are funded directly from general revenues. Private health insurance



                                                57

coverage in the country is small, reaching only about 500,000 people. This system o f insurance
leaves many without any coverage, and with inadequate coverage for many of those who are
nominally covered. Additionally, there are many who enjoy multiple sources o f coverage, either
by design or by circumstances. Health insurance is also a strong determinant o f seeking care
when ill,and those without any form o f financial protection are far less likely to seek care when
illrelativetothosewhodohavesomeformoffinancialprotection. Notallthosewhoareillare
able to get treatment for their illness; in particular, the poor are significantly more likely to not
get treatment when illcompared to the non-poor. The result is that there are huge disparities in
health outcomes, and the health status of Turkey's population remains poor, both in absolute
terms as well as incomparison with other countries at same levels ofincome.

An important first step toward providing financial coverage for health is the creation of a
universal health insurance fund that would integrate all functions and premium collections
related to health in the existing insurance agencies such as SSK, Bag-Kur and Emekli Sandigi.
Inaddition, thehealthinsurancefundwouldalso combine allother financialflows offundinthe
health sector, including budgetary support to MOH (except for public health care activities),
financial outlays for the existing Green Card program, and health expenditures of civil servants;
only annex budget flows to university hospitals will remain outside the health insurance fund.
Based on the principles of solidarity and risk pooling, all citizens o f the country will be covered
under health insurance, with the state making premium contributions on behalf of the indigent
and others unable to do so on their own behalf.

Insum, this component has very strong justification for public involvement.           If it were not
implemented, universal access to health services cannot be ensured. The fiscal impact of this
component is likely to be adverse in the short-to-medium term, considering that the increased
burden of insuring an estimated 22 million or so presently uninsured (ifthis estimate is, indeed,
accurate) will be high, irrespective of the level and scale of the measures adopted. And finally,
while it is difficult to judge whether the public servants will have the appropriate incentives to
effectively implement this measure, we do note that it is included inthe UAP and PTH, which i s
likely provide the necessary support for committed implementation.


Component C: Reorganizing theDelivery of Healthcare Sewices

(i)Introducing Family Medicine for Primary Health Care

There is general agreement among policy makers that, in principle, primary care should be the
basis of a well-designed and performance-focused health care system.             Well-designed and
functioning primary care system can contribute significantly to improving health and reduced
humansuffering byreducing epidemiological risks of avoidable illnesses and premature deaths,
and to alleviating poverty by minimizing lost production due to avoidable illnesses and
premature deaths. In addition, an effective primary care system can prevent the health system
from getting on to a high-cost trajectory in which enormous resources would be required for
treating preventable illnesses.

In practice, however, this is often not the case, simply because primary care is not
organizationally situated to have power and control over other levels o f care. Inmany countries,



                                                  58

as inTurkey, specialists tend to occupy a senior position inthe hierarchy o f medical specialists,
and primary care providers do not have the necessary standingto play a leading role inpatient
care and in delivery of basic health services. Any reform in the delivery of primary care would
have to start by improvingthe relative position o f primary care providers inboth the medical as
well as the patient community. In other words, in reaching appropriate health services to the
entire population in Turkey, primary care professionals would need to be given the necessary
levers to steer patient treatment, either in home-care setting or in the hospital setting, so as to
ensure integrationof the different health service delivery sectors.

One such way is by adopting the concept and practice o f "family medicine". Family medicine
physicians provide health services for the whole family, treating common illnesses across such
medicine domains as internal medicine, gynecology, pediatrics, prevention and health
propagation.     Patients are provided with diagnostic services, laboratory services, and
consultations, so that almost all services are provided under a "single-window" system. Family
medicine brings the physician and members o f a family into closer and more personal contact,
andredefines their relationship. The physician gets to know all members o fthe family and their
healthconcerns, andplays an important role intheir health education, preventionof diseases, and
generalbetterment o fhealth.

A common characteristic of major non-communicable diseases is their multi-factorial etiology,
and a few risk factors (smoking, dietary, obesity, sedentary lifestyles, excess alcohol
consumption, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and diabetes) account for the bulk o f heart
disease, stroke, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, common cancers, and accidents. For this
reason, population-based interventions that integrate action on risk factors for cardiovascular
diseases (e.g. smoking, diet) can have beneficial effect in the reduction o f other non-
communicable diseases (e.g. colon, lung cancers), and obtain economies in the cost o f health
care delivery. Family based medicine, with its emphasis on health promotion, prevention and
education, can provide the required integration of preventive efforts.       Treatment in family
practice i s based on complete and comprehensive diagnosis and not only depends on the
immediate illness, but also on the general patient profile as well as on the general population
profile.

In sum, this component has very strong justification for public involvement.              Existing
inefficiencies in the delivery side o f the health system would likely continue if it were not
implemented. As far as the fiscal impact o f this component is concemed, there i s potential for
some savings. And finally, while it is difficult tojudge whether the public servants will have the
appropriate incentives to effectively implement this measure, we do note that it is included inthe
UAP andPTH, which is likelyprovidethe necessarysupport for committed implementation.

(ii)Autonomization o fPublic Hospitals

The hospital sector in Turkey suffers from much inefficiency, and although some gains have
been achieved during the 1990s- average hospital occupancy rate increased from 53 percent in
the mid-1980s to 60 percent in 2000, while the average length o f stay dropped from 6.7 days in
1985 to 5.9 days in2000 - a large number o f hospitals remain substantially underutilized. There
are a large number o f facilities that are too small to allow for efficient operation and effective



                                                59

provision o f care. The occupancy ratio o f M O H district hospitals (generally hospitals with
below 50 beds in a district center) and o f M O H health center hospitals is particularly low and
they have very long bed turn over interval, indicating that there is little justification for these
small and rarely used hospitals. Many hospital managers lack the skills necessaryto effectively
carry out their job, and neither are they given any incentives to strive for efficiency
improvements at the facilities they manage.         The absence o f administrative and financial
autonomy, coupled with a budgeting system that largely ignores the actual amount o f services
provided substantially prevents hospital managers from undertaking steps to achieve efficiency
gains.

Healthsystem reforms inTurkey need to focus on improving hospitalefficiency, andwhile some
gains inefficiency can be brought about simplyby reducing the number o f hospital beds inmany
provinces, further gains will come about only by improving efficiency inthe use o fresources and
overall management and accountability. One way to achieve this i s by granting administrative
and financial autonomy to all public hospitals. It i s neither feasible nor desirable to simply
privatizepublic hospitals.

ComponentD: Strengthening Human Resources Capacity

The health care industry is one o f the largest employers in Turkey, and employs physicians,
nurses, dentists, pharmacists, psychologists, health services administrators, therapists, laboratory
and X-ray technicians, social workers, and other alliedhealth workers. Yet, there is no specific
Human Resources Management Program in the health sector in Turkey, and there i s no
consistent program of updating skills and training for new ones. Other problems include
inappropriate distribution o f health workers, low ratios o f non-physician health workers to
physicians, inadequate basic training o f the health workers for service, insufficient numbers o f
teachers and academicians in the professional schools, inadequate supply o f training materials,
low professional status o f non-physicianprofessionals, inadequate salaries, promotions unrelated
to performance, lack o f incentives for working in rural areas and underserved areas, centralized
health worker recruitment, inadequate staffing norms based on population and bed numbers
rather than workload, outdated legislation on the responsibilities and authority o f health
personnel, absence o f sufficient job descriptions, and inadequate coordinationand monitoring o f
in-service training programs. These problems assume even more serious implicationsinview o f
the widespread changes that the health sector reforms are likely to trigger, since both UAP and
PTH will result in broad-spectrum structural changes, not only in health sector financing,
management and organization, but also inthe delivery o f services and inthe interaction between
patients andproviders.

Inorder to improvethe capacity inthe health sector at all levels to provide the necessarysupport
and meet the demands o fthe ongoing reforms, this component will support the development and
strengthening o f a human resources policy to ensure that a flexible and responsive health
workforce is inplace to carry the benefits o f the reform to the people. Inaddition, the School o f
Public Health will be reinvigorated and strengthened to become a center o f excellence in
advocacy andtraining andresearchinthe MOH.




                                                 60

In sum, this component has very strong justification for public involvement. If it were not
implemented, the resulting disconnect between the training o f providers and demands o f the new
system after transformation would likely result in widespread patient discontent. The fiscal
impact o f this component i s difficult to judge. And finally, while it is difficult to judge whether
the public servants will have the appropriate incentives to effectively implement this measure,
we do note that it is included inthe UAPandPTH, which is likely provide the necessarysupport
for committedimplementation.

Component E: Building Infostructure for Health and Social Security

The development of a comprehensive information system i s the key to better management,
responsive policy makingand effective regulation. It will also enable the health insurance fund
to better fulfill its purchasing and regulatory functions, and will link the network o f health
providers to purchasers and appropriate regulatory institutions. This component will support the
development o f an infostructure strategy, including the development o f necessary supporting
legislation (related to mandatory exchange o f information, confidentiality, and privacy), and the
essential integration tools. It will facilitate the development o f standards, regulations and other
mechanisms to support the integration o f health information at all levels, so that common
definitions and data structures are usedand necessaryinformationcan be exchanged. It will also
support the development and creation o f a nationalhealth data center within M O H to collect and
analyze key health information from all health providers and the health insurance fund. This
development and integration o f the information system will support the policy making and
analysis role o f the MOH, inadditionto synchronization and standardization o f informationfrom
all other health sub-systems. The effective use of health information technology in all parts o f
the health care sector will ensure that highquality, consistent andtimely information i s provided,
both to support effective care and treatment as well as to inform management and decision-
makingprocessesat all levels.

Insum, this component hasvery strongjustification for public involvement. Ifnot implemented,
policy-making would likely remain uninformed and patient management would likely be
compromised. As far as the fiscal impact o f this component i s concemed, there is potential for
some savings in the long term. And finally, while it i s difficult to judge whether the public
servants will have the appropriate incentives to effectively implement this measure, we do note
that it is included in the UAP and PTH, which i s likely provide the necessary support for
committedimplementation.

Evaluation

To the extent possible, all o f the above components are evaluated against each o f the DSS
criteria, andthe results are summarized inthe table below. We note that it i s difficult tojudge the
fiscal impact o f Component A: Restructuring the MOH for Effective Stewardship; and
Component D: Strengthening Human Resource Capacity. At the same time, we note that the
fiscal impact of Component B: Building the Institutional Capacity of the Health Insurance Fund
i s likely to be adverse in the short-to-medium term, considering that the increased burden o f
insuringestimated22 million or so presentlyuninsured(ifthis estimate is, indeed, accurate) will
be high, irrespective o f the level and scale o f the measures adopted. An exercise carried out by



                                                   61

the Bank in collaboration with M O H andMOLSS finds that the introduction o f UHIwill require
additional state subventions of between 3,826 trillion TL and 6,462 trillion TL in 2002 prices,
depending on which other reform measures are adopted and implemented along with UHI. The
study concludes that final details pending, the introduction of UHI can be a fiscally viable
proposition only if there are marked improvements on the revenue side o f the social security
system inadditionto efficiency-enhancing reforms inthe health sector.

Overall, the results o f the economic analysis show that the project makes sound economic sense,
subject to the general caveats o f passage o f the necessary supporting legislation and sound
implementation of all the project components.


                          .-ija
                          u

                          a

                          B
                          -
                          L




                          m

                          .n
                          c)
                          m
                          L




Component



A: Restructuring the     Very strong       Absence o f coordination                Difficult to
MOHfor Effective         justification for between agencies and                    judge, but
Stewardship              public            ministries, and absence o f             measure
                         involvement       priority setting in                     supportedby
                                           planning                                UAPandPTH
B: Building Capacity     Very strong       Universalaccess will not    Very high   Difficult to
of the Health Insurance  justification for be ensured                  and adverse judge, but
and Social Security      public                                                    measure
Institutions             involvement                                               supportedby
                                                                                   UAPandPTH
C: Reorganizing the      Very strong       Existing inefficiencies     Potential   Difficult to
Delivery of Healthcare   justification for likely to continue          for savings judge, but
Services                 public                                                    measure
                         involvement                                               supportedby
                                                                                   UAPandPTH
D: Strengthening         Very strong       Disconnect between                      Difficult to
Human Resources          justification for providers training and                  judge, but
Capacity                 public            demands o fthe new                      measure
                         involvement       system after                            supportedby
                                           transformation likely to                UAPandPTH
                                           result inwidespread
                                           patient discontent
E: Building              Very strong       Policy making likely to     Potential   Difficult to
Infostructure for Health justification for remain uninformed;          for savings judge, but
and Social Security      public            patient management likely   inthe long  measure
                         involvement       to be compromised.          term        supportedby
                                                                                   U A P and PTH


                                                      62

 Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
TURKEY: HealthTransition Project


         Not Applicable




               63

                          Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision
                                TURKEY: HealthTransition Project

                                                           Planned                      Actual
PCNreview                                                                           09/22/2003
InitialPID to PIC                                                                   10/22/2003
InitialISDS to PIC                                                                   10/03/2003
Appraisal                                               03/15-26/2004              031'1 5-26/2004
Negotiations                                             04/7-9/2004                04/7-9/2004
Board/RVP approval                                        05/20/2004
Planneddate o f effectiveness                             07/05/2004
Planned date o fmid-termreview                            03/31/2006
Planned closing date                                      12/31/2007

Key institutions responsiblefor preparation of theproject:
MinistryofHealth, Turkey, includingSchoolofPublicHealth, MOH
MinistryofLabor andSocial Security, Turkey
StatePlanning Organization, Turkey
The Undersecretariat o f Treasury, Turkey

Bank staff and consultants who worked on theproject included:
Name                                               Title                                   Unit
EnisBaris                    Sr. Public Health Specialist, Team Leader                   ECSHD
MukeshChawla                         Sr. HumanDev. Economist                             ECSHD
Antonio Lim                                Operations Officer                            ECSHD
IbrahimAkcayoglu                           Operations Officer                            ECSHD
Nicole Klingen                            Sr. HealthSpecialist                           MNSHD
IbrahimSirer                          Sr. Procurement Specialist                          ECSPS
Ayse Seda Aroymak               Sr. Financial Management Specialist                       ECSPS
DilekBarlas                                   Senior Counsel                              LEGEC
Rohit R. Mehta                          Senior Finance Officer                            LOAGl
Jennifer Manghmang                          ProgramAssistant                              ECSHD
SelmaKaraman                                ProgramAssistant                              ECCU6
Daniel Kress                                  Peer Reviewer                              MNSHD
Christian Baeza                               Peer Reviewer                               LCSHD
Shiyan Chao                                   Peer Reviewer                               AFTH1

Bankfunds expended to date onproject preparation:
1. Bankresources:US$ 504,9003
2. Trust funds: US$338,538 spent or committedout o f a US$800,000 PHRD grant
3. Total: US$ 843,438
Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
1. Remaining costs to approval: US$25,000
2. Estimated annual supervision cost: US$ 100,000

 Including preparationcosts incurred prior to change o f Government (US$ 162,300).


                                                         64

                          Annex 12: Documents in the Project File

                           TURKEY: HealthTransition Project


A. Draft Project Implementation Plan

Project Implementation Plan, March 2004

B Bank Staff Assessments
 .

Proposal for PHRD Grant (January 24,2003)
PHRD Grant (TF051488)
PCNPackage (September 5,2003)
Minutes o f the PCNReviewMeeting (October 3,2003)
Statement o fMissionObjectives
Back-to-Office Reports, Aide Memoires andFollow-upLetters to the Government
Summary o f comments from Peer Reviewers
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Report No. #26756-TU, Oct. 3,2003)
Paper on Preparing for UniversalHealthInsurance inTurkey: Estimationo f CostsUnder
Different Scenarios (January 2004)

C. Others

Social Assessment Study (2003)
Report on the ConsensusBuildingConference (August 2003)
Concept Note on HealthTransition Project (June 2003)
MOH's Program for Transformation inHealth(June 2003)
Draft Law on UniversalHealthInsurance (2003)
Draft Law on Social Security Institutions (2003)
Draft Law on Ministryo f HealthRestructuring (2003)
Draft Framework Law on Public Administration (2003)




                                               65

                                         Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                                            TURKEY: HealthTransition Project

                                                                                                                  Differencebetween
                                                                                                                  expected and actual
                                                           Original Amount in US%Millions                           disbursements

Project ID    FY    Purpose                             IBRD        IDA       SF       GEF     Cancel.  Undisb.  Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO82801      2004   EXPFIN2                             303.10       0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   303.10     0.00        0.00
PO59872      2003   BASIC ED2 (APL #2)                  300.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   293.00   118.58        0.00
PO70286      2002   ARIP                                600.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   411.22   331.22        0.00
PO74408      2002   SRMP                                500.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   382.55   157.66        0.00
PO69894      2001   PRIV SOC SUPPRT                     250.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   159.28   122.78        0.00
PO44175      2000   BIODIV/NTRL RES MGMT (GEF)             0.00      0.00      0.00      8.19    0.00      5.86    3.37        0.00
PO68368      2000   MARMARA EARTHQUAKE EMG              505.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   300.13   299.93       52.70
                    RECON
PO68792       2000  ERL                                 759.60       0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   375.00   375.00      375.00
PO09073       1999  INDUSTRIAL TECH                     155.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00     55.12   55.12        0.00
PO09072       1998  PRIV OF IRRIGATION                    20.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00      1.82     1.82        1.82
PO48852       1998  NAT'L TRNSM GRID                    270.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   27.79   185.93   213.72        -3.60
PO08985       1998  CESMEWS & SEWER                       13.10      0.00      0.00      0.00     2.70     5.56     8.26        0.00
PO09076       1995  HEALTH 2                            150.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    20.17    27.03   52.76        52.76

                                                Total:  3,825.80     0.00      0.00      8.19    50.66 2,505.60 1,740.22     478.68




                                                             TURKEY
                                                      Statement Of IFC's
                                                HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                  InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                                                Committed                               Disbursed
                                                               IFC                                    IFC
         FY Approval          Company             Loan        Equity    Quasi     Partic.   Loan      Equity   Quasi    Partic.

         2001                 TurkishPEF          0.00         10.00     0.00       0.00      0.00     1.26     0.00       0.00
         1999                 Unye Cement          14.59        0.00     0.00       0.00     14.59     0.00     0.00       0.00
         1999                 Uzel                9.48          0.00     0.00       5.69      9.48     0.00     0.00       5.69
         Ol70171/98           Viking              8.18          0.00     0.00       0.00      8.18     0.00     0.00       0.00
         1995                 YalovaAcrylic       2.50          0.00     0.00        1.33     2.50     0.00     0.00       1.33
         1997198              Yapi Kredi Lease    0.48          0.00     0.00       0.00      0.48     0.00     0.00       0.00
         0                    ALease               1.11         0.00     0.00       0.00      1.11     0.00     0.00       0.00
         1998                 Adana Cement        2.50          0.00     0.00       0.00      2.50     0.00     0.00       0.00
         2001/03              Akbank              25.00         0.00     0.00       0.00     25.00     0.00     0.00       0.00
         0198                 Altematif Bank       1.11         0.00     5.00       0.00      1.11     0.00     5.00       0.00
         1995196/01103        Arcelik              17.21        0.00     0.00       0.00     17.21     0.00     0.00       0.00
         2000                 Arcelik LG Klima     13.79        0.00     0.00       4.72     13.79     0.00     0.00       4.72
         1994197102           Assan               25.00         0.00     0.00       0.00     25.00     0.00     0.00       0.00




                                                                  66

                                                       Committed                     Disbursed
                                                      IFC                          IFC
FY Approval            Company                Loan   Equity Quasi  Partic. Loan    Equity  Quasi   Partic.
2002                   Atilim                 6.50     0.00   0.00   0.00    5.49   0.00     0.00   0.00
2000                   Banvit                 15.00    5.00   0.00   0.00   15.00   5.00     0.00   0.00
0194196                BayindirbankA.S        0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2002                   Beko                   29.08    0.00   0.00  29.08   29.08   0.00     0.00   29.08
2001                   Bilgi                  11.oo    0.00   0.00   0.00   11.oo   0.00     0.00   0.00
                       Borcelik               10.00    3.21   0.00   0.00   10.00   3.21     0.00   0.00
1994/95/96/97
1995196                CBS BoyaKimya          0.00     0.65   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.65     0.00   0.00
1994                   CBS Holding            4.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    4.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1996101                CBS Printas            0.00     0.01   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.01     0.00   0.00
1992                   CayeliBakir            3.15     0.00   0.00   0.00    3.15   0.00     0.00   0.00
1990193102             Conrad                 3.50     0.00   0.00   0.00    3.50   0.00     0.00   0.00
1997198                Demir Leasing          1.11     0.00   0.00   0.00    1.11   0.00     0.00    0.00
2002                   EKS                    12.16    0.00   0.00   0.00    12.16  0.00     0.00    0.00
1988193196             Elginkan               0.40     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.40   0.00     0.00    0.00
1995                   Entek                  21.25    0.00   0.00  14.91   21.25   0.00     0.00   14.91
1997198                FinansLeasing          1.11     0.00   0.00   0.00     1.11  0.00     0.00    0.00
0199                   Finansbank             5.56     0.00   0.00   5.18    5.56   0.00     0.00    5.18
1994198100             GarantiLeasing         0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
1999                   GumussuyuKap           4.00     0.00   3.25   0.00    4.00   0.00     3.25    0.00
2001                   Gunkol                 6.70     0.00   6.70   0.00    6.70   0.00     6.70    0.00
1998                   IndoramaIplik          6.25     0.66   0.00   0.00    6.25   0.66     0.00    0.00
1998lOOlO2             IpekPaper              16.06    0.00   0.00   0.00    16.06  0.00     0.00    0.00
1990                   KepezElektrik          6.48     0.00   0.00   0.00    6.48   0.00     0.00    0.00
0188190                Kiris                  10.06    0.00   0.00   0.00    10.06  0.00     0.00    0.00
1990192                Koy-Tur                0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
1991                   Kula                   4.93     0.00   0.00   0.00    4.93   0.00     0.00    0.00
2003                   MESAGroup              11.oo    0.00   0.00   0.00    5.50   0.00     0.00    0.00
1993196                Medya                  0.00     0.00   4.99   0.00    0.00   0.00     4.99    0.00
2002                  Milli Re                50.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
1998102                Modem Karton           10.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    10.00  0.00     0.00    0.00
1991                  NASCO                   10.18    0.00   0.00   3.55    10.18  0.00     0.00    3.55
0198                  Pasabahce               0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
1983194198             Pinar ET               6.29     0.00   0.00   0.00     6.29  0.00     0.00    0.00
1994100               Pinar SUT               16.09    0.00   0.00   0.00    12.82  0.00     0.00    0.00
1999                   SAKoSa                 19.95    0.00   0.00  14.43    19.95  0.00     0.00   14.43
0186190                Silkar Turizm          2.65     0.00   0.00   3.01    2.65   0.00     0.00    3.01
1993196lO2lO3          Sise Ve Cam            62.93    0.00   0.00  39.33    62.93  0.00     0.00   39.33
1998102               Soktas                  3.50     0.00   0.00   0.00     3.50  0.00     0.00    0.00
1999                  TEB Finansal            2.22     0.00   0.00   0.00    2.22   0.00     0.00    0.00
1979182/83/89/91/96/99Trakya Cam              0.00     1.18   0.00   0.00    0.00    1.18    0.00    0.00
1995199102            Turk EkonBank           20.00    0.00  15.00   0.00    20.00  0.00     15.00   0.00
                              Totalportfolio: 514.06  20.71  34.94  121.23  454.28  11.97   34.94  121.23




                                                         67

                                               Approvals PendingCommitment

FY Approval Company                        Loan      Equity     Quasi   Partic
2001        Akbank                       0.03        0.00       0.00     0.00
2004        Akbank BLoanInc              0.00         0.00      0.00     0.02
2003        Cayeli Expan2                0.02         0.00      0.00     0.00
2000        Erbakir                      0.01         0.00      0.01     0.00
2002        Milli Reasurans              0.00         0.01      0.00      0.00
2004        Oyak Bank I1                 0.05         0.00      0.00      0.00
2003        SisecamExp.                  0.00         0.00      0.00      0.01
2002        TEB I11                      0.00         0.00      0.00      0.05

                 Totalpendingcommitment:    0.11      0.01      0.01      0.08




                                        68

                                                   Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                            TURKEY: HealthTransition Project
                                                              Europe 8 Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central middle-
                                                       Turkey    Asia  income          Development diamond+
2002
Population. mid-year(millions)                            69.6     476    2,411                    Lifeexpectancy
GNIper capita (Atlas method, US$)                        2600     2,so    1,390
GNI(Atlas method, US$ billions)                          774.0    $030    3,352                           -
Average annual growth, 1996-02

Population (%)                                             17       0.1      20
Laborforce (%)                                             2.2      0.4      12        GNI                                Gross

M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                               per                               primary
                                                                                       capita                          nroilment
Poverty (% ofpopulation belownatlonalpo vertylifle)
Urban population (%of totalpopulation)                     67       63       49
Lifeexpectancyat birth (pars)                              70       69       69                           1
Infant mortaiity(per ~ooolivebirths)                       33       25       30
Childmalnutrition (%of chiidrenunder5)                       8                11            Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwatersource(%ofpopulation)            82        91       81
llliteracy(%ofpopulationage 159                             14       3        13
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-age population)       xJl     a 2       in      1   -Turkey
   Male                                                    xJ5     xJ3       in                 Lowr-middle-income groUP
   Female                                                  96       XI1      lxJ          ~




KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                 1982    1992     2001   2002        1
GDP (US$ blllionsj                                                                     Economic ratios'
                                                   64.4  158.9    145.2   182.8
Gross domestic investmentiGDP                      77.0   23.9     6.8      213
Exports of goods and servicesiGDP                  119    14.4     33.7    28.8                         Trade

Gross domestic savingsiGDP                         13.8   20.9     8.2      8.6
Gross national savingslGDP                         18.5   24.4     20.7    20.7                            T


Currentaccount baianceiGDP                         -15    -0.6      2.3     -0.8
InterestpaynentsiGDP                                18     2.0      3.6     3A
Total debUGDP                                      30.6   35.6     78.4     719
Total debtservicelexports                          29.4   32.1     44.0    49.0
Present value of debUGDP                                                             I                     I

Presentvalue of debUexports                                                          I                Indebtedness
                                    1982-92 1992-02     2001     2002 2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                      5.1        2.8   -7.5      7.8     4.7            -Turkey
-GDP.percapita.
           .         .  .                2.7        10    -9.0      6.1     3.6      c           Lower-middle-incomegrouD


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                 Is82   1992                           Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(%ofGDP)
Agriculture                                        227    253      P 8      130        50-
industry                                           251    299      261     254
  Manufacturing                                    777    s 9      158      6 0         0
Services                                           522    547      611      616

Private consumption                                763    662      666     663        .so -
Generalgovernment consumption                      9 9    P 9      142      $40
Imports of goods andservices                       250    77.3     313     305                   -GDI           +GDP        -
                                                                  zoo'              1
(averageannualgrowth)                       1982-92 1992-02              2o02         Growth of exports and imports ("A)

Agriculture                                         14      11     -6 0
industry                                           7 2     2 6     -7 2
  Manufactunng                                     7 2     3 3     -8 0
Services                                           4 2     3 1     -6 2

Pnvateconsumption                                  4 3     2 2     -9 2
Generalgovernment consumption                      3 4     4 4     -8 5     5 4      -40 1
Gross domestic investment                          5 0      11    -420     357
imports of goods and services                      8 8     8 3    -248      157 -              -Exports        -1nports




                                                                     69

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1982   1992     2001     2002
Domestic prices                                                             Inflation (Oh)

(%change)                                                                  100 *

Consumer prices                                   70.1     53.9     44.8
ImplicitGDP deflator                      28.2   63.7      54.8     43.5

Government finance                                                          25 -
(%of GDP, includes current granfsj                                           0
Current revenue                                   29.0     29.3     28.2            97    98    99      0-3     01
Current budgetbalance                             -13      -14.7     -4.7
Overallsurplus/deficit                           -0.7     -20.9     -9.3           -GDP     ddlator   -CPi


TRADE
                                         1982   1992     2001     2002
(US5 millions)                                                              export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                      5,890  14,891  34,373    39,827   eo 000
 Tex&iies                                                                         T
                                          1145  5,603    0,344    9,066
 Processed agricultural products          1571  2293      1876     1705
 Manufactures                            4,655 13,440   28,695    32,673   140000

Total imports (cif)                      8,843 22,871   41399     51270
 Food                                      9 3   1398      848       1211  20 000
 Fueland energy                          3,943  3,903     8,36     8.955                                                I
 Capital goods                            2214  7,970    7.344     8.949

Exportprice index(S95=lOO)                         95        76       75           90  97   98    99    M)

Import price index(s95=lOOj                        90        81       80                 Exports
Terms of trade @95=lOO)                                                                                3 irrports
                                                                                                               O1    O2
                                                  0 5        94       93   I

BALANCE of PAYMENTS I/
                                         1982   1992     2001     2002
(US5 millions)                                                              Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exports of goods and services             7,86 23,343   50,403    54,608
Imports of goods and services            9,592 26,706   45,86     55,095    *i
Resourcebalance                          -1774 -3,363    4.587      -487

Net income                               -1455 -1670     -5,000   -4,549
Net currenttransfers                     2277   4,059    3,803     3,496

Currentaccount balance                    -952   -974    3,390    -1540

Financingitems (net)                      190   2,458   -6.314     1328
Changesin net reserves                    -68  -1484     9,924       2 9

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US5 millions)    2,027 25252    30,82     38.067
Conversion rate (DEC,local/US5)           62.9 6,8813 1228,367  1509,471

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982  1992      2001     2002
(US5 millions)                                                              Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mlll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     8J6 56,554     113806    131407   I
  IBRD                                    1962  5,564    4,707     5,367                    A 6.367
  IDA                                      6 7    148        95       89                              B 89

Total debtservice                        2,968  9,086   24,623    28,632                                       21,503
  iBRD                                    209    GO7       723       708
  IDA                                        3      6         7        7

Composition of net resourceflows                                                                                D x),400
  Official grants                         307     506         0      334
  Official creditors                      762    -509        74      797                                       E8.433
  Privatecreditors                         146  3,604    -2,187     3811
  Foreigndirect investment                  55   779     2,769       862
  Portfolio equity                           0  -284      -4,611   -160          F 7

World Bank program
  Commitments                             648    686     2200      1650     A . IBRD                       E- Bilateral
  Disbursements                           500    286      1537      1,031   8 IDA
                                                                              -       D 01k nuitliateral
                                                                                       -                   F Prlvate
                                                                                                            -




                                                              70

