                                                                               40018
                              DATA SHEET TEMPLATE FOR
                                       PROJECTPAPER

Date:    June 4,2007                           Task Team Leader: Sarbani Chakraborty
Country: Turkey                                Sector Director: Tamar Manuelyan-Atinc
ProjectName: Health Transition Project         Country Director: UlrichZachau
Project ID: PO74053                            EnvironmentalCategory: C



Revisedestimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY             I2005            I2006         I2007          12008        I 2009 (grace

Annual           2.98            7.01          15.1           30.0          6.26
Cumulative       2.98            9.99          25.0           55.0          61.26

Revisedclosingdate: December 31,2008


Board approved
RVP approved            -




RevisedProject DevelopmentObjectives and project development
indicators include:
The project supports the Government's Program for Transformation o f
Health. The Program's overall objective i s to improve the governance,
efficiency, user and provider satisfaction, and long-term fiscal
sustainability o f the health care system inTurkey. The original Program
objective would remain the same. However, the project PDO for Phase
Iisproposedtoberevised.         .

The original PDO of Phase Iis to assist the Government to strengthen
the institutionalenvironment for the implementationo f the Program for
Transformation o f Health that will improve system stewardship,
streamline financing and service delivery, and build the institutional
capacity to extend health insurance coverage to the whole population in
a fiscally sustainable manner.

Source      Local   Foreign  Total
3orrower    7.84    4.02     11.86
BRD/IDA     29.83   19.57    49.40
lthers
rota1       37.67   23.59    61.26

    A. IntroductoryStatement:

1.       This project paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to introduce the
following changes in the Turkey: Health Transition Project (HTP) I (Ln. 4737-TU)
(P074053).

2.       The proposed restructuring would: (i)revise the Project Development Objective
(PDO) for HTP Ias well as the key project performance indicators in order to measure the
revised PDO, (ii) the number o f project components from seven to six, (iii)
                    reduce                                                                cut
some sub-components and introduce new sub-components, (iv) integrate the functions and
responsibilities o f the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) into the Ministry of Health
(MOH) line departments, (v) synchronize project investments to areas of health reforms
that are o f high priority and which are underway, (vi) reallocate loan funds across
expenditure categories in line with proposed project changes, and (vii) extend the closing
date of the Project from December 31,2007 to December 31,2008.

     B. BackgroundandReasonsfor Restructuring:

3.       The Project was approved by the World Bank Board o f Executive Directors on
May 20, 2004. It was designed as a two-phase Adaptable Program of Lending (APL),
supporting the Government's Program for Transformation o f Health (PTH). The PDO o f
Phase Iwas to assist the Government to strengthen the institutional environment for the
implementation o f the Program for Transformation o f Health that will improve system
stewardship, streamline financing and service delivery, and build the institutional capacity
to extend health insurance coverage to the whole population in a fiscally sustainable
manner. The specific objectives, set in line with the Government's PTH, were to assist the
Government of Turkey (GOT)to: (i)      restructure MOH for effective stewardship and policy
making, (ii)  establish a universal health insurance fund, (iii)introduce family medicine as
the model for the provision of primary health care services, (iv) ensure financial and
managerial autonomy for all public hospitals irrespective o f ownership, (v) set up a fully
computerized health and social security information system. The estimated cost o f
investments in Phase Iare  49.40 million. HTP Iwas expected to contribute to the
objective o f a smaller and leaner MOH with a resource base and skills mix in line with its
renewedmandate o f system stewardship, i.e., mostly policy setting and regulation with no
responsibilities for service provision expect for public health programs. Similarly, the
Ministry of Labor and Social Security was also expected to relieve itself fiom the function
o f service provision and focus on essential healthinsurance functions.

4.       Four triggers were identified for Phase 11: (i)Universal Health Insurance Law has
been adopted by the National Assembly; (ii)     satisfactory progress has been made towards
the establishment o f the institutional arrangements for the social security system,
particularly for UHI and a unified pensions system using a common database and
technological platform; (iii) "infostructure" for new social security agencies has been pilot
tested and evaluated; and (iv) a new Primary Health Care (PHC) organizational model
based on family Medicine pilot has been tested and evaluated. It was expected that Phase
I1 would assist GOT to: (i) out family medicine as the model for the provision o f
                               roll
primary health care services, (ii)  complete financial and managerial autonomy for public      ,

hospitals, (iii) the universal health insurance fund fully functional, (iv) set up a fully
                make
computerized informationsystem for health and social security.

5.      Phase Iwas designed to be self-contained in its investment and impact should the
Government fail to deliver on its reform agenda. In fact, the size o f the operation was
influencedby what was neededto lay the ground for systemic changes through institutional
capacity building and pilots, yet still sufficient to leverage policy changes. Should the
reform processes be interrupted, the project was still expected to leave behind a better
trained cadre o f professionals, and experience from field tested pilots on financing and
 service provision.

 6.      Project performance to date:        In December 2005, achievement of project
development objectives was downgraded from "satisfactory" to "moderately satisfactory."
 Subsequently, in June 2006, it was further downgraded to "moderately unsatisfactory."
Project ratings principally reflected delays in the adoption o f planned Laws underpinning
health reform (namely: Social Security and associated Universal Health Insurance Law and
the Ministry of Health Restructuring Law). Project implementation progress was rated
"moderately unsatisfactory" from December 2005 to December 2006. This was primarily          ,
due to lower than expected disbursements. The delays were attributed to weak project
management and delays in finalizing the procurement o f health information systems under
HTP I.Additionally, there were delays in Ministry o f Labor and Social Security's
(MoLSS) use of loan funds because the Ministry preferred to draw down PHRD grant
funds for the programmatic Public Sector Development Policy Loan (PPDPL) for its
technical assistance needs, beforeusingHTP Ifunds.

7.      The Law on Universal Health Insurance was adopted inMay 2006, although it was
subsequently subject to a Constitutional Court challenge. Implementation o f the law i s now
postponed until January 2008. Despite this postponement, the Social Security Institute
(SSI) has made good progress on implementing administrative mechanisms enabling a
unified pension and health insurance system. In addition, progress was made on service
delivery reforms by integrating hospitals managed by one o f the health insurance funds
(SSK) into M O H hospitals (2005) and piloting o f family medicine reforms. Presently,
family medicine i s under implementation in 10 provinces o f the country, covering a
population o f 17 million. Progress on family medicine reforms has proceeded at a much
faster pace than originally envisaged under HTP I.Implementation o f family medicine i s a
key measure envisaged to improve the cost-effectiveness and equity o f health services in
Turkey. Moreover, the Ministry o f Health has built capacity in performance monitoring o f
public hospitals. The benefits package for vulnerable groups was expanded to cover
outpatient services andpharmaceuticals.

8.      The MOHhas prepared satisfactory draft laws on other key elements o f the reform
(Pilot Law on Hospital Autonomy and the Law on Establishing the Pharmaceutical and
National Medical Devices Agency). These laws have been adopted by the Government. I t
i s possible, however, that these laws may not be adopted by the National Assembly in
2007, due to upcoming presidential and parliamentary elections. Despite delays in the
Parliamentary adoption o f important laws, the MOH has been creative in finding strategies
for making as much progress as possibleunder existing legislation inpreparing for piloting
o f hospital autonomy (such as introduction of outsourcing, Buy Operate and Transfer or

                                              2

BOT schemes for new hospital investment, anduse of revolving funds for health facilities).
Since the Mid-Term Review (MTR) o f the Project in September 2006, some bottlenecks in
project implementation arrangements on both the MOH side and the World Bank side have
been addressed, and rapid progress has been made in procurement and commitment of
funds. Disbursement betweenJuly 2006 and April 2007 has increased by 11%and project
commitments have doubled (from 13% last July to 26% in April 2007). There i s strong
evidence o f commitment to reform implementation by both MOH and MOLSWSocial
Security Institute. The January ISR o f the project rated both Development Objectives and
Implementationprogress "moderately satisfactory."

9.      Moreover, the triggers for Phase I1are close to being met (Table 1)

                          Table 1: Status of Triggers for Phase I1
Trigger                         Status                        Next Steps
Universal Health Insurance      Met                           None
(UHI)Lawhasbeen
adopted by the National
assemb1Y
Satisfactory progress has       An implementation planhas Continued progress. The
beenmade towards the            beendeveloped and is under UHIclaims andutilization
establishment o f the           implementation                management systemis
institutional arrangements                                    currently connected with
for the social security                                       90% o fpublic hospitals. A
system, particularly for UHI                                  unified beneficiary database
and a unifiedpension                                          i s under implementation.
system, usinga common                                         Expectedcompletion date
database and technological                                    for this trigger i s December
platform                                                      2007
"info   structure"  for new Met                               None
social security agencies has
been piloted tested and
evaluated
A new Primary Health Care Evaluationplan developed.           First evaluationreport to b e
(PHC) organizational model Baseline line data collection presented inJuly. Project to
based on Family Medicine underway                             be completed by December
pilot tested and evaluated                                    2007

        C.      Reasons for Restructuring:

10.     The restructuring o f the project was motivated by the need to increase project
relevance and accelerate project implementation. During the mid-term review (MTR) in
September 2006, the World Bank's evaluation indicated that the Government's long-term
Program objectives remained the same. Therefore, the overall objective o f HTP Iwas still
relevant. Nevertheless, the path to reforms had taken a different turn and certain important
reforms were on an accelerated timetable while others were going slowly. This was
reflective o f the political economy o f implementing health reforms. To increase project
relevance and development impact HTP Iproject development objectives required re-
calibration with the most recent development in health reform. Concurrently, the MTR
                                             3

mission indicated that changes in project management arrangements were needed to
address implementationbottlenecks.

        D.       Proposed Changes

11,      Revision of Project Development Objective and Associated Indicators: The
Mid-term Review of the project revealed that two key indicators to measure achievement
of the PDO would not be met at the time o f project completion. These two indicators are:
(i)MOHnolongerinvolvedinserviceprovisionexpect for publichealthprograms, (ii)
evidence of public hospitals operating under a new autonomous model.                 The MOH
Restructuring Law, which was presented as a part o f a larger Organic Public
Administration Framework Law, was vetoed by the President o f the Republic. Given the
imminent elections in 2007, re-submission o f the Law and adoption was not considered a
feasible option by the authorities. Therefore, under HTP I,the objective was changed to
focus on capacity-building of the MOH for health system stewardship. Similarly, although
the MOH was optimistic at project design that it would be possible to pass a nation-wide
law enabling the implementation of hospital autonomy, during the law development
process, it was realized that it would be better to pilot hospital autonomy, before moving to
country wide implementation. By the end o f HTP I,hospital autonomy will likely be
implementedinone province of Turkey. Phase I1o f the APL i s expected to support country
wide implementation. Therefore, the revised PDO for the Project i s as follows: to (i)     help
expand the capacity o f the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Social Security Institute
(SSI) to formulate and effectively implement health policies, health sector regulatory
mechanisms and health insurance functions, (ii)support the implementation o f critical
health services delivery reforms (family medicine and hospital autonomy) with the
objective of improving access, efficiency, quality and fiscal sustainability o f the health
sector. The key performance indicators are revised to reflect the revised PDO.

12.     Taking Advantage of Opportunities for Increasing Project Development
Impact: The M O H has moved ahead, beyond the expectations of HTP I,on family
medicine reforms. Instead o f piloting in one province, by December 2006, family medicine
was already under implementation in 10provinces. By the end o f HTP I,it is expected that
family medicine will be under implementation in 20 provinces. Family medicine reforms
are critical for health sector efficiency and quality, since these reforms will help addressthe
existing problem o f excessive use of hospital outpatient services - resulting in
overcrowding in hospitals and higher health expenditures. The key performance indicators
for HTP Iare revised to reflect accelerated implementation o f the family medicine sub-
component. The MOH has launched a hospital performance management system with the
objective o f strengthening the regulation o f public hospitals and reducing variation in the
quality o f care provided in these hospitals. Eventually, this system will be expanded to
cover University and private hospitals and will serve as an important institutional
mechanism for quality regulation. The proposed revision o f PDO indicators will provide a
measure o f this important M O H initiative.

13.     Addressing Bottlenecks in Project Implementation and Supporting capacity
Building of MOH line Agencies in Project Management: The original project
management structure consisted o f a Project Management Support Unit (PMSU), two PIUs
(one each in the MoLSS and MOH), and technical working groups under each PIU). This

                                               4

structure engaged from a distance the MOH and MoLSS line agencies (especially agency
Directors) responsible for the day-to-day management o f ministry tasks.                   T h i s
implementation structure did not work as planned and was identifiedby the Borrower as a
bottleneck to project implementationprogress, as well as, buildingthe capacity o f line units
in project management. Moreover, since HTP Imirrored the Government's Program, the
Borrower considered it best to not differentiate between Program implementation and HTP
Iimplementation.

14.      Institutional arrangements for project implementation have been revised. The
function o f the MOH Project ImplementationUnit (PIU) in the M O H is integrated into the
relevant organic units and departments of the MOH. The Project Management Sector Unit
(PMSU), for MOH and a Project Management Unit (PMU) for SSI with technical
assistance from UNOPS, will provide support on project planning, reporting and
monitoring, financial management and procurement to MOH and SSI. Revisions to project
description (revised Annex 4 o f the PAD), i s attached inAnnex 2 o f this paper.

15.      Streamlining the components and sub-components and reallocation of funds
across components and sub-components.              In order to clarify accountability for
implementation and simplify monitoring and reporting, it i s proposed to re-organize project
activities under components and sub-components so that there is a single, clearly
identifiable department or unit responsible for each component or sub-component. Under
the proposed re-organization, all o f the activities which are the responsibility o f the newly
established SSI would be grouped together in a single Component B. The information
systems activities o f former component E i s re-assigned to Component A, as a new sub-
component AS (for activities involving MOH), and component B, as a new sub-
component B.2 (for activities involving the Social Security Institute). Sub-component C.3.
("Developing      an Effective Referral system") i s merged into sub-component C.2
("Introducing Family Medicine") because this small activity i s an integral part o f the
development of guidelines and training for family medicine, and is the responsibility o f the
same Primary Care Directorate o f the MOH.             The hospital autonomy pilot is the
responsibility of the Directorate of Curative Health Services o f the MOH. A new sub-
component on "Public Information and Communication" i s added to allow the MOH to
implement a systematic framework for stakeholder consultation and public information for
health reforms.      Constituent activities o f sub-components are re-assigned to align
implementation responsibilities. Upgrading of the National Hygiene Laboratory i s shifted
from sub-component A.3 to a new sub-component D.2 (which i s the responsibility o f the
Refik Saydam Instituteof Public Health).

16.     Additionally, two project activities are dropped from HTP I,because these belong
to later phases o f reform or are not relevant under current country conditions. A proposal to
finance low-interest loans to family doctors under Component C.1 i s proposed to be
dropped. This proposal i s not relevant unless family medicine i s privatized. Also, an
initiative to give small grants to NGOs for community based health initiatives i s dropped
(absent mechanisms for assessing and accrediting participating NGOs) and re-allocated to
the implementation o f health services delivery reforms and for supporting the MOH i s
performance monitoring o f hospitals. The changes incomponents and sub-components and
allocations are described ingreater details inAnnex 1,2 and 4 o f this document.


                                               5

17.     Extension of the Closing Date: Given the delays in adoptions o f laws, it i s
proposed to extend the project from December 31,2007 to December 31,2008. This would
give the SSI the necessary time to implement project components and would allow the
MOH to complete the first phase o f important family medicine and quality improvement
reforms inthe health sector.

        E.      Analysis:

18.     The proposed changes do not affect the technical, economic, financial, social or
environmental aspects o f the project as appraised. The outcome and output indicators o f the
Project are revised to better align with the MOH's own results framework and
achievements to date and reflect the actual scope o f the service delivery reforms under HTP

19.     None o f the changes affect the environmental category of the project or trigger
social safeguards. There is no new type of goods or civil works procurement under the
restructured project. There i s no new type o f financing or service delivery intervention that
would have social impact, compared to the original project design.

20.     Because the new SSI would become an implementation agency under the
restructured project and will have some financial management and procurement
responsibilities, financial management and procurement capacity assessments have been
carried out. While the SSI i s a new legal entity, it i s formed from a merger of three
existing institutions with a high level o f capacity and.wel1 established systems. As part o f
the merger,prudenttransitional arrangements for continuity inuse o f existing systemshave
beenadopted. Annex 6 includes the financial management capacity assessment o f SSI.

21.     The restructuringdoes not require any exceptions to Bank policies.

        F.      ExpectedOutcomes:

22.     As HTP Iis the first phase of an APL, the outcome targets and indicators are in
most cases intermediate results rather than final outcomes.        The indicators have been
revisedin line with the proposed restructuringand progress against these will be measured
usingdata available from the MOH, the Social Security Institute, andthe household budget
survey. Major expected results o f HTP Iwould be:


(i) ofLaborandSocialSecurity(MoLSS)nolongeraproviderofhealthservices;
   Ministry
(ii) percentofthepopulationenrolledwithfamilydoctorsinatleast15provincesof
    Ninety
Turkey;
(iii) enrollmentlevels(overgo%), increasednumberofprimarycarevisitsand
     High
referral rate according to MOHbenchmark (as compared to non-pilot areas) for population
enrolled with family doctors in family medicine pilot provinces;
(iv) Contracts based on prospectiveprovider payments implementedbetween UHIFund
and at least 20% o fpublic hospitals and all private hospitals;
(v) Increasedcoverage of healthinsurance among vulnerable groups;


                                               6

(vi) Improvedperformance (quality and efficiency) inat least 50 percent o f Ministry o f
Healthhospitals as compared with baseline;
(vii) New human resource strategy for the health sector adopted by the Government.

(viii) Hospital autonomy pilot implemented inone province of Turkey.

         G.      Benefitsand Risks:

23.      The restructuring would reduce the risks o f implementation delays by eliminating
the identified bottlenecks. It would also reduce the fiduciary risk by dropping financially
and institutionally risky activities, including concessional loans for family doctors and
further grants to NGOs.

24.      The proposed revisions to outcome targets would reduce the risk of non-
achievement by better matching the targets to the planned reform activities during HTP I.
However, one risk remains, inrelation to one o f the restructured outcome targets. This risk
has not changed as a result o f project restructuring.         The outcome target for fiscal
sustainability o f UHI (no accumulation o f debts or arrears) i s risky due to inherent risks in
actuarial forecasts, due to risks o f court challenges to cost control measures adopted by the
Social Security Institute, and due to the political risks surrounding introduction of new user
fees for health services during an election year. The risk mitigation measures being put in
place include development o f multiple strategies for controlling costs (including improved
fraud control, revision o f pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement, and implementation
of appropriate provider payment methods in MOH, University and private hospitals).

25.     In addition, with elections about to take place (July 22, 2007), there may be a
change inthe leadership inthe MOHand SSI. This may result infurther changes inproject
objectives and activities. However, this risk i s mitigated by the fact that HTP Isupports
important health reforms (UHI, family medicine and hospital autonomy). These reforms
are critical for maintaining macroeconomic stability and poverty reduction inthe country -
mandates that any new Government can be expected to support in Turkey. To further
mitigate the risk of restructuring, the World Bank will launch intensive policy dialogue on
health and social security reforms with the new Government immediately after it takes up
office.




                                                7

p"      3             ..t
                       (

        0
        5
       .r(

rcl
 0     a




           2
           c,



           0



          Sr?
           sE
           m 4



     m
   i cd   9
          3
     0
    .r(
    c,

     0
     2

    8
    8
   c
   a




                  P

W




   +
   8
   v)
   m
   h

   d
   3
   .I-
   +
   0
          0
   CElc   `C
           3Q
   U     m
 E
 3
   E
   cd


 E Q

                                             Annex 2

                                  RevisedProjectDescription
                            TURKEY: HealthTransition Project

 This project i s designed to support the Government to implement its Program for
 Transformation in Health, and as such its components are designed and sequenced to
 correspond and contribute directly to PTH's eight main objectives. The project also
 provides investment and capacity-building support for policy actions implemented under
 the Programmatic Public Sector DevelopmentPolicy Loan (PPDPL). The overall objective
 of the program i s to improve the governance, efficiency, user and provider satisfaction and
 long-term sustainability of the healthcare system in Turkey.            The program will be
 implementedintwo phases, each with its own objectives. Phase Iwill be completed in4.3
 years. The objective under Phase Ii s to: (i) expand the capacity o f the Ministry of
                                                  help
 Health (MOH) and the Social Security Institute (SSI) to formulate and effectively
 implement health policies, health sector regulatory mechanisms and health insurance
 functions, (ii)support the implementation o f critical health services delivery reforms
 (family medicine and hospital autonomy) with the objective o f improving access,
 efficiency, quality and fiscal sustainability of the health sector. Phase 11, which i s expected
to overlap with Phase Iand last about three years, will mostly involve: (i)additional
 investments for the MOH and relevant independent organizations (example, the National
 Medical Devices and Pharmaceutical Agency, School o f Public Health) to further
 strengthen system stewardship and regulation; (ii)the large-scale implementation of the
 family medicine model, the expansion o f hospital autonomy reforms; (iii)the
implementation o f improved pharmaceutical management and provider payment methods;
and (iv) the implementation of the infostructure for both health and social security to
support these reforms and strengthen monitoring and evaluation o f health system
performance. Below i s a detailed descriptiono f project components.


By Component:

Project Component A - Restructuring the MOH for Effective Stewardship

This component will assist the MOH to redefine its roles and responsibilities as a policy
maker and regulator of service provision, while retaining key public health functions,
including disease prevention and health promotion. The component has four sub-
components, namely: (i)      building the capacity o f the Strategic Planning and Policy
Development Unit in the MOH; (ii)strengthening the regulatory function vis-a-vis
pharmaceuticals and medical devices which are increasingly becoming o f concern as major
expenditure items, but also because o f their inappropriate use; (iii)supporting the
operationalization o f a Hospital Performance Monitoring Unit that will initially assess
performance within M O H hospitals but eventually in all hospitals (public and private); and
(iv) establishment o f a new sector M&E unit within the MOH to track progress with the
implementation o f the PTH, evaluate pilot reforms to inform plans for scaling up, and also
to become the key unit to provide key evidence in line with MOH's revised mandate and
functions. Consequently, the scope and nature of the activities will encompass
organizational restructuring, setting-up o f new units, training o f M O Hpersonnel and public
informationcampaign. MOHwill be the implementing agency.

A.1. Strengthening the Strategic Planningand Policy DevelopmentUnit ofthe MOH. This
sub-component will support capacity-building of the Strategic Planning and Policy
Development Unit in: (i)        using evidence-based approaches to support the policy
development process in the MOH; and (ii)      provide executive management and in-service
training; build its strategic planning capacity; and design a public awareness campaign. It
will finance consultant services for organizational change, capacity assessment and both
external and internal training o f managerial staff.

A.2. Establishment of the National Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency. This
sub-component will: (i)   support development o f the legislative and regulatory framework;
(ii) in-service training o f new staff; (iii)
                                           procurement of startup equipment and hrniture;
(iv) identifyng equipment needs and revision o f the technical specifications for the main
quality assurance and control laboratory; and (v) carrying out environmental impact
assessment. The equipment itself will beprocured inPhase I1(to be cost separately).

A.3. Performance Management Framework for Autonomous Health Facilities. This sub-
component will support the development and implementation o f performance rating,
monitoring and audit system for MOH hospitals, primary care clinics and autonomous
family doctors. This sub-component will initially focus its activities on MOH hospitals,
underpinnedby the provisions o f the proposed Law on the Pilot Implementationo f State-
Owned Health Enterprises; establishment o f a new Hospital Performance Monitoring Unit
within the MOH to implement this system; communication and information on the roles
and functions o f the Unit to health facilities, other stakeholders and the public;
identification of technical assistance and training needs for the new Unit. It will finance
procurement of consultant services to set up the Unit, and training o f personnel. The full
evolution of this function of this framework in later phases o f reform will see its
application to other types of health facilities (MOH primary health care centers)
autonomous family doctors, university and private hospitals, and may entail partnerships
with independent performance accreditation institutions internationally.

A.4. Health Reform Implementation and Monitoring and Evaluation Capacity. This sub-
component will support MOH capacity buildingin health reform implementation, regular
collection and analysis o f Program monitoring data and using this information for fine-
tuning Program implementation. Data from regular program monitoring will be utilized to
produce an "Annual Sector Performance Report", and stand alone evaluations relevant for
the implementation of the Program. This sub-component will support local consultants,
internationaltechnical assistance and training.

AS. Buildingthe Health Information System for MOH. This sub-component will support
the development of data architecture and platform; system design; development and pilot
testingof software; and assessmento f training needs. Procurement of all IT equipment will
be carried out in Phase 11. The sub-component will finance MOH's limited equipment
needs for pilot testing, consultant services for system and software design and local and
foreign training.




                                              11

Project Component B - Building Capacity of the Health Insurance and Social
Security Institutions

The objective o f this component i s to initiate the process o f building the institutional
capacity of the Social Security Institute (SSI) to implement a fiscally sustainable UHIand
social security system. Phase I1i s expected to further continue this effort.

The Social Security Institutei s the relevant implementation agency under this Component.

B.1. Capacity-Building o f SSI. This sub-component will support the SSI in carrying out
appropriate institutional restructuring and capacity buildingmeasures as the various funds
(SSK, Ernikli-Skdigi, Bag-Kur)are mergedinto one single institutional structure, and help
operationalize specific functions (strategic planning and business plan development and
implementation, public relations and information, identification and implementation o f
provider payment reforms for primary care, outpatient specialist services and hospitals,
pricing and reimbursement o f pharmaceuticals, claims and utilization management,
actuarial analysis, estimation o f premiumrates, deductibles and co-payments; identification
of eligibility/exclusion criteria; and definition o fthe minimumservice package) and well as
train its staffon various health insurance related functions.

B.2. Buildingthe Social Security Information System. This sub-component will support
the development of data architecture and platform; system design; development and pilot
testing o f software; and assessment o f training and resource needs for the social security
system. Procurement o f all IT equipment will be carried out in Phase 11. The sub-
component will finance SSIs limited equipment needs for pilot testing, consultant services
for system and software design, development and local and foreign training.

Project Component C - Reorganizing the Delivery of Healthcare Services

This component will assist MOH to design, develop and pre-test new organizational
models for service delivery by (i)    introducing a family medicine model as the basis for the
provision o f outpatient or primary health care services; (ii) away with the distinction
                                                               doing
between MOH and SSK hospitals and beginning a phased process for making them
autonomous, and forming networks o f hospitals to foster coordination o f capacity and
referral.   A key aspect o f this component will be to build improved patient referral
guidelines for referral from primary care to secondary and tertiary care, and to improve
information flows in both directions along the referral chain. Such a change can only be
executed gradually, and will require cooperation and collaboration of the MOH, the UHI
Directorate o f the new SSI, and the cooperation o f various stakeholders (professional
associations, trade unions active in the health sector, hospital managers, provincial
officials, and associations o f private healthinstitutions, hospitals and insurance companies).
The scope and nature o f the activities will include technical assistance, training,
institutionalization o f family medicine; design o f performance-related bonus systems for
health professionals in family medicine and in autonomous hospitals. The component will
finance capital investment to upgrade family practitioners' offices and equipment,
hardware and software procurement for cost accounting and health information network

                                               12

requirements. Because of the nature of the reform, pilot sub-projects will be carried out in
Phase 1 of the reforms to test the various models to ensure that the new set-up in the
provision and financing o f health care services, Le., family medicine, hospital autonomy,
and referral system, is functionally integrated, including the proposed infostructure. This
component will be carried out by the MOH.

C.1. Introducing Family Medicine for Primary Health Care. This sub-component will
support the design and development of a family medicine based primary health care
organization, including definition of task profiles for family physicians, development of
referral guidelines and mechanisms, piloting the model in at least one or two provinces;
evaluating the pilot interventions and identifying resource needs for full-scale
implementation. The full evolution o f such a model entails family physicians working in
autonomous public clinics or in private settings and being paid on a modified capitation
basis. DuringPhase 1 o f the reform process, a pilot model for increasingthe autonomy o f
MOH family medicine facilities will be put in place.          (Development o f the provider
payment model is included under Component B o f the project.) I t i s hoped that the model
would increase the number o f cases resolved at the primary care level, streamline patient
referral, and reduce self-referral to secondary care for non-emergency cases, thus leading to
more appropriate and efficient care, and reduced patient load inhospitals.

Such an organizational change requires financial and technical support in both the design
and implementationphases and could include, certification systems and institutionalization
o f family medicine, review and refinement o f the family medicine curriculum, definition o f
family medicine facilities and service standards for public and private sectors, refinement
o f the organizationalmodel for autonomous family medicine clinics based on evaluation o f
the pilot, review of performance monitoring and bonus payment systems for family
medicine staff, and development of practice guidelines and referral guidelines. The sub-
component will finance technical assistance for system design, training o f physicians and
nurses inpilot areas, actual piloting, and public information campaign,

C.2. Introducing autonomy in Public Hospitals.         This sub-component will: (i)support
development o f a pilot autonomous hospital model; (ii)    training o f a managerial cadre in
the pilot hospitals; (iii)development o f an appropriate financial control and audit system
for autonomous hospitals; (iv) review and refinement o f performance-linked bonus
payments for staff in autonomous hospitals; (v) projection o f future implementation and
resource needs and plans for scaling up hospital autonomy; and (vi) review o f models for
financing major capital investment (including private financing initiatives, such as BOT).
This sub-component will mainly finance consultant services and local and foreign training.

C.3. Public Information and Communication: This sub-component `would support the
Public Information Unit o f the MOH to support the transformations in the health sector
through targeted public information and communications interventions. Initially, the
activities of this Unit are expected to be targeted to supporting family medicine and other
associatedhealth services deliveryreforms.

C.4. Strengthening; Population health programs, including disease surveillance, maternal
and child health, prevention and control o f communicable and non-communicable diseases
Ir\rCDsY, This sub-component will support a small grants program to NGOs to carry out

                                              13

projects related to improving population and community health up to three grant programs
will be managed under this sub-component and evaluated to determine if this program
should be considered for scaling-up by the MOH.

Project Component D - Strengthening Public Health Functions and Human
Resources Capacity inthe Health Sector

This objective of this component i s to strengthen the implementation of public health
functions such as disease surveillance, public health research, workforce development,
enforcement o f public health laws and regulations, and supporting health policy
development. This component aims at strengthening the competencies o f future family
practitioners and other allied health professionals, including healthcare managers. I t will
also support the re-activation o f the school o f public health which will act as an advisory
and training institution to MOH, and fulfill the functions o f training, research and
consultancy covering the topics o f public health, health policies and strategies, health
services management and health financing and economics. This component will be
implementedby the School o f Public Health and the Refik Saydam Hygiene Instituteunder
theMOH..

D.1. Strengthening the Refik Savdam Hygiene Institute(RSHMB). The main objective of
this sub-component is to undertake the necessary technical and evaluative work aimed at
identifying interventions needed to restructure the RSHI into a National Public Health
Agency. The specific interventions under this sub-component include: (i)    capacity building
o f RSHMB (human, technical, physical), and strengthening research and development
functions; (ii) developing specification for physical infrastructure changes commensurate
with international standards (e.g. upgrading of the disease surveillance system including
reference laboratories); (iii)ensuring effective management o f health risks with revision o f
existing regulations and development o f new regulations (e.g. for food safety, occupational
health); and (iv) ensuringtraining, consultancy, infrastructure, services to establish quality
management system inRSHMB and to receive accreditation for laboratories.

D.2. Strengthening the School of Public Health. This sub-component will support the
development o f the capacity o f the SPH to conduct training courses in the field o f health
management and administration, health economics and financing, rational use o f drugs,
flagship programs,      epidemiological intelligence service       and population health;
establishment o f a training facility and library within the School o f Public Health. It will
also support the school o f public health in carrying our discreet, demand driven policy
studies to support evidence-based policy making in the MOH. It will finance procurement
o f equipment, library material, consultant services for curriculum development and training
modules for each discipline and training activities.

Project Component E- Project Management.                 This component will support the
establishment and functioning o f the PMSU and the technical and oversight work o f the
IAWG and IASC and the hiringo f a Project Management Consulting Firm. It will finance
consultant services, workshops, publication and dissemination activities and training o f
project management staff.



                                              14

Project ComponentF: Completionof Five RegionalTrainingCenters.
This component will support the completion of construction of five Regional Training
Centers, the construction of which was initiated under the World Bank financed Health I
Project. Civil works and consultancy contracts for supervising the civil works will be
supportedunder this Component.




                                           15

                                          Annex 3
                                                                             Attachment
                                      SCHEDULE 1

                        Withdrawal of the proceedsof the Loan

 1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of the items to be financed out of the
proceeds o f the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentageof expendituresfor items so to be financed ineach Category:
                                             Amount ofthe                     % of
                                            Loan Allocated               Expenditures
                  Category                (Expressed inEuro)            To beFinanced
     Goods
                                                               100%o f foreign expenditures,
      (a)under Parts A, Cy                    6,600,929        100% o f local expenditures(ex-
           D and Eofthe Project                                factory cost), and 85% of local
                                                               expendituresfor other items
      (b)under Part B                         2,750,000        procured locally

     Consultants' Services
       (a) under Part A, CyD and E            18,813,808       100%
       (b) under Part B                       5,639,000

     Training
       (a) under Part A, CyD and E            11,230,293       100%
       (b) under Part B                        500,000

     PopulationHealth Grants                   200,000         100%of amounts disbursed
     UnderPart C.4 ofthe Project

     Pilot Sub-projects                           0'
     UnderParts C.1, C.2, C.3 and
     Eofthe Project
     Incremental operating costs
     (a) under PartsA, C ,D and E             1,322,7 12       100%
          of the project
     (b) underPartB                            100,000         100%

     Fee                                       247,000         Amount due under Section 2.04
                                                               ofthis Agreement
     Unallocated                                  0
     Works, medical equipment and             1,749,258        100%
     consultants' servicesunder
     Part F ofthe Project
                               Total:        49,153,000


INoamount indicated

                           Annex 4: Procurement Plan

Component A:                       Description         Amount
Restructuring the MOH                                  Procurement Method
for Effective Stewardship

Sub-Component A.1
Strengtheningthe Strategic Consultant Services         EURO 671,172 IC
Planning andPolicy         Training                    EURO 332,910 NS/Other
Development Unit of the                  Subtota1:     EURO 1,004,082
MOH

Sub-Component A.2
Establishmentofthe         Consultant Services         EURO 509,951    IC
National Pharmaceuticals   Training                    EURO 310,348    NS/other
and Medical devices Agency                  Subtotal:  EURO 820,299

Sub-Component A.3
PerformanceManagement      Consultant Services         EURO 300,000 IC
Framework for Autonomous   Training                    EURO 400,000 NS/other
Health facilities                           Subtotal:  EURO 700,000

Sub-component A.4 Health
reform Implementationand   Goods                       EURO 100,000 NS/other
Monitoring and Evaluation  Consultant Services         EURO 5,190,246   I/SS
Capacity                   Training                    EURO     848,280 NS/Other
                           Incremental Operating       EURO 120,000 Other
                           costs (IOC)      Subtotal:  EURO 6,258,526

Sub-component AS
Building the Health        Goods                       EURO 4,982,607 ICB/NS
Information Systemfor      Consultant Services         EURO 2,508,226 IC/IS/CQ
MoH                        Training                    EURO 522,036 NS/Other
                           Incremental Operating      EURO      50,000 Other
                           costs (IOC)       Subtotal: EURO 8,062,869
                                                      Total Goods: EURO 5,082,607
                                                      Total Consultant Services:
                                                                     EURO 9,179,595
                                                      Total Training: EURO 2,413,574
                                                      Total IOC:    EURO      170,000
                                                            Total: EURO 16,845,776
Component B: Building
Capacity of the Health
Insurance and Social
Security Institutions
Sub-ComDonent B.1

                                       17

CapacityBuildingof SSI       Consultant Services         EUR03,975,000 CQ/IND/QCBS
                             Training                    EURO 250,000 NS/Other
                                              Subtotal:  EURO 4,225,000
Sub-Component B.2
Building the Social Security Goods                       EURO 2,750,000           ICB
Institution                  Consultant Services         EURO 1,524,000           IND/QCBS
                             Training                    EURO 250,000             NS/Other
                                              Subtotal:  EURO 4,524,000




Sub-ComponentB.3             Consultant                  EURO 140,000              IND/QCBS
ProjectManagement            IncrementalOperatingCosts EURO 100,000                Other
                             (IOC)                       EURO 240,000
                                                         ----------------------------------------
                                                         Total Goods: EURO 2,750,000
                                                         Total Consultant Services:
                                                                          EURO 5,639,000
                                                         Total Training: EURO-500,000
                                                         Total IOC:        EURO         100,000
                                                                Total: EURO 8,989,000

Component C:          ~~




Reorganizingthe delivery
of Healthcare Services
Sub-ComponentC.1             Goods                       EURO 417,321 N S
Introducing Family           Consultant Services         EURO 2,492,194         IC/QCBS
Medicine for Primary Health Training                     EURO 5,232,601 NS/Other
Care                         IncrementalOperating        EURO        390,983 Other
                             costs             Subtotal: EURO 8,533,099

Sub-Component(2.2
IntroducingAutonomy in       Consultant Services         EURO 482,000            IC
Public Hospitals             Training                    EURO 453,127            NS/Other
                                               Subtotal: EURO        935,127
Sub-ComponentC.3
Public Informationand        Goods                       EURO 100,000           N S
Communication                Consultant Services         EURO 700,000           ICIQCBS
                             Training                    EURO 100,000           N S
                                               Subtotal: EURO        900,000

Sub-ComponentC.4
Strengtheningthe             Goods                       EURO 521,696 NS/Other
PopulationHealthprograms     Consultant Services         EURO       13,557 CQ
                             Training                    EURO        30,764 N S
                             Grant                       EURO 200,000 Other
                                            Subtotal:    EURO         766,017

                                         18

                                                       Tota1Consultant Services:
                                                                         EURO 3,687,75 1
                                                       Total Training: EURO 5,816,492
                                                       Total IOC:          EURO 390,983
                                                       Total Grant:        EURO 200,000
                                                             Total: EURO 11,134,243

Component D:
Strengthening Public
Health Functions and
Human Resources
Capacity inthe Health
sector
Sub-ComponentD.1               ~        ~~




Strengtheningthe Refik      Consultant Services        EURO 1,358,778 IC
SaydamHygiene Institute     Training                   EURO         290,709 N S
                                           Subtotal:   EURO       1,649,487
Sub-Component D.2
Strengtheningthe Schools of Goods                      EURO         99,305          Other
Public Health               Consultant Services        EURO 1,469,376               IC/SS/CQ
                           Training                    EURO 1,871,2 10             NS/Other
                            Incremental Operating      EURO         204,142         Other
                            costs            Subtotal: EURO 3,644,033
                                                      .......................................
                                                      Total Goods: EURO               99,305
                                                      Total Consultant Sewices:
                                                                       EURO 2,828,154
                                                      Total Training:EURO 2,16 1,9 19
                                                      Total IOC:         EURO         204,142
                                                             Total: EURO 5,293,520

Component E:
Project Management

                           Goods                      EURO         380,000 N S
                           Consultant Services        EURO 3,118,308 IC/QCBS
                           Training                   EURO         838,308 NS/Other
                           Incremental Operating      EURO         557,587 Other
                           costs
                                               Total: EURO 4,894,203




                                        19

Component F:
Completion of Five                   Works, Medical Equipment,
RegionalTraining Centers             and Consultancy Services             EURO I,749,258

                                                                          HTP Grand Total:
                                                                                      EURO48,906,000
                                                                          Loan Fee:2               247,000
                                                                          Project Total:       49,153,000
                                                                          WB LoanTotal:
                                                                                      EURO 49,153,000




 Loan fee cancelled:  247,000. Therefore, the total loan amount i s  49,153 as compared with  49,400 as
stated inthe original loan documents.

                                                     20

                                                   Annex 5

                              Revised Results Framework and Monitoring
                                 TURKEY:Health Transitionproject
1 Program                                   Results F r a ework
              Purpose             Original End-of-           Revised End-of            Use-of End-of-
                                Program Indicators         Program Indicators              program
                                                                                         Information
  Program's overall
  objective i s to improve the
  governance,efficiency,        1,MaternalMortality       1.Significant reduction   Evaluates the impact of
 user ad provider                ratio i s on course to   indiscrepancy inthe       MOHand UHI
  satisfaction and long-term     reach the target o f %   burden o f disease        programs inreducing
l fiscal sustainability of the   reduction by 2015        (BOD) for key             geographic and socio-
  health care system in        2.Childmortality rate i s  communicable and          economic inequalities
  Turkey                         on course to reach the   non-communicable          inhealth outcomes and
                                 target of 2/3 reduction  diseases by age, gender,  access to health
  Phase I:(FY05-08):             by 2015                  region, urbadrural and    services, including
                               3.Significant reduction    income quintiles (Same    public health
  The objective o f PhaseIi s    indiscrepancy in         as before)                interventions
  to strengthen the              MMR,IMRandby             2.Improved targeting o f
  institutional environment      region, urbadrural       public resources for      Evaluates the impact of
  for the implementation o f     and income quintiles     health (new indicator)    interventions to ensure
 the Program for               4.Outpatient and           3.Increased use o f cost- fiscal sustainability o f
 Transformation o f Health       inpatient services use   effective health         UHI
 that will improve system        indicators converge      services among
 stewardship, streamline         towards EUaverage        disadvantaged
 financing and service           by end of the project   populations (new
 delivery, and buildthe        5.Physicians' choice o f   indicator)
 institutional capacity to       family medicine as a     4.Fiscal sustainability
 extend health insurance         mode o f practice        of UHIaddressed (no
 coverage to the whole         6.Increaseintotal and      accumulation o f debt or
 population ina fiscally         public health            arrears, balance
 sustainable manner.             expenditures inline     between revenues and
                                 with country's           expenditures) (new
 Phase11(FY09-11)                economic                 indicator)
                                 development              5.Increase intotal and
 The objective o f Phase I1is  7.Reliance on subsidy     public health
 to enable the Government        from the consolidated   expenditures inline
 to complete its fiscal and      budget for balancing    with country's
 institutional readiness for     the UHIF budget         economic development
 nationwide transition to        reduced                 (same as before)
 family medicine and the       8.Institutional and legal 6.Improved allocative
 implementation o f              framework o f the       and technical efficiency
 universal health insurance.     health and social       o f health services
                                 security sector infull  (spending on
                                 compliance with the     preventive and primary
                                 acquis communitaire     health care services,
                                 for EUaccession         bedpopulation ratio,
                                                         occupancy rate,
                                                         admission rate) (new
                                                         indicator)
                                                         7.Increased user and

                                                                  provider satisfaction

(PDO                                                              with health services
                                                                  (new indicator)
                                                                  Outcome Indicators            Use of Outcome
                                                                                                Information
Original PDd: to assist          MOHno longer                     MoLSS no longer               Evaluate whether
the Government to                 involved inservice              provider o f health           health reforms have
strengthen the institutional     provision except for             services (same as             havingthe desired
environment for the              public health programs           before)                        impacts and ifnot, why
implementation o f the                                                                           and how the reforms
Program for                      MoLSS no longer                   Ninety percent o f the        canbe fine tuned for
Transformation o f Health         involved inservice              population enrolled           Phase I1o f the APL.
that will improve system         provision                        with family doctors in
stewardship, streamline                                           at least 15 provinces of       Assist the MOHand
financing and service             Evidence o f public             Turkey; (new                   SSI evaluate capacity
delivery, and buildthe           hospitals operating              indicator)                    buildinginterventions
institutional capacity to        under a new                                                     for MOHand SSI
extend health insurance           autonomous model                Highenrollment levels         Track whether
coverage to the whole                                             (over go%), increased          institutional
population ina fiscally          Evidence o f increased           number o f primary care       interventions planned
sustainable manner.              user and provider                visits and referral rate      under PhaseI
                                  satisfaction as a result o f    according to MOH               (purchaser-provider
Revised PDO: (i)help              family medicine pilot           benchmark (as                 split, MOHmoving
expand the capacity o f the                                       comparedto non-pilot          away from provision)
Ministry o f Health (MOH)        Evidence o f capture and         areas) for population         are being achieved
and the Social Security          use of health, service           enrolled with family
Institute (SSI) to formulate     use and financing data           doctors infamily
and effectively implement        generated inthe family           medicine pilot
health policies, health          medicine pilot by the            provinces. (new
sector regulatory                newly integrated                 indicator)
mechanisms and health            informationsystem
insurance functions, (ii)                                         Contracts based on
support the                                                       prospective provider
implementation o f critical                                       payments implemented
health services delivery                                          betweenUHIFundand
reforms (family medicine                                          at least 20% of public
and hospital autonomy)                                            hospitals and all private
withthe objective o f                                             hospitals (new
improving access,                                                 indicator);
efficiency, quality and
fiscal sustainability o f the                                     hcreased coverage o f
health sector.                                                    healthinsurance among

     Inthe original Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for HTPI, PDO for Phase Iis different from the one
                                                                      the
   stated inthe project data sheet and the description o f the project. The project data sheet reefers to B.2inthe
   main body o f the PAD and Annex 3 (results framework) and the objectives are stated differently ineach
   section. The PDO inthe original Results Matrix (Annex 3) reads as follows: Governance o f the health care
   system is realigned and the roles and responsibilities o f key government agencies are redefined along the
   functional lines of stewardship, financing, service provision and health and social security information
   management. This inconsistency was corrected inthe Results framework for inAnnex 5 o f the Project Paper.
   Therefore the PDO here reads the same as inthe original project data sheet and legal agreement.



                                                           22

                                                vulnerable groups (new
                                                indicator);


                                                 Improvedperformance
                                                [quality and efficiency)
                                                inat least 50 percent of
                                                Ministry o fHealth
                                                hospitals as compared
                                                with baseline (new
                                                indicator);
                                                [vii) New human
                                                resource strategy for
                                                the health sector
                                                ndopted by the
                                                Sovemment (new
                                                indicator)

                                                Hospital autonomy
                                                pilot implemented in
                                                one province of Turkey
                                                (new indicator)
IntermediateResults One                         Results Indicators for   Use of Results
per Component                                   Each Component           Monitoring
Component A.            MOHrestructured          Hospitalperformance     Determine the degree
Strengthening MOH                                monitoring unit         o f success inreforming
Stewardship             NPMDA established        established (new        the MOHto meet its
                        Quality Assurance and    indicator)              mandate o f health
                           Accreditation System                          system oversight and
                           established           Monitoring and          stewardship
                        Monitoring and           Evaluation System
                           Evaluation System     operational (same as
                           Operational           before)

                                                 Strategic Planning
                                                 Department capacity
                                                upgraded (new
                                                 indicator)

Component B: Building   Universal Health        Universal Health
Capacity of the Health    Insurance             Insurance established
Insurance and Social      Established            (same as before)
Security Institutions
Component C:            Family medicine model   Family medicine
Reorganizing the          defined and pilot     model defined and
Delivery of Healthcare    tested                pilotedtested (same as
Services                                        before)

                        Autonomous hospital     Autonomous hospital
                          model is developed    model i s developed
                          and first phase       and piloted inat least
                          hospitals selected    one Province.

                                            23

                         Effective referral system
                              established
                                                      Innovativenew
                         Innovative new               initiatives to promote
                              initiatives to promote  population health
                              populationhealth        carried out (same as
                              carried out             before)

                                                      Planfor new
                         Plan for new                 surveillance system
                              surveillance system     developed (same as
                              developed               before)
 Component D:            Human resources plan        Humanresources plan
 Strengthening Public    developed and ready for     developed and ready
 Healthand Human         implementation              for implementation
 Resource Capacityin the                             (same as before)
 Health Sector           School o f Public Health
                         i s ready to conduct         School o f Public
                         courses inhealth             Healthconducts
I                        management and               courses inhealth
                         administration, health       management and
                         economics, rational drug     administration, hea h
                         use, epidemiological         economics and
                         intelligence service and     financing, rational
                         population health            drug, population health
                                                      (new indicator)

                                                      School of Public
                                                      Healthconducts key
                                                      studies for input in
                                                      MOHpolicy-making
                                                      (e.g. human resources
I                                                     inthe health sector
                                                      study, regular updates
                                                      o f national health
                                                      accounts) (new
                                                      indicator)
                                                     Training centers
 Completionof Five                                   completed by October
 RegionalTraining                                    31 2007
 Centers
 Component F:Project                                 Capacity o f
 Management                                          implementation
                                                     agencies team's built in
                                                     project management




                                                 24

                                             Annex 6

       Financial Management Capacity Assessment of the Social Security Institute
The original project design, before SSI was established, stipulated the implementation of
Component B and parts o f Component D and E o f the project by the Ministry o f Labor and
Social Security. However, since these components directly relate to the functions o f SSI,
these will be implemented by the newly established SSI. Law Number 4749 on Public Debt
enables the Undersecretariat of Treasury to transfer loans to general budget institutions and
on-lend (loans) to public institutions other than general budget institutions and banks. SSI
i s a public institution but it i s not a general budget institution and therefore the Treasury
can not transfer the loan to SSI.         It was agreed with there will be an "on-lending"
arrangement between the Treasury and SSI and the loan will be restructured to reflect SSI
as an implementing entity for HTP.
Implementing Entity and Staffing
The Social Security Institution (SSI) was established with Law 5502 with the merger of
 Social Insurance Institution (SSK),         Bag-Kur and Emekli Sandigi.            SSI i s an
administratively and financially autonomous public institution. Its general directorate is in
Ankara and it i s subject to the audit o f TurkishCourt o f Accounts.
 SSI has established a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for the Health Transition Project.
This PCU is responsible for coordination with the implementing departments of SSI and
has an overall fiduciary responsibility for the SSI part of the project, The PCU i s headed
by a director and has staff assigned to the project, all of whom are employees o f the SSI
(from the former Emekli Sandigi).          The PCU has a Financial Management Sub-Unit
(FMSU).
Funds Flow
Itis proposed that there will bea new special account for the SSIportion o fthe loan. Inthe
original project design it was envisaged that the MOLSS and MOH will have one special
account and MOH would be responsible for its consolidation. However, since SSI is now
responsible for the part originally envisaged for MOLSS there will be an on-lending
arrangement between the Undersecretariat of Treasury and SSI. Therefore a new special
account will be allocated for the sole use o f SSI and other than for informative purposes
there will not be any additional information flow to MOH. The limits o f the SSI special
account will be determined by the loans department.
The SSIbudget is approved by its own Board of Directors and therefore i s not a part of the
Ministryof Finance managed Government budget system. SSI has allocation inits budget
for the project for 2007. The current budget allocation in the SSI budget does not specify
that the allocation i s for the World Bank funded Health Transition Project. The Ministryo f
Finance confirmed that SSI has the authority to create a new sub-account and transfer the
budget allocationto this sub-account with the approval o fits Board ofDirectors.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
The SSIpart of the project accounting will bemaintainedbythe PCU andwill be on a cash
basis. The PCU has procured a computerized financial management system - LOGO that
i s also usedby MOH PMSU. The LOGO accounting software i s capable o f recording the
project transaction in accordance with respective components as well as disbursement

categories and sources o f funds. The staff in PCU are currently establishing the project
code o f accounts andtailoringthe software for their project.
The PCU will prepare a Financial Management Manual for the project. The Financial
Management Manual should cover: (a) the financial management system o f the project
including the accounting and auditing policies; (b) the role o f the financial management
systems in the project implementation; (c) the accounting arrangements for the project;
including the format and contents of the project reporting; (d) the auditing arrangements;
and (e) budgeting and planning.
External Audit
Annual project financial statements for the part o f the project that will be implemented by
SSI will be prepared separately and will be audited by the Treasury Controllers in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) under TOR that was cleared
duringproject negotiations.
Reporting and Monitoring
The PCU will maintain records and will ensure appropriate accounting for the funds
provided. Financial statements for the project will be prepared by the PCU. The Financial
MonitoringReports (FMR) will be prepared quarterly and will be submitted to the Bank no
later than 45 days after the end o f the quarterly period.
The FMRs will be submitted with a cover letter explaining the activities o f the quarter and
will includethe following tables;
    '   Statement o f Sources and Uses o f Funds by categories
    ..  Statement of Sources and Uses o f Fundsby Project Components
        Special Account Statement
        A detailed schedule for tracking disbursements against specific consultancy
        contracts. The data to be included in this report will be agreed during negotiations.
        It is expected that the monitoring and evaluation department of the PCU will be
        responsible for the preparation o f this report and the FMSU will provide the
        requiredfinancial data.
        Procurement reports: It is expected that the Procurement department o f the PCU
        will be responsible for the preparation o f procurement reports and the FMSU will
        provide the required financial data.
The financial accounting software LOGO i s capable o f producing the FMRs and the PCU
will ensure that necessary arrangements will be made so that the reports are obtained
automatically from the software.




                                              26

Action Plan


Actions                                           Deadline        Status

The chart o f accounts for the project will be April 30,2007      Met
prepared and uploaded to the LOGO software.

Arrangements for the automatic production o f the April 30,2007   Met
Financial Monitoring Reports from the LOGO
software will be finalized and tested.

A budget line will be created for the HTP project April 30,2007   Met
allocation inthe SSI budget.

Financial management policies and procedures for May 15,2007      Met
the project will be described in the Financial
Management Manual.




                                        27

