Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
July 1, 2003 
 
Mr. Ersen Ekren 
Director General 
General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations  
The Undersecretariat of Treasury 
Ankara 
Republic of Turkey 
 
Re:  Japanese Grant for the Preparation of the Health Sector Transformation Project 
 
Grant TF051884                                                                                                         
Dear Sir: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make 
a
grant in an amount not exceeding eight hundred thousand United Stated Dollars (US$800,000)(the 
Grant) to the Republic of Turkey (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is the Bank’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement 
and any information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the 
Recipient has given its consent to such disclosure.  The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter 
Agreement, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank  
Page  2
-
2
-
of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ 
Sally Zeijlon 
Country Manager, Turkey 
Country Department VI 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
AGREED: 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
By: /s/ Aydin Karaoz 
 
Authorized Representative 
Title: Deputy Undersecretary 
Date: 7/1/2003
Page  3
-
3
-
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of the Health Sector 
Transformation Project, which has as main objectives to support the broad-based medium/long 
term sectoral development agenda of the Recipient by consolidating health sector financing 
across various payers, streamlining health delivery across providers and redefining the functions 
of the Recipient’s Ministry of Health (MOH) through a revision of its roles and responsibilities 
(the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a) Stakeholder Analysis
Provision of technical assistance and training to help conduct a national consensus 
conference and stakeholder analyses to build momentum for sector reform, which is estimated to cost 
US$250,000 equivalent; 
 
(b) Base-line Survey
Provision of technical services to undertake a survey of health facilities of various vocations 
to document service utilization and its determinants, which is estimated to cost US$100,000 
equivalent; 
 
(c) Legal Assessment
Provision of technical assistance for a review of all laws, decrees and other judicial 
documents pertaining to health care with a view to harmonize the legal basis for health financing and 
delivery, which is estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent; 
 
(d) Health Workforce Policy and Planning
Provision of technical assistance to analyze production trends, quality issues and problems 
with the present and future skills mix and distribution of health work force, including 
productivity, performance, incentives and personnel management with a view to match changing 
health care needs due to epidemiologic and demographic transition in Turkey, which is estimated 
to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent; 
 
(e) Quality Assessment
Provision of technical assistance for a review of current institutional responsibilities and 
mechanisms for quality assurance and control in health services delivery, which is estimated to 
cost US$50,000 equivalent;  
 
(f) Social, Environmental and Institutional Assessment
Provision of technical assistance for the preparation of the social and environmental 
assessments, which is estimated to cost US$100,000; and 
 
Page  4
-
4
-
(g) Assistance with Project Implementation Plan and Capacity Building
Provision of technical assistance to support (i) Project preparation, including capacity 
building in financial management and procurement; and (iii) the preparation of the Project 
implementation plan, which is estimated to cost US$100,000. 
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient, through the MOH and the Ministry of Labor and Social Security (MOLSS), 
shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering 
the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from 
time to time exchange views with the Bank's representatives on the progress and results of the 
Activities; (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of the 
Republic of Turkey for purposes related to the Grant; and (f) cause all goods and services financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.  Without 
limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to 
the Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, on the results and impact of the Activities. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services  required 
for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in 
the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of  
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(in Dollars)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1) Consultants’ services  
 
750,000 
 
100% 
 
(2) Training/workshops  
 
50,000
100% 
 
TOTAL  
800,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the term “training/workshops” means the cost of workshops, related 
travel expenditures, boarding, lodging and per diem allowances.. 
 
Page  5
-
5
-
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Bank; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities,  if such payment or import, to 
the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after January 23, 2004 or 
such later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), provided 
that, except in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected 
date of Bank approval of financing for the Project.  However, withdrawals may be made after the 
Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal 
application is received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any 
amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the Categories 
in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures under such 
Category, the Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such Category an amount of 
the Grant then allocated to another Category which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to 
meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the 
Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the authorized 
representative of the Recipient authorized by the General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations 
of the Undersecretariat of Treasury of the Recipient; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in 
support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures 
of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first application 
bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its 
supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the 
carrying out of the Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the 
Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; (b) services of individual consultants costing  less than 
US$50,000 equivalent; and (c) training under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for 
the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in U.S. 
dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in the Central Bank of Turkey on terms and 
Page  6
-
6
-
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall, through the MOH and MOLSS, maintain or cause to be 
maintained a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee 
of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or 
(d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance in financing the Project. 
 
Page  7
-
7
-
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph:  the short list of 
consultants for services for base line survey, legal assessment, health workforce policy and 
planning; quality assessment and social, environmental and institutional assessment under 
paragraph 1.1 (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of the Annex, estimated to cost less than US$200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  8
-
8
-
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals. Such plan shall be updated every 6 months during the execution of the Activities, and 
each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from 
time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 
3
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual estimated to cost 
the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and 
experience of candidates, and terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  9
-
9
-
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$150,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account 
under the eligible Category(ies), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
Page  10
-
10
-
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
Page  11
-
11
-
cleared and cc:  R. Mehta (LOAG1), O. Hayat (TFO),  K. Mostipan (ECSCS), D. Barlas (LEGEC). 
Radha Raju (ACTTN) 
 
