Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB711 
Project Name 
Health Transition Project (Phase 1) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Health (100%) 
Project ID 
P074053 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Treasury, Republic of Turkey 
 
Ministry of Health, Turkey 
Prof. Dr. Sabahattin Aydin 
Deputy Minister 
Tel: 90-312-4357100 
 
sabahattin@saglik.gov.tr 
 
Ministry of Labor and Social Security, Turkey 
Mr Mustafa Gur 
Deputy Minister 
Tel: 90-312-212 0257 
Fax: 90-312-212 5239 
mgur@csgb.gov.tr 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 10, 2004 
Date of Appraisal Authorization 
March 15, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
May 20, 2004 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background
 
 
While Turkey has made considerable progress in expanding healthcare coverage and improving on key health 
indicators, it continues to rank far behind most middle-income and European Union (EU) accession countries 
in terms of health status and access to healthcare.  Life expectancy is nearly ten years below the Organisation 
of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) average, and infant and maternal mortality rates are 
among the highest of middle-income countries.  The health sector in Turkey is under-performing in achieving 
health outcomes commensurate with its level of socio-economic development and the amount of expenditures 
in healthcare which stand at about 6.9% of the Gross Domestic Product (GNP).  Substantial and sustained 
efforts will have to be made if the country is to meet the European health and service standards and the 
Millennium Development Goals by the year 2015.  
 
A recent World Bank sector study, “Reforming the Health Sector for Improved Access and Efficiency” 
(Report No.: 24358-TU) (March 2003), identified the following issues as the main reasons behind the under-
performance:  
 
Inequalities in health and access to health care.  
A careful analysis of the allocation of human and financial 
resources reveals that there are wide discrepancies in the distribution of health personnel, with most 
physicians, particularly specialists located in western and large urban areas.  Similarly, the distribution of 
public health expenditures is not equitable; the richer regions spending more public money per person on 
health care.  As for health insurance coverage, large segments of the population, mostly the rural and the 
unemployed, do not have adequate health insurance, many relying on Government’s Green Card scheme 
which only allows free access to hospitals, but not to primary health care or drugs.  Not surprisingly, there are 
Page  2
 
 
wide gaps between the urban and rural, and the western and eastern parts of Turkey across almost all health 
indicators. 
 
Inefficiencies in resource allocation. 
 Increasingly less is spent on preventive care and on maternal and child 
health.  The primary health care system is under-funded and ineffective, relying more and more on user fees.
  
A large number of health centers are understaffed in rural areas in general, and in the Eastern and South 
Eastern Anatolia regions of the country in particular.
 
 The majority of general hospitals are operated 
inefficiently, wasting resources. 
 
Weak system stewardship and governance.
  Ministry of Health (MOH) has low interest and weak capacity in 
effectively performing key stewardship and regulatory functions with regard to setting health policies, criteria 
and standards.  Until recently, there was traditionally little coordination between the MOH and the Ministry of 
Labor and Social Security (MOLSS) both being responsible for both health financing and provision of health 
care. 
 
2. 
Objectives
 
 
The proposed operation will address the problems in a programmatic way.  The program objective is to 
improve the governance, efficiency, user and provider satisfaction, and long-term fiscal sustainability of 
the healthcare system of the country.  The project’s development objective is to narrow the gap in access 
to, quality and utilization of health services between Turkey and other middle-income and EU countries 
by extending health insurance coverage to the whole Turkish population and by reducing inequalities in 
access to health care, especially for the poor and those living in rural and peri-urban areas.  At present, 
about 33% of the population are not covered by any form of insurance or the Green Card Program.  Once 
the project is fully implemented, this segment of the population will have full access to healthcare, not 
only in financial terms, but also vis-à-vis free choice of a family physician and a more transparent and 
equitable referral system. 
 
The specific objectives, set in line with Government’s Program for Transition in Health (PTH), are to:  (i) 
re-structure MOH for more effective stewardship and policy making; (ii) establish a universal health 
insurance fund; (iii) introduce family medicine as the model for the provision of primary health care 
services (iv) ensure financial and managerial autonomy for all hospitals irrespective of ownership; and (v) 
set up a fully computerized health and social information system.  Upon completion of the program, it is 
expected that MOH will be a smaller and leaner agency, with a resources and skills mix in line with its 
renewed mandate of system stewardship, namely doing “more steering and less rowing”, that is mostly 
policy setting and regulating with no responsibilities for service provision, except for public health 
programs.  Similarly, MOLSS is also expected to relieve itself from the function of service provision, 
increasingly specializing and building its institutional capacity in essential insurance functions of 
balancing revenues and expenditures, thus in risk assessment, actuarial analysis, definition of essential 
service package, premium setting, and strategic purchasing from and contracting with providers. 
 
The most recent Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the Policy Notes, “Turkey: Greater Prosperity 
with Social Justice” that was prepared in November 2002 to assist the incoming new government, 
Government’s own Urgent Action Plan (UAP), released in January 2003, and its sectoral spinoff, PTH, all 
concur almost entirely that a fundamental overhaul – as opposed to piecemeal changes – is  needed and 
that the system would have to be “transformed”.  There is a general consensus that the Transition should 
at least entail:  (i) the separation of provision and financing of health care so as to achieve a more efficient 
resource allocation and use; (ii) introduction of universal public health insurance so as to ensure equity 
and access to health services; (iii) financial and administrative autonomy for public hospitals in order to 
improve technical efficiency and strengthen management; (iv) introduction of family medicine so as to 
Page  3
 
 
integrate and streamline delivery of primary health care with inpatient care and ensure comprehensiveness 
and continuity in health care; and (v) increased emphasis on improving maternal and child health. 
 
This program is designed to specifically assist the Government implement its own PTH and as such, the 
components are designed and sequenced to correspond and contribute directly to the PTH’s five main 
objectives. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The timing and scope of Bank’s involvement is very opportune, as the current government is strongly 
committed to extensive reforms in the health sector, particularly in extending health coverage to the entire 
population and reducing the inequalities in access to and utilization of services across the country.  
Indeed, both the UAP and PTH have set a tight deadline for the necessary legislative and institutional 
reforms to lay the foundations for the desired Transition in health, and have already drafted several new 
laws on restructuring the social security system, establishing Universal Health Insurance (UHI), and 
reorganizing the MOH and its affiliated institutions.  All these Bills have now been made public and 
extensively discussed by government agencies, civil societies and other stakeholders.  They will be read 
in the Parliament subsequent to the passage of the Framework Law on Public Administration.  
 
For the day-to-day operations of the health care system, several positive changes have already been 
effected that have enhanced patient choice.  Most important of all is that patients can now visit any MOH 
or MOLSS hospital, regardless of their eligibility, a major change of both symbolic and operational 
implications.  The momentum already set up by the demonstration of the strong political will and intent of 
the Government to bring about sweeping changes is unprecedented and provides a unique window of 
opportunity for continued Bank support to the sector.  
 
4. Description 
 
The first Phase of the operation is the Health Transition Project (HTP) which will have six components: 
 
Component A:  Restructuring of the MOH  for Effective Stewardship.
  This component supports MOH’s 
institutional Transition from a mainly provider of services to a policy maker and regulator of service 
provision, while retaining key public health functions.  This component has four sub-components, 
namely:  (i) restructuring of MOH; (ii) Establishment of a National Pharmaceutical and Medical 
Equipment Agency; (iii) Quality Assurance and Accreditation of Health Facilities; and (iv) Establishing 
Monitoring and Evaluation Capacity for the PTH. 
 
Component B:  Building Institutional Capacity of the Health Insurance Fund.
 This component supports 
the establishment of a single health insurance fund by means of consolidating the four existing health 
insurance schemes and expanding its reach to an additional 22 million citizens who are presently not fully 
covered.  
 
Component C:  Reorganizing  the delivery of healthcare services. 
 This component has four sub-
components, namely:  (i) adoption of family medicine as an organizational model for the provision of 
outpatient or primary health care services; (ii) integration and harmonization of MOH and Social Security 
Institute (SSK) hospitals towards greater autonomy; and (iii) building a new patient referral mechanism to 
re-enforce system hierarchy.  A fourth sub-component will focus mostly on population health programs, 
including disease surveillance, maternal and child health, prevention and control of Non-communicable 
diseases (NCDs).  The reorganization will be implemented in a phased manner, with pilots during Phase I, 
to be rolled out nationwide during the second phase. 
 
Page  4
 
 
Component D: Strengthening Human Resources Capacity
 
aims at developing skills and competence of 
health work force, in line with the changing role of the MOH and its affiliated institutions.  It has two 
sub-components: (i) health workforce policy and planning; and (ii) strengthening the School of Public 
Health, to become a center of excellence in advocacy, training and research for the MOH. 
 
Component E: Building Infostructure for Health and Social Security. 
 This component
 
supports the 
development of national standards in line with the realignment of institutional roles and responsibilities.  
This will be done in a phased manner; first with the development of standards and the establishment of 
records and information network in the social security system, and thereafter the establishment of network 
and information flows between the social security system and the hospitals.  It has two sub-components: 
(i) building health information system and (ii) building social security information system. 
 
Component F: Project Management.
  This component provides support for project coordination between 
the two ministries, overall project governance, with additional support to that of Government’s PTH, and 
project administration.  
 
The proposed HTP will be designed and implemented in parallel with the proposed PPSAL, which will 
provide budgetary support for the overhaul and reform of the social security system.  The synergies and 
inter-linkages between the two projects will provide both investment and budgetary support for the health 
reform agenda of the Government. 
 
5. Financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER 14.86 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
56.36 
Total 71.22 
 
6. Implementation 
 
While there will not be any parallel or co-financing from other international agencies, agreements in 
principle have been reached both with the EU and WHO with regard to (i) EU’s substantial technical and 
financial support to MOLSS through a grant of approx EURO 50 million to build its social security 
information platform and network and (ii) WHO’s Biennial Collaborative Agreement with MOH for CY 
04-05.  Accordingly, both the EU and Bank will share information regarding the scope of their work, and 
tendering and procurement of goods and consultant services for the MOLSS to prevent any duplication 
and to ensure that their respective investments will complement each other.  Similarly, WHO has agreed 
to provide technical assistance to MOH with regard to the Monitoring and Evaluation of the 
Government’s PTH which will also receive financial support under Component A. 
 
The program will be implemented jointly by the MOH and the MOLSS.  The existing IASC will remain 
in force and be in charge of project oversight project progress and performance, inter-agency 
coordination, provision of policy guidelines.  In addition, a
 
National Advisory Board (NAB), composed 
of reputable academics and private sector representatives, will be set up to review the performance of the 
Government’s Program of Transition in Health.  A Technical Working Group (TWG) for each component 
and/or subcomponent will address technical issues such as preparation of TORs, review of proposals and 
technical advice and provide assistance to the Project Manager and IASC. 
 
Component B, Building Institutional Capacity of Health Insurance Fund and Subcomponent E.2, Building 
Social Security Information System, will be implemented by the MOLSS and the remaining component 
Page  5
 
 
and subcomponents will be implemented by the MOH.  A PIU in each ministry will be established and 
will be responsible for procurement, disbursement, and accounting for ministerial-level activities. 
 
A Project Management Support Unit (PMSU) headed by a Project Manager will have overall fiduciary 
responsibilities and is responsible for overall project implementation, including cooperation with the 
World Bank.  The PMSU reports to the IASC and will coordinate project implementation for both 
ministries through each ministry’s PIUs.  
 
 
An
 
Inter Agency Working Group (IAWG), composed of four technical staff, two from each Ministry, will 
be appointed for full time technical support to the Project Manager.  The IAWG will be responsible for 
the preparation of workplans, timing of activities, preparation of TORs, etc., in coordination with TWGs, 
as appropriate, and with technical support from the Management Consultant Firm to be hired under the 
project.  The technical coordination by the IAWG is critical because of the implementation arrangements 
agreed with the Borrower. 
 
The budget for the project (both the counterpart funding and the World Bank-financed part) will be 
included in the annual budgets of respective ministries.  There will be one SA for the project at the 
Central Bank of Turkey and the PMSU will be responsible in managing this account.  Respective 
ministries will be responsible from managing payments for the counterpart funds and obtaining approval 
of the Ministry of Finance’s Payment Office for the payments from the Special Account.  A copy of the 
payment documents related to the counterpart funds will be submitted to the PMSU for project accounting 
purposes. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Reform efforts in Turkey have been marginally successful because of various political compromises 
required to sustain the political administration of the Government.  As a result, most of the promised 
reforms floundered in the past decades, and at best have resulted in marginal changes.  These past efforts 
have little to show in terms of positive long-term outcome in improving the health status of the 
population.  This is in spite of the seemingly growing economy during the past years.  The political 
compromises and expediencies required to maintain political stability became the norms. 
 
For the first time in decades, the present Government of Turkey has a significant majority in the 
Parliament.  The Government came into political power based on a program of reform.  In the health 
sector, the reform commitment is presented in the official publication, Program of Transition in Health 
(PTH), that publicly commits the present Government to reform the sector based on certain principles 
with a series of planned legislative actions.  A series of bills are now winding through the parliament 
supportive of the reform agenda of the Government.  The public administration reform law is the organic 
law that will set the stage of reforming the various institutions of government.  After the passage of the 
public administration reform law, the law on the reorganization of the Ministry of Health will 
immediately follow.  The law reorganizing the MOH will serve as the foundation that will establish the 
other units to be supported by the project. 
 
The passage of the Universal Health Insurance Law and adoption of its implementing rules and 
regulations will be critical in accomplishing the sustainable financing of quality health care for everyone, 
the main objective of the Government and the project.  However, before the law can be adopted by the 
parliament, the MOLSS and the MOH will need to carryout various studies, i.e., the actuarial modeling of 
the new system, testing of IT systems, etc., to support the implementation of the expanded universal 
health insurance scheme.  Through the initial project, the institutional capacity of the MOH and MOLSS 
will be strengthened to implement the reforms on a sustainable basis.  The passage of the Universal 
Health Insurance Law and the Law on reorganizing the MOH is critical to successful implementation of 
Page  6
 
 
the reform program.  In order to ensure that the legislative framework is in place and the institutional 
environment becomes conducive to deepen the planned health sector reform, the policy triggers for the 
follow-up operations are designed to support these efforts of the Government.   
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The Health Transition Project will be the Bank’s fourth engagement in the HNP sector in Turkey.  The 
previous First Health Project and the Second Health Project were investment projects which aimed to 
strengthen the delivery of health services in the country.  The Primary Health Care Services Project 
(PHCSP)  was basically a reform-oriented project.  Due to the failure of the government at the time to get 
the necessary legislative framework passed, the project could not be implemented and eventually the loan 
of the PHCSP was cancelled without disbursement. 
 
Turkey’s past macroeconomic instability and uncertain political environment were the main reasons 
behind less-than- optimal project implementation.  Delays in counterpart funding, numerous policy and 
personnel changes, as well as periods of inaction hindered timely project implementation which in turn 
led to numerous project extensions. 
 
The presence of a single party government with its large parliamentary majority may ease some of those 
problems that have been experienced in the past.  However, other issues, mostly related to staffing and 
day-to-day project management capability of the MOH may still hinder effective project implementation. 
These include: (i) high staff turnover, with the consequent loss of project memory and skills; (ii) 
resentment by the civil servants of the high consultants fees, often leading to rivalry and delays in 
clearance and approval of deliverables; (iii) lack of additional financial incentives and limited career 
opportunities for civil servants who often have to work longer hours at Bank projects; (iv) relying on 
external procurement agencies and the subsequent problems of compatibility with Government’s own 
rules and regulations; (v) inability to fully integrate MOH’s technical and operational staff and 
capabilities with project design and operations, and the subsequent lack of ownership by and 
disengagement of the MOH staff from project activities. 
 
Many of these issues are not particular to Turkey, affecting the effectiveness of most Bank operations, 
especially in the social sector.  Several measures have been taken to mitigate the problems mentioned 
above, both in terms of the proposed project management structure and the way the project has been 
prepared.  For example, all relevant MOH technical units have been fully informed of project scope and 
purpose, and actively participated in the definition of project activities.  In addition, it is worth 
mentioning that the Government has passed a new public procurement law which should mitigate some of 
the past problems.  Finally, given the nature of the project, quite different form a typical investment 
operation with its high degree of reliance on technical assistance and with focus on system reform rather 
than investing in infrastructure and equipment, a project management consultant firm will be hired and 
twinned with the PMSU for continuous technical and logistic support and hands-on capacity building. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies
 (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) [ 
] 
[x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Page  7
 
 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 [ 
] 
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
The Phase I of this Program will not trigger any safeguard policies. 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
World Bank.  Turkey:  Reforming the Health Sector for Improved Access and Efficiency
, Report No. 
24358-TU.  Washington, DC.  March 2003. 
 
Republic of Turkey, Ministry of Health.  Transformation in Health
.  Ankara, Turkey.  June 2003. 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Dr. Enis Baris 
Title: Sr Public Health Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-4474 
Fax: (202) 614-0947 
Email: ebaris@worldbank.org 
 
12. 
For more information contact
: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
 
