Report No. PID5591
Project Name                     Cameroon-Agricultural Research and (@#)
Extension Program Support Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       CMPE45348
Borrower                         Government of Cameroon
Implementation                   Ministry of Agriculture
Directorate for Agricultural Production
Yaounde Tel and Fax: 237 316702
Date of initial PID              June 14, 1996
Projected Board Date             June 16, 1998
Project Cost                     US$45.5 million
Proposed IDA Credit              US$15 million
Financing Plan
Government of Cameroon                                    $12.9 million
International Fund for Agricultural
Development                                               $  7.3 million
African Development Bank                                  $10.3 million
IDA                                                       $15.0 million
1.      Background.   The agricultural sector in Cameroon is the country's most
accessible future source of growth. It currently accounts for more than 30
percent of GDP, contributes 27 percent towards export earnings and employs 75
percent of the national labor force. Some 1.3 million farm families,
comprising almost 8 million rural dwellers, mostly smallholders, account for
about 65 percent of the country's total population.
2.      Project Objectives are to support the Government's agricultural extension
strategy. The project will contribute to improve agricultural productivity
and incomes of men and women farmers, through the delivery of sustainable
professional agricultural and livestock advisory services, backed up by
relevant research services and the adoption of improved husbandry techniques.
Progress in achieving these objectives will be evaluated by (i) the increase
in the numbers of farmers, particularly women, directly receiving advisory
services; (ii) the level of adoption of new technical messages; and (iii) the
impact of these technical messages in levels on farm incomes.
3.      Project Description. The project supports improvement in the quality of
the delivery of agricultural extension services by regular training of field
staff, close links between research and extension, regular supervision,
mobility of staff at all levels and regular monitoring and evaluation of
activities. In addition, a pilot initiative will be supported to rehabilitate
a number of agricultural colleges to improve the levels of training of
agricultural technicians. The project components include:
(a) Agricultural Extension (sub-components include participatory diagnosis of
farmers' production problems, transfer of environmentally sustainable improved



farming techniques, particularly to resource-poor and women farmers,
availability of improved seeds and breeding stock, increased use of mass
media, monitoring of the progress of extension and research activities);
(b) Agricultural Research (sub-components include strengthening of IRAD's
agricultural research services, on-station research, training of IRAD staff,
the interface between research and extension, including training of subject
matter specialists, on-farm trials and on-farm diagnosis, and the
establishment of a Competitive Grant Fund to finance research projects
originating in the participatory diagnosis work undertaken with farmers at
village level);
(c) Training and Human Resources Development (comprising a large number of
staff training programs, including training on participatory assessment of
farmers technology transfer needs by different socio-economic strata, training
of staff on gender issues in agricultural production, training in environment
conservation, in post harvest and product processing, in group market links
development, as well as pilot proposal to rehabilitate two/three agricultural
colleges for basic and refresher training of agricultural technicians
operating in the public and private sector);
(d) Support for Farmers' Organizations and Links with the Private Sector
(supporting the efforts of the SOASP unit of PNVA to develop formal and
informal contacts between farmer groups/associations and private sector
suppliers of agricultural inputs and crop processing equipment, traders,
industrial purchasers of agricultural products, etc. and to assist groups in
handling contractual arrangements with the private sector).
(e) Pilot project in support of Village Community Initiatives; (testing
effective ways to identify genuine common interest groups willing to invest
their own resources (cash and labour) to implement community projects of their
own initiative; to identify specific training requirements that would enable
the project initiators to negotiate and control the implementation of their
project by third parties, and to maintain any asset constructed by
implementing the project and to e; and and
stablish the need for matching grant finance of the community initiated
projects, including criteria to study the conditions under which such need
really arises, and to quantify the need for such finance.
(f) Project Impact Evaluation. (including regular review and analysis of
information internally generated by the extension staff; assistance to the
extension field staff in performing the financial evaluation of the expected
net benefits of adopting the technologies extended to farmers and support to
the SOASP units in contracting and reviewing market studies and crop
processing project proposals. DEPA will recruit an economist to perform these
duties; external evaluation of project impact through (a) specific ad hoc
technology adoption case studies, (b) beneficiaries' assessment studies, and
(c) base line and update surveys of agricultural production of a fixed sample
of farmers. Furthermore, and independent evaluation of the research projects
financed under the Competitive research Grant Fund.
4.      Project Financing - Total cost of the project is estimated at US$45.5
million, of which US$28.7 million investment and US$16.8 million recurrent.
IDA will provide US$8.6 million for part of the costs of the Agricultural
extension component, US$2.9 million towards the costs of the Agricultural
research component, US$2.6 million towards the Training and Human Resource
Development Component, US$ 0.3 million for the Support to Farmers'
Organizations and Private Sector Linkages component, US$0.2 million towards
support of the village-level community development initiative and US$0.3
million for external monitoring and evaluation and studies. IFAD will fund
US$4.2 million towards the costs of the extension component, US$1.4 million
-2 -



towards the Agricultural Research component, US$1.3 million for Training and
Human Resource Development component, US$0.1 million towards Support to
Farmers' Organizations and Private Sector Linkages component, US$0.1 million
towards support of the village-level community development initiative and
US$0.2 million for Monitoring and Evaluation and Studies. The African
Development Fund will provide US$10 million towards the cost of the
Agricultural Research component.
5.      The project financing plan provides for US$12.9 million (including taxes)
from Government, which represents 20 percent of the total net-of-tax costs.
The balance of US$32 million would be funded jointly between IDA, IFAD and the
African Development Fund. Taxes and duties amount to US$4.2 million over 4
years.
6.      Project Implementation - Project oversight and coordination of the
components directly under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture
(Agricultural Extension, Training and Human Resource Development, Farmer
Organization Support and private Sector Linkages, Village-based participative
community development, internal Monitoring and Evaluation of extension,
financial management and control) will be the responsibility of the
Directorate for Agricultural Production. The national coordinator will be the
Deputy Director, DPA, responsible for the Agricultural Extension Division.
This officer will also have responsibility for the research/extension linkages
sub-component and will act as secretary for the competitive research grant
fund sub-component. Given the important management role played by the
national coordinator, the candidate for this post will possess qualifications
and experience which are acceptable to IFAD and IDA. A deputy coordinator has
been nominated by the Ministry of Livestock to ensure close collaboration with
this Ministry. Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock staff will be deployed
in accordance with the September 1997 Agreement signed between the two
Ministries. IRAD will be responsible for the three agricultural research sub-
components funded by the African Development Bank, concerned with the
rehabilitation of IRAD's research structure, on-station research and training
of IRAD staff. The Division of Studies and Projects (DEPA) will be
responsible for external Monitoring and Evaluation and for the coordination of
major studies.
7.      The Agricultural Extension component represents a continuation of support
for the Government's national agricultural extension policy started under the
ongoing National Agricultural Extension and Training project (Ln 3185-CM). A
major objective of this policy is to consolidate and harmonize a diversity of
sources of support for agricultural extension leading to a more rational use
of resources. The role of the National Agricultural Extension Program is to
ensure that advisory services reach as many livestock and crop farmers as
possible, giving priority to direct services to resource poor and small
farmers foodcrop producers. The program uses an approach which highlights
participation among extension staff, researchers and farmers in on-farm
diagnosis and adaptive research and regular training of field staff and
farmers. The main tools include work programming, regular training, use of
loose contact groups made up of farmers sharing similar interests, individual
on-farm demonstration plots and on-farm trials with research and extension
staff.
8.      Some 1,700 multidisciplinary field agents, backed by about 350
supervisory staff, 250 subject matter specialists, and over 200 research staff
-3 -



will provide advisory services to farmers at all levels of technical
advancement. The zonal extension worker (AVZ) is the link pin between farmers
and herders and sources of technology and information. Each AVZ will cover
between 500 and 1,000 farm families (an average of 800 nationally), according
to population density and the state of communications and rural roads.
Coverage is expected to be lower in remote areas and will represent increased
average costs for targeting remote and poor families. For the majority of
smallholder farmers, face-to-face contact will be through regular meetings
between the AVZ and contact groups. These will be organized in such a way as
to distinguish groups of farmers belonging to different social strata and
taking gender into account. Larger farmers and planters will receive technical
advice from subject matter specialists on the basis of flexible timetables
defined in joint consultation between SMS and farmers. They will be gradually
encouraged to obtain farm specific demonstration and technical advice from
private technicians on a commercial basis. Market oriented small farmers and
cash crop producers will be encouraged to join associations and to purchase
specialized technical advice on similar arrangements. Identification and
diagnosis of production- and post-harvest-related problems will be undertaken
jointly by extension and research staff with farmers throughout the year, on
the basis of work programs defined under contracts prepared at provincial
levels. The number of female extension staff will be increased by recruitment
of 200 such staff on renewable contracts on a pilot basis. Some 52 farmers'
organization specialists (SOASPs), operating at the regional level, under
supervision from staff at provincial and central level will interact between
farmers organizations, agricultural merchants and suppliers and NGOs to ensure
reliable flow of information of market opportunities and to "broker"
agreements between the national extension services and the services of private
sector partners. They will be assisted by a post-harvest/crop processing
subject matter specialist posted initially at provincial level. An economist
financial analyst to be posted in the M&E unit will assist with market survey
and financial analysis of proposed investments which will be sub-contracted to
private individuals and NGOs whenever appropriate. An environmental subject
matter specialist in each province has been appointed to ensure consistency
between technical recommendations and environmental sustainability. Close
linkages with agricultural research staff will be ensured through renewable
work programs prepared by provincial agricultural research and extension staff
and funded by MINAGRI.
9.      The program will cover all ten provinces of Cameroon, an increase over
the six provinces included originally under the preceding project. The next
phase of funding in support of agricultural extension will concentrate on
improving the quality and increasing coverage of the services. In particular,
greater attention will be paid to animal husbandry extension. The coverage of
the extension services will be broadened so as to benefit more women farmers
and also to target those farmers who are among the poorest. Participation by
farmers in programming agricultural extension and research will be intensified
by continued emphasis on on-farm diagnosis by extension and researchers.
Training in diagnosis techniques will remain a priority. The present practice
will be complemented by introducing a simple method to assess the different
problems facing resource poor farmers and women foodcrop producers, forming
separate contact groups of these farmers when required, and to ensure that the
requirements of those farmers are included in the work plans. To complement
on-farm diagnosis, two further approaches will be developed to resolve
problems, whose solution cannot necessarily be found on-farm. The first will
be to continue support for solutions to agricultural input delivery and
- 4 -



marketing problems being developed in conjunction with the private sector,
farmers associations with staff from the Farmer Organizations and Links with
the Private Sector Support unit (SOASPs). The second will be to initiate a
pilot project in support of village-level community development diagnosis,
based on successful experience of such an approach elsewhere in the region.
The use of mass media will be strengthened to complement the participatory
approach to extension. Seed production and multiplication will continue to
receive support. In particular, national seeds legislation will be finalized,
and women's groups and smallscale individual farmers will be encouraged to
multiply improved seeds. In order to maintain the new levels of commitment
among extension staff, an award system based on merit will be introduced for
extension and research staff. Private sector partners have already expressed
willingness to participate in such a system.
10.     The project provides resources to encourage testing alternative
technology delivery systems on a pilot basis. Study tours, including public
and private sector representatives will be organized to countries beyond the
Africa Region to compare experiences which could be of relevance to Cameroon.
Certain extension activities, such as training, extension, monitoring and
evaluation, on-farm trials, could be sub-contracted to NGOs, private companies
or training institutes, which demonstrate necessary capability and who agree
to respect the principles of the national extension policy. Funds are
included under the project to allow for subcontracting such selected extension
activities to third parties.
11.     The Directorate for Agricultural Projects and Studies (DEPA) will be
responsible for external monitoring and evaluation of project impact. The
DEPA will work closely with the Monitoring and Evaluation staff of the PNVA
national coordination unit, who are responsible for monitoring the internal
progress of the extension and research programs on the ground. A single
monitoring and evaluation system will monitor indicators of performance for
both research and extension services. This system will be based on two
levels. The internal monitoring system is based on information collected
during daily farm visits by the front level staff. This information will be
used to gauge the impact of the extension and research services according to
objectives and indicators agreed with supervisors. Rates of adoption of
technical messages will be the main measure of impact of the extension and
research services. The second level would involve: (a) a series of annual
in-depth technology adoption/rejection case studies based on limited samples;
(b) a rural household survey of about 2,000 households to be undertaken in the
second and fourth year with the same methodology as the baseline survey
carried out in 1998, to acquire an insight on the overall impact of the
project on production, and (c) an external beneficiary assessment to be
carried out in the first and third year of the project. Furthermore, the M&E
component includes the appointment of an economist/financial analyst who will
be responsible for supervising the work done at SMS level to check the
financial viability of the technical packages and to assist the SOAPS staff
and the SMS post harvest/processing/marketing technologies in assessing
investment proposal and contracting specific studies as required in their
activities.
12.     Under the Research component, the African Development Bank will fund
three sub-components in direct support of the National Agricultural Research
Institute for Development (IRAD) over the next five years. These sub-
components include rehabilitation of the physical infrastructure of selected
- 5 -



IRAD stations, purchase of equipment, provision of technical assistance,
documentation and operating costs of research staff; funding of demand-driven
research programs; and local and overseas training of IRAD research staff.
Technical and institutional responsibility for implementation of these sub-
components will be with the Director General of IRAD, a relatively young
institution created in March 1996, following the fusion of separate research
institutes for agronomy and livestock research. Under a fourth sub-component
research and extension activities will be funded by way of contracts drawn up
between the provincial agricultural services and the research
stations/centers, corresponding to those provinces. The services to be
provided under these contracts include regular training by research staff of
subject matter specialists on techniques, identified as priority by farmers;
tests and trials in farmers' fields of potential solutions to priority
problems identified during on-farm diagnosis; and the costs for researchers
involved in carrying out on-farm diagnosis with extension staff and farmers.
Under a fifth sub-component a Fund for on-station research on themes
identified by the participatory diagnostic work will be established with joint
IFAD/IDA finance. Access to this fund will be available to public and private
research outfits on a competitive basis. Management of the fund will be
entrusted to a eight-member Committee of representatives of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Ministry of Livestock, IRAD, the University of Dschang, AGROCOM,
the Federation of Cameroon farmers, a representative of a women's' farming
group and a representative of a small farmers' associations (such as FENAPAC)
13.     The Training and Resource Management component will be the responsibility
of a unit within the sub-Directorate for Agricultural Extension, represented
at the center and in each of the 10 provinces. Local and overseas training
will be programmed according to a training plan, agreed annually (see
Technical Annex for 1998 training program). In addition to in-service
training objectives for staff, resources under this component are included for
developing a strategy for basic training of agricultural technicians. A
further quantitative study is required to follow up on an FAO Study of the
Reform of Agricultural Teaching and Training to determine the demand and
supply for agricultural technicians. An outcome of this study could be the
implementation of a pilot initiative to rehabilitate two/three agricultural
colleges. The studies would be carried out by the Direction des Etudes et
Projets Agricoles, in close collaboration with the appropriate services of the
Secretariat General of the Ministry of Agriculture. The national project
Coordinator's office will liaise closely with these offices on the proposed
follow-up and rehabilitation work, which is not expected to begin before the
third year of the project.
14.     The Farmer Organization Support and Private Sector Linkages component
will support efforts of the SOASP unit of PNVA to develop contractual, formal
and informal contacts between farmer associations and groups and private
sector suppliers of agricultural inputs, agricultural merchants, purchasers of
agricultural products. Funding will be made available by the PNVA to improve
communications between regional and provincial level specialists in farmers'
associations and private sector linkages (SOASP), to fund training of farmer
group representatives and enable group representatives to undertake study
visits both within and outside Cameroon.
15.     The Village-based participative community development pilot will be
carried out under the overall coordination of the national PNVA unit by joint
teams of staff from the Ministry of Agriculture's Community Development
- 6 -



Department in collaboration with Subject Matter Specialists, SOASPs and
Community Development Agents from the provincial and regional levels. The
results of this pilot will be monitored and evaluated by the Ministry's
Agricultural Projects and Studies Directorate, with a view to preparing a
larger scale project for external funding, on the basis of successful
implementation of the pilot.
16.     Implementation Period - The project will fund the next four-year
investment period in support of the national extension and research programs.
Starting after credit effectiveness during the second semester of 1998,
funding provided jointly by the Cameroon Government, IFAD, AfDB and IDA is
sufficient to meet the program needs for extension and research activities in
Cameroon's 10 provinces until June 2003. During the third year of the
project, an evaluation of impact will be undertaken and preparation work on
the next phase of external funding in support of the national programs will be
defined.
17.     Project Sustainability - The long term sustainability of the national
extension program depends on: (a) the priority given to the program by MINAGRI
decision-makers at the time of the formulation of the annual budget, (b) the
design and implementation of effective measures to control better the release
of funds allocated to extension under the Budget, (c) the speed at which cost
sharing arrangements develop and the amount of budget resources this will
eventually free for other uses, (d) the efficiency with which Government will
achieve cost reduction through eliminating less priority activities and
related sources of expenditure, and (e) the efforts of the Ministry to sub-
contract certain extension activities to private partners and the extent to
which this will provide opportunities for cost-sharing, particularly in
respect of extension efforts for high value export crops.
18.     Lessons learned from past operations in the sector - Over the last 10
years, the Bank has funded 5 projects in the agricultural sector in Cameroon.
A National Agricultural Research project (Ln 2766-CM - closed 1993), a Cocoa
Rehabilitation project (Ln 2912-CM - closed 1995) and a Livestock Sector
Development project (Ln 3014-CM - closed in June, 1996). A Food Security
project (Ln 3388-CM - three components of the project are still effective) and
a National Agricultural Extension and Training project (Ln 3185-CM - which
will close, when the new Credit has been approved) are still ongoing. With
the exception of the latter, these projects have had only limited impact on
improving growth in the agriculture sector and production and productivity of
Cameroon's rural poor. ICRs concluded that project benefits were
unsustainable.
19.     Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
Lesson 1. Stand-alone project management structures rarely ensure sustainable
institution building. The new project is designed to support IRAD and MINAGRI
existing central and field structures, intended to ensure a permanent
agricultural advisory service, capable of continuing, when external funding is
no longer available.
Lesson 2. Many Bank-funded projects have concentrated on capital-intensive
investments and achieved few tangible results among beneficiaries on the
ground. This project is field-orientated and support is concentrated on
ensuring that more than 2,000 front line staff, researchers and subject matter
- 7 -



specialists are provided with the means (training, transportation, supervision
and light equipment) to respond directly to demand from their farmer clients.
Lesson 3. Projects with a high degree of local participation in preparation
have resulted in better results. The project and the national extension
program has been fully designed by a national team, under Bank staff
supervision but with no external technical assistance.
Lesson 4. Decentralization of many decisions and activities to the provinces
and independent financial and personnel management services have been
responsible for improved efficiency under previous projects. Strengthening of
these features has been included in the project design.
Lesson 5. Experience with the ongoing extension project and projects
elsewhere has underlined the importance of close contacts between research and
extension, implication of the private sector, regular and continuous training,
close participation of farmers and clear work programming. These are building
blocks of the new project.
Lesson 6. The IBRD-funded Research project experience underscored the
importance of designing a research apparatus taking account of the recurrent
cost burden on the State. Strong decentralization, client participation in
research and application of private sector principles were recommended, which
have been reflected in new project design.
20.     Poverty category - The project will be a poverty-targeted intervention
(PTI). A major thrust of the project is to coordinate the poverty alleviation
and agricultural development policies of the Government. The project will
address the problem of how to reach the poor and how to ensure that action is
taken to solve their problems on a priority basis. Important modifications in
the modus operandi of extension staff will be introduced to that effect.
These include:
participatory identification of different social strata at village level;
identification of production problems affecting different social strata and by
gender;
there will be several contact groups consisting of representatives of
different social strata and gender;
continuous participatory diagnosis will be done with different contact groups;
demand for services and identification of priority research themes will be
recorded by different contact group identifying those which are common to all
social strata, and those which are specific to poor farmers and women.
Environmental aspects - The project is rated B for environment purposes. An
environmental analysis was completed in June 1997, which includes an
evaluation of the environmental impact of the ongoing PNVA, and
recommendations for the next phase. The evaluation concluded that the PNVA
has contributed to environment protection through promotion of technologies
which tend to conserve resources and to mitigate the adverse effect of
expanding agricultural production, particularly in the areas which are most
fragile, such as the Northern and Western provinces. Recommendations for
improvement include many detailed suggestions. Examples of the most important
recommendations which can be implemented in practice, without endangering the
demand driven policy of the PNVA include: further work on IPM to reduce the
use of chemical pesticides, continued emphasis on composting to reduce need
for chemical fertilizers, measures to prevent water pollution from treatment
of highly toxic cassava varieties, more emphasis on associations of legume
- 8 -



cover crops on fallow land. Participatory diagnosis of environmental problems
should be included in the diagnostic work. A training program for extension
staff, in particular for the newly created SMS-environment posts, and for the
AVZ is recommended, including contracting training with the Universities
special units on environment. These recommendations are included in the
project design. A copy of the environmental analysis (in French) is attached
to the present document.
Program Objective Categories    - Poverty (509) and WD (50%)
21.     Project benefits - Project objectives envisage an increase in net farm
incomes of 20 percent among farmers receiving extension services over the next
four years. Examples under the ongoing project of the impact of the adoption
of simple cost-effective messages, requiring little or no cash investment by
farmers, have shown productivity and production increases of between 30 and
200 percent (see details in the Project Implementation Plan). Rates of
adoption by contact farmers of new technology are expected to increase from 30
percent currently to 80 percent by the end of 2002, as improved training and
mobility provide extension staff with the tools necessary to respond to
farmers' needs. Extension staff objectives will be to reach directly one
third of Cameroon's 1.3 million farm families by the 4th year of operations,
up from one tenth in 1995/96. This represents a ratio of approximately 240
farmers contacted directly by each extension agent every fortnight - or 3
contact groups of 10 farmers met every day. These are within attainable
limits.
22.     Economic Rate of Return - The economic rate of return (IER) for the
project, based on the incremental value of production from farm models
prepared for the three main agro-ecological zones of Cameroon is 41 percent.
The NPV, discounting at 10 %, is USD$27 million.    The estimates are relatively
insensitive to changes in the number of farmers contacted by extension staff
and to changes in the costs of production. However, the IER is relatively
sensitive to changes in local market prices (after taking account of
deflationary impact of increased production on local market prices) and
extremely sensitive to changes in yields and production.
23.     Project Risks - Historical project experience and the overall poor state
of the lending portfolio in Cameroon suggests a substantial level of risk for
the successful outcome of this project. Among the specific risks figure (i)
the quality of the manager appointed to coordinate the project; (ii) lack of
improvement in levels of public service conditions; (iii) failure to adopt an
efficient new mechanism for approval and release of funds from national
budget; (iv) support for on farm research and training activities which are
not rigorously tied to national extension staff development objectives; and
(v) less than full transparency in the operation of the Competitive Research
Fund.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
-9-



Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 29, 1998.
- 10 -



