                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 30950

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (COFN-04230 IDA-31370)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.4 MILLION (US$15.1 MILLION)

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

                                                FOR THE

                              NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
                          AND RESEARCH PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT




                                           December 16, 2004




Environmental, Rural and Social Development, Central Africa (AFTS3)
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

(Exchange Rate Effective as of June 2004. The parity of the CFAF with the French franc, previously fixed
                           at 50/1, was realigned to 100/1 on January 1994.)

                                     Currency Unit = CFAF
                                        CFAF 1000 = US$ 1.8
                                              US$ 1 = CFAF 550

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1     December 31


                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



ADB           African Development Bank
AVZ           Agent de Vulgarisation de Zone
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FRR           Financial Rate of Return
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
IFAD          Internacional Fund for Agricultural Development
IRAD          Institut de Recherche Agricole pour le Développement
MINAGRI       Ministère de l'Agriculture
MINEPIA       Ministère de l'Elevage, Pêche et Industrie animale
NGO           Non Governmental Organizations
NVP           Net Value Present
PNVRA         Projet National de Vulgarisation et Recherche Agricole
PO            Producer Organizations
QAG           Quality Assurance Group




                                    Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani
                                  Country Director       Ali M. Khadr
                                    Sector Manager       Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Ousmane Seck

                                        CAMEROON
          National Agricultural Extension and Research Program Support Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 33

Project ID: P045348                                                  Project Name: National Agricultural Extension and
                                                                     Research Program Support Project
Team Leader: Ousmane Seck                                            TL Unit: AFTS3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: National Agricultural Extension and Research             L/C/TF Number: COFN-04230; IDA-31370
                            Program Support Project
   Country/Department: CAMEROON                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (57%); Central government
                            administration (38%); Agricultural marketing and trade (3%); Other
                            social services (2%)
                  Theme: Rural markets (P); Other rural development (P); Administrative and
                            civil service reform (S); Participation and civic engagement (S);
                            Technology diffusion (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/12/1996                                     Effective: 06/09/1999
     Appraisal: 07/16/1998                                         MTR: 06/30/2000                  07/13/2001
      Approval: 10/15/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF CAMEROON/MIN. OF AGRIC. & INSTITUTE FOR
                                           AGRIC. RESEARCH FOR DEVELOP.
                      Other Partners:      ADB, IFAD

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Ali Mahmoud Khadr                              Serge Michailof
Sector Manager:                 Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                             Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Team Leader at ICR:             Ousmane Seck                                   Christopher Trapman
ICR Primary Author:             Turto Turtiainen (Consultant)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
As a follow-on intervention to the National Project for Agricultural Extension (PNVA), the National
Agricultural Extension and Research Program Support Project (PNVRA) undertook to finance --jointly
with Government, IFAD and AfDB-- implementation of the national agricultural extension policy and
agricultural research in the entire country as follows: competitive research grants and extension (IDA),
linkages between agricultural research and extension (IFAD), and on-station agricultural research (AfDB),
with the exception of staff costs that continued to be the Government's responsibility. The development
objective of the National Agricultural Extension and Research Program Support Project was to contribute
to improving agricultural productivity and incomes in Cameroon in a sustainable way. To attain the
development objectives, the project aimed: (a) to provide support to an integrated, farmer-oriented
agricultural extension system; (b) to provide support to a demand-driven agricultural research system; (c)
to complete a reform of the Department of Agricultural Production at the Ministry of Agriculture started
during the predecessor project (National Project for Agricultural Extension); (d) to assist market-oriented
farmers to develop professional associations; and (e) to test alternative methods for delivering agricultural
services. While aiming at providing services to all farmers, the project was to give adequate priority to
"resource-poor" and women farmers. Quantitative targets for the objectives were detailed in the logical
framework of the project.

At the time of appraisal, the project development objectives were important for Cameroon which is
essentially an agricultural country with a very large portion of poor farmers. Agricultural production in the
1990s was disappointing and there was plenty of room to improve the yields and productivity in the sector
(see Annex 1). The aims of the project reflected the common but gradually transforming agricultural
strategies in Cameroon and elsewhere in Africa. The strategy was expressed in the Letter of Agricultural
Development Policy, published in 1995, that facilitated economic liberalization and public-sector
withdrawal from direct involvement in production and marketing activities. The strategy for agricultural
extension services, as presented in the Agricultural Extension Policy Statement of 1997, was to rely
essentially on a Training & Visit (T&V) approach, but it included a principle of flexibility, allowing the
national extension system to evolve and be opened to substitution of public services by farmer
organizations and private service providers. Agricultural research was also in a phase of change. The
Government had recently reorganized the agricultural research institutes into a single unit (IRAD) and that
unit, as well as research planning, farmer participation in setting priorities, and making the research system
more effective through a competitive approach, required support to get implemented as planned.

In general, the project objectives responded to the Government's strategy and sector issues as identified in
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy Paper for Cameroon in the late 1990s. They also took into account
IFAD's specific interests, also endorsed by the World Bank, to give special emphasis on the needs of the
poor and specific problems of women farmers. While the development objective was simple, the project had
several components. The project was relatively complex, but it was made more simple by allocating the
separate components to different cofinanciers and making the organizational arrangements on a
component-by-component basis. In retrospect, it also can be observed that the project did not allocate
enough funds to implement new policies and innovative approaches successfully experimented elsewhere.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The overall project performance was evaluated as satisfactory at the midterm review. However, the
approach used for the bulk of the project (that is, the "Training and Visit" system in agricultural
extension), while having provided a good management framework and initial increases in productivity had



                                                     - 2 -

obviously reached its limits. While the project development objectives were not revised, its activities and
operational approach for its implementation were reoriented in 2002 on the basis of the recommendations
made at the midterm review for a more effective extension service delivery. Furthermore, it had become
apparent that project disbursements were behind the schedule and that there had been specific problem
areas, such as slow start in procurement and agricultural research.

The strategy for reorienting the project approach was to improve the impact by decentralizing and trimming
the public-sector operations, allowing the responsibility ("driver's seat") for planning of local agricultural
services to go to the farmers, expanding the activities of the producer organizations and private firms
associated with agricultural production, and encouraging producer organizations to make small investments
in production and processing of produce. As a result of the reorientation, the project description was
modified by incorporating the new priority activities within its existing legal framework to reflect the new
understanding of the methods necessary to attain its development objectives. Thus, a new disbursement
subcategory was established under the farmer organizations component, namely provision of small grants
for financing productive "subprojects" initiated by producer organizations. Through two amendments, an
amount of US$1.8 million was reallocated from the agricultural extension component to this subcategory.
Finally, a partial shift of focus from public-sector to producer organizations was initiated in the delivery of
extension services, in line with the new paradigm of rural development in Cameroon to the extent possible
and within the resources available.

The Bank's legal department determined that the original development objective was broad enough to cover
the amended approach, and it was unnecessary to bring the amendments of the project's Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) to the Bank's Board for approval.

3.3 Original Components:
The project components and their planned costs, including contingencies, were as follows:

    (a)   Agricultural extension (US$26.1 million, of which IDA financing US$9.4), aimed at (i)
    transferring environmentally sustainable improved technology to producers, with a particular emphasis
    on female farmers; (ii) making available improved seeds; and (iii) increasing the use of mass media.

    (b) Agricultural research (US$14.6 million, of which IDA US$1.0 million), bulk of which was
    financed by ADB under parallel financing arrangements, aimed at (i) strengthening IRAD's
    agricultural research services; (ii) supporting priority activities in on-station research; (iii) training
    IRAD research and management staff; (iv) supporting research/extension linkages; (v) improving the
    quality and efficiency of research through a demand-driven, competitive grant scheme.

    (c) Training and human resource development (US$3.9 million, of which IDA 3.5 million), aimed at
    supporting in-service training and a pilot project to rehabilitate two or three agricultural colleges.

    (d) Farmer organizations support and private-sector linkages (US$0.5 million, of which IDA 0.4
    million), aimed at developing commercial linkages between farmer groups and agricultural merchants
    and suppliers, NGOs, and other partners to improve input supply and marketing of agricultural
    produce.

    (e) Village-based participative community development pilot (US$0.4 million, of which IDA 0.3
    million), was to provide an opportunity to test an approach in a number of villages to: (i) determine
    rural development priorities; (ii) implement action plans; and (iii) obtain the assistance needed from
    various service providers (including extension).



                                                      - 3 -

    (f) Project impact evaluation and studies (US$0.6 million, of which IDA 0.5 million), that facilitated
    financing of external evaluations of project impacts and studies needed for an action plan for rural
    development investments.

3.4 Revised Components:

The description of component (d) "Farmer organizations support and private-sector linkages" was
amended to include a provision of small grants for the financing of subprojects initiated by farmer
organizations consisting of equipment and construction of small infrastructures for production, processing,
storage, and marketing of farm products. Also, the institutional and organizational arrangements as well as
the procedures and conditions for producers to have better access to these grants were clarified.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The appraisal in July 1998 (also called reappraisal) was based on a Quality Assurance Group review of the
draft appraisal document of the project in October 1997, which had been evaluated as unsatisfactory.
Although the project was essentially based on prevailing but in hindsight outdated policies, the appraisal
team took into account the comments of the QAG and the new paradigm that had emerged for rural
development and become widely accepted in the 1990s. According to it, the many development problems of
the rural poor cannot be resolved by the Governments only, but the rural communities themselves have to
become fully engaged in local development efforts and take major responsibility for their management. The
Government's role must be that of a facilitator, finding resources, helping with planning, and providing
public services in activities and areas where the private sector cannot be expected to operate (like providing
extension services to subsistence farmers). The appraisal mission included into the project smaller,
pilot-type components that shifted emphasis away from Government-centered activities and included, for
instance, competitive research grants. The second QAG review in March 1999 acknowledged the
improvements made, but rated the quality at entry still as marginally unsatisfactory.

The final design of the project is rated as satisfactory, although it can be argued that what the project
contained about the new paradigm was too limited. However, the overall outcome of the project was
satisfactory and some components, including extension and village-based community development
component took off very fast after the project approval. The project design took into consideration
weaknesses of the predecessor project and included non-public sector piloting of new innovative
approaches that allowed a relatively easy reorientation of the project two years later, thus improving project
implementation. In addition, the original design of the project tackled critical topics by improving the
quality of delivery of agriculture services and linking of agricultural extension and adaptive research that
were essential for increased agricultural and livestock productivity.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The outcome of the overall project towards which the IDA Credit contributed is rated as satisfactory,
largely because most of the expected results at the end were reached or exceeded, in some cases
substantially. However, progress in different components was uneven. Implementation of the main
component, agricultural extension, started well, partly because it was continuation of a similar activity in
the predecessor project, PNVA (Projet National de Vulgarisation).

The project achievements in this report are based on the information and data provided by the PNVRA


                                                     - 4 -

M&E unit and on an impact study/beneficiary assessment prepared at the end of the project by an external
consultant group (Soft Business Management Consulting Group). The consultant team comprised an
agricultural economist (team leader), an agriculturist, a statistician/biometricien, a statistician/economist, a
rural sociologist, an institutional specialist, a financial specialist, supporting experts from the company,
and field data collectors. The methodology in the study simulated the one used in the baseline study in
1999, covering the same districts and all ecological zones of the country. Using data collectors and
pre-prepared questionnaires, data was collected from a large sample of respondents, consisting of 1,492
producers, 249 producer organizations, 77 extension agents, and 33 researchers. Data on productivity,
production, and income were based on farmers' reports, with no actual field measurement. However,
considering the large sample, the reliability of the overall results can be considered satisfactory.

According to impact studies at the end of the project, the yields and productivity improved among the
farmers who adopted the disseminated agricultural and livestock technologies more than the projected 10
percent annually in nearly all categories of produce. The average farm incomes increased by an estimated
20 percent. More than 520 groups, out of a total 1,277 benefiting under the PO new subcomponent for PO
investments consisted entirely of rural women (42 percent of the total). Nevertheless, the competitive
research sub-component suffered from substantial delays, and it is uncertain whether the objectives of the
thematic research subcomponents, financed by the African Development Fund (and not subject of this
report), will ever be attained. All Bank supervision missions in 1999 to 2004 assessed the achievement of
all other project components, as well as its development objectives as satisfactory.

As for the economic and financial returns, the project met the required targets (See Section 4.3). Several
other development impacts, including substantial institution and capacity building, also can be recorded.
Implementation capacity at the national level was much strengthened, particularly in PNVRA coordination
unit. At the regional and local levels, competency improved in the extension service and among them more
than 13,870 producer groups that were registered as "authorized bodies", as well as in the three contracted
NGOs for the implementation of the extension component in provinces. Despite the delays, the objectives
set for competitive research subcomponent were reached by the end of the project.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The Agricultural Extension Component is rated as satisfactory. The objectives were to continue
supporting a country-wide extension system, to increase the number of farmers in contact with the
extension service from 15 percent to 30 percent of all the farm families in Cameroon by the year 2002, to
have 1,690 agricultural extension agents (Agent de Vulgarisation de Zone--AVZ) in post, with 200 of them
being women, and to increase the overall adoption rates of technical messages in contact groups from 40 to
62 percent (the detailed targets are from the logical framework--see PAD, Annex 1). In three years' time,
the target number of extension agents had been reached and the number of farmers in 58,700 contact
groups reached some 67 percent of rural families. As mentioned, at midterm the project activities were
reoriented so that the agricultural extension agents became more like rural development facilitators in
assisting POs in planning and implementation of their "micro projects", consisting of activity plans for
productive small infrastructure and equipment, and the delivery of related agricultural extension advisory
services as requested by farmers. However, as the mobility weakened at the same time, AVZs were able to
work only with about 13,870 POs. These POs still represented more of the rural population than the
original target percentage, 30 percent. With an addition of mass media support (primarily rural radio
through 10 agreements, and pamphlets), the project still claims having reached two thirds of the rural
population with extension messages. (See Annex 1 for the detailed figures). In addition, the beneficiary
assessment at the end of the project indicated that 93 percent of women in the project zones received
assistance from the project.



                                                      - 5 -

During the last two years of the project, the number of AVZs declined by some 10 percent and the
effectiveness of the fieldwork suffered from extensive delays by IFAD's decision to cancel the purchase of
motorcycles. The Government also failed to provide counterpart funds for operations of the field staff on
time. Nevertheless, as many as 196 agricultural, livestock, and fisheries technical messages were
demonstrated and conveyed to farmers, and the rate of adoption at 48.5 percent and improvement in most
of the crops and products are judged to be satisfactory. Although there were no targets for multiplication
and distribution of improved seeds, in practice 879 farmers were trained for multiplication of seeds and
animal materials in 16 regions.      To ensure that environmental aspects are sufficiently considered in
formulating the messages and micro projects, PNVRA has recruited an environmental technician for each
of its provincial offices.

The Agricultural Research Component was to be financed by all three cofinanciers. However, because
the African Development Fund provided parallel financing for the research it funded and carried out its
own supervision and is expected to prepare a separate ICR, only the subcomponents for extension/research
linkages and competitive research grants are discussed in this report. Implementation of these
subcomponents is rated as satisfactory, with some reservations mentioned in the following paragraphs.
(Overall, the component was considered as unsatisfactorily implemented in all supervision reports until
2002, mainly because of the delays in ADB-financed subcomponents.)

The extension/research linkages (or the interface of research and development, as it is also called) contained
joint IRAD/MINAGRI/MINEPIA activities, such as: (a) joint participatory diagnosis of farming systems in
conjunction with farmers and livestock breeders (and development of appropriate technological messages);
(b) training of subject matter specialists at monthly technology review meetings and preparation of
technical brochures for the use of the front-line field staff (AVZs); and (c) on-farm trials carried out with
the support of relevant subject matter specialists and AVZs.

In terms of outputs, 49 joint participatory diagnosis of farming systems were completed (out of 69
planned). This activity allowed identifying numerous problems that farmers regarded as high-priority issues
in their agricultural, livestock, and fisheries activities. Three different methods were used to resolve the
problems: tests on farmers' fields, on-station research, and competitive research grants. They helped
farmers to improve the productivity of various crops and animal produce, conserve the fertility of soils, and
protect crops and animals against diseases, parasites, and rodents. As the technologies developed during the
predecessor project were also available, the subject matter specialists were in a position to provide the
AVZs, and through them, producers altogether with 196 technologies. Regrettably, the regularity of the
interactions between research and agricultural extension has suffered during the two last project year,
partly because of continued problems with ADB funding, but also because of IFAD's, the main financier of
this subcomponent, decision to not extend the project period beyond the original four years. (ADB has
agreed recently that its funds can be used for the interaction between researchers, extension staff, and
farmers and for trials on farmer's fields, but this concession has yet to take effect.)

Reorientation of the project in 2002 did not substantially change the manner in which this subcomponent
was executed. However, the emphasis in practical fieldwork was placed on trials on farmers' fields instead
of research stations or demonstration plots. Also, because of the change in the approach, the AVZs now
advised the farmers in topics and problem areas that the farmers identified rather than in their own or
public-sector preferences.

Although organizing competitive research took much more time than projected at appraisal, at the end of
the project the quantitative target (20 research contracts signed, averaging about US$50,000 per contract)


                                                      - 6 -

had been reached. More than 300 farmers' problems were identified and prioritized at participatory
committees at different levels. Those that could be resolved by competitive arrangements were selected and
formulated into "research packages" prior to advertising bidding documents and awarding the contracts.
Because this initiative is so promising, the Government has fully accepted the concept and has undertaken
to continue the financing of current and upcoming activities from the budgetary funds of the Ministry of
Scientific Research.

Human resources component

Implementation of the human resources component is rated as satisfactory. The targets set at appraisal of
having competent staff in all posts were mostly achieved. At the end of the project, altogether 1,407 Zonal
Extension Agents (AVZs) were in post, 189 of them female. In addition, there were about 300 subject
matter specialists at the regional level and at the provincial-level there were 80 technical specialists. The
numbers are 10 percent smaller than projected at appraisal, but the main reason has been that especially the
specialists and technicians are greatly sought after by other sectors. This aspect of losing trained staff and
constantly training new staff is regretted by the project management, but it can also be seen as a gain for
the Cameroonian economy as a whole.

Under this component, the training subcomponent aimed at financing orientation-training of MINEPIA
staff and Government departments expected to participate in the program; workshops for agencies
associated with the project, such as NGOs and private-sector organizations; specialized training on
identification of agricultural problems especially for resource-poor farmers; and general training of all
extension and research staff on gender issues. Before midterm, the AVZs, including MINEPIA staff,
received training in 3,450 sessions (out of 4,400 planned) and the specialists in 95 workshops (out of 180
planned). After midterm, when the orientation of the extension component changed from a T&V approach
to a more targeted and integrated "micro projects approach," the training subcomponent was adapted to
the new requirements. All staff received training in the new diagnostic surveys and the "micro project"
approach and more emphasis was put on organizational and managerial aspects of the "micro projects"
rather than on technical aspects. An important element of human resource development has been that the
AVZs have transferred the acquired knowledge in this respect to more than 13,800 producer groups for
planning and implementation of micro projects. In addition to the training in agricultural topics, 25
management-level persons of the project have received training in human resources management.
Furthermore, a number of workshops have also been organized for private sector and NGO agencies
involved in project implementation.

These achievements are satisfactory, considering the reduction in funds available for the component,
change in the orientation of the project, and the improvements in the yields obtained (see Annex 1). In
addition, the specific emphasis on incorporating the gender issue in all training recorded substantial
improvement in getting women involved in extension groups and training them in selected trades. Another
special program, "Radio Rural," was used intensively to disseminate information of extension and rural
development; more than 2,000 hours of agriculture-sector programs were broadcast during the last two to
three years of the project.

Moreover, inclusion of HIV/AIDS education into extension work in years 1999-2002 added an important
social and economic dimension to the project. The agricultural extension agents were trained in preventive
measures that had proved effective against this disease in other countries. Through their visit programs to
villages and demonstration plots, they spread the messages about these HIV/AIDS countermeasures to
more than 10,000 villages, covering two-thirds of the rural families with the program. The HIV/AIDS
program of PNVRA was transferred to the specialized IDA-financed HIV/AIDS project that was approved


                                                     - 7 -

for Cameroon in 2002.

The Producer Organizations Component is rated as satisfactory for achieving its original objectives. At
mid-term, a pilot activity covering provision of small equipment and productive infrastructure grants for
producer organizations (POs) was introduced. This can be assessed as highly satisfactory in gaining the
experience and developing the procedures and manuals needed for a larger operation.

The original tasks were to support the efforts of the farmer-organization and private sector specialists
(SOASPs) to develop formal and informal contacts between producer groups and associations on the one
hand, and private sector suppliers of agricultural inputs and crop processing equipment, traders, industrial
purchasers of agricultural products on the other hand. The appraisal did not set any target number of
trained SOASPs, but in practice the project engaged and trained 56 SOASPs to carry out these duties. The
SOASPs helped conclude 474 contracts between farmer groups (against 100 anticipated at appraisal),
financing institutions, input suppliers, or produce marketing agencies for provision of credit, inputs, and
marketing services. Only three contracts for handing over agricultural extension to local NGOs were signed
due to lack of experience, procedures, and guidelines in such arrangements and the dearth of NGOs capable
of undertaking such assignments. However, at the end of the project the necessary procedures and manuals
were available and tested, thus facilitating expansion of this approach at the next available opportunity.

The new approach introduced in 2002 for promoting producer organizations through "micro projects"
created a lot of enthusiasm among the producers. One reason for this enthusiasm could have been that the
approach implied that there would be grant funds available to implement some of the priorities identified by
the farmers. The amount reserved under the project for small equipment and infrastructures to producer
organizations to help "kick-start" agricultural processing and transformation activities was US$1.8 million
equivalent, and it was estimated to cover 700 micro projects. Altogether 13,877 POs were recorded as
having prepared and are implementing their activity plans (most of them were non-registered farmer groups
formed earlier). An important achievement was that 1,605 of them joined the 79 new "Associations
Professionelles de Producteurs," most of which linked with produce-specific, vertical organizations, and "
filières."

A total of 1,852 micro projects (subproject) applications was approved, of which the project was able to
finance 1,277 for provision of equipment and small infrastructures. As a pilot initiative, this operation
provided highly satisfactory results. The project helped quickly to establish the necessary network for
making and processing applications, including Selection Committees composed of local stakeholders. It
trained a large number of producer organizations to take care of the necessary formalities and even
implement micro projects, or supervise their execution. All these substantially exceeded the targets set at
midterm. In order to maintain their momentum and avoid any gap in financing arrangements, the
Government should work out means and ways to help the producer organizations, which eagerly await
financing of a large number of micro projects ready for consideration, as well as other micro projects on
which the POs are preparing new requests.

The Village-Base Community Development Component is rated as highly satisfactory. This pilot
operation aimed at helping 70-100 villages to prepare comprehensive diagnostic plans to analyze their
development needs, prepare community-based development plans, provide support to implement at least
one half of the plans, and train a group of trainers in the methodology of community participation. The
pilot was completed already before the midterm and the outputs were impressive: the project helped educate
184 trainers, and they covered 320 villages that prepared diagnostic analyses and activity plans. The plans
implemented included improvements in getting potable water (40 percent), rehabilitation of schools and
their equipment (25 percent), rehabilitation or construction of sanitary infrastructures (10 percent), and


                                                     - 8 -

others (25 percent). As an important outcome of the pilot, the results were used as inputs for the completion
of the Government's Community Development Program financed by IDA, IFAD, and others.

Project Impact Evaluation and Studies Component is rated as marginally satisfactory. The
responsibility for this component was entrusted to the Department of Studies and Projects at the Ministry
of Agriculture, which was expected to involve the respective unit in the Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries,
and Animal Industries. In practice, most of the work seems to have been done by PNVRA and its
Monitoring Unit.

The key activities planned under the component were carried out, justifying the marginally satisfactory
rating given for the component. These activities included preparation of a baseline study, regular review of
internally generated (monitoring) information on field activities, midterm review, an institutional audit of
MINAGRI and MINEPIA, and end-of-the-project impact study/beneficiary assessment. However, in
comparison to the plans for this component presented in the appraisal report there were several
shortcomings, but some of these plans may have been excessive or at least overoptimistic. The studies not
done or done only partially included the following: (i) annual evaluation of project impacts; (ii) financial
evaluations of the expected benefits of adopting the new technologies and support to contracting market
studies and crop processing proposals by an economist/financial specialist to be recruited (he was never
recruited); (iii) independent evaluation of the research projects financed under the competitive research
grant program (because of the delays in executing this program, the results of the program are not yet
available - see above); and (iv) evaluation of subcontracting of extension services to NGOs. Furthermore,
because of the missing actual data of field trials and results during the intervening years, the assessment of
the impacts of the project operations was based on information provided by the beneficiaries rather than on
more scientific data.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Although the project was designed primarily to address problems caused by rural poverty, weak
agricultural productivity, and the need for capacity-building and institutional improvements that is not
easily measurable in economic terms, an economic rate of return was calculated at appraisal on the basis of
projected yield increases and adoption rates. The ERR thus obtained was 42 percent and the Net Present
Value US$27 million, calculated at 10 percent discount rate. Because no farm models were available for
the ICR mission, a simplified economic analysis was carried out at the end of the project, using the yield
increases and adoption rates of the main crops reported by producers. The result was an ERR of 41
percent, that is, substantially better than the minimum 12 percent required for a project to be rated as
successful.

The cost-effectiveness of the project is rated as satisfactory. Using the average outreach figures for the last
three project years and the average annual costs of the extension and research components (including
project administration and monitoring), the cost per family that was reached amounted to only US$17 per
annum (total cost of the extension and research components, US$17.6 million, divided by six years, divided
by average annual number of families, 450,000). On average, PO subprojects cost about US$1,420 each,
ranging from a few hundred dollars to US$5,000 (which was the maximum allowed under the rules).

4.4 Financial rate of return:

No overall financial rate of return was calculated at appraisal or for the ICR. However, PNVRA prepared
financial projections of several typical investments for subprojects at the end of the project. These
subprojects showed positive financial rates of return (FRR) ranging from 20 to 40 percent or positive net



                                                      - 9 -

present values (NVP) (see Annex 3). These current calculations and the improvements in crop yields
mentioned in Annex 1 indicate that project investments provide strongly positive FRR or NPV.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional development impact is assessed as substantial. PNVRA coordination unit and its branches in
the provinces and regions already existed at the start of the project, and they carried out the field
implementation tasks of the project satisfactorily. The institutional improvements included recruitment of
environmental specialists, continuous training of the staff, and a major reorientation of the nature of work
at midterm, when the agricultural extension agents had to expand their sphere of activities and become
more general development facilitators in the rural milieu (see Section 4.2). Developing collaborative
arrangements between MINAGRI, MINEPIA (including in unified extension activities), the Ministry of
Scientific Research, and IRAD, modifying the delivery of extension services in several respects to improve
project results and impact, and carrying out the process in a participatory manner were remarkable
achievements. However, the Ministry of Livestock still sees a need for special approach in their field,
especially for fisheries and migratory pastoralists. Other important benefits of the project to institutions can
be seen in the regions and zones, where subproject selection committees, that is, stakeholder committees to
review and choose PO investments, are now a permanent feature, ensuring continuity of action both for
village-level development efforts and for broader planning, understanding, and coordination at the district
level. Capacity building at the local level through the 13,870 POs was substantial. At the national level, the
"technical audit"-- although completed much later than projected--has already contributed to some
reorganization in MINAGRI and is being used in a similar exercise in MINEPIA. In general, the
institutional arrangements developed under the project are so well recognized that various ongoing projects,
financed by the Bank (PNDP) and other donors (AfDB) and relating to project activities, use the same
arrangements.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Two principal factors outside the control of the Government impeded attainment of potentially optimal
benefits: (a) IFAD's decision not to extend the project period beyond the initially planned closing date (the
reasons given included that there had been repayment arrears due to long delays in processing the files, or
that IFAD wanted to reserve the funds for other programs); and (b) there were not enough competent local
NGOs or other private sector organizations that could have taken over from the public sector some of the
extension and other functions that had been made available.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The project benefited, especially after reorientation in 2002, from the Government's sector strategy and
policies on rural development and especially its policies on decentralization and the involvement of local
communities and producer groups in development efforts. Also, the Government was ready to accept the
recommendations made by IDA supervision missions for corrective measures when things did not go as
planned.

The factors that impeded implementation of the project or achievement of better results included the
following:

    (a) During the two last project years, the Government's financial contribution was inadequate to meet
    the needs of the project, thus making it very difficult to carry out some activities that were intended to


                                                     - 10 -

    be financed by counterpart funds. Also, frequent delays in releasing funds, partly because of initially
    complicated disbursement procedures, caused delays in fieldwork.
    (b) Especially in the early years, the procurement activities did not always conform with the World
    Bank rules and the Procurement Commission external to the project treated the project's procurement
    documents slowly and inconsistently, affecting especially the mobility of the project staff.
    (c) Instability of the project staff (especially the highly trained specialist) due to non-competitiveness of
    the civil service and lack of career opportunities in the public sector.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

In general, PNVRA implemented the project well, but there were a few factors controllable by the project
that adversely affected its outputs and outcomes:

    (a) During the first project years, the Monitoring Unit had inadequate manpower, systems, and
    capabilities to process the data collected; the evaluation activity, thoroughly discussed in the appraisal
    report, apparently did not receive enough attention.
    (b) Failure to recruit an economist/financial analyst for the project resulted in inability to measure the
    benefits that different kinds of project activities would bring to the rural population and in lack of
    adequate financial and economic analyses for the Government's project completion report.
    (c) The competitive research program--while finally successful--took too long to start to be able to
    fully develop new technologies that could be used by producers.
    (d) While it is acknowledged that there are not very many non-public agencies that can take over
    extension and other advisory services aimed at helping producer organizations, the project could have
    been more proactive in encouraging them to improve their competency (for instance, by providing
    training) and helping their involvement by developing financial arrangements that would have
    facilitated their participation, as they usually are incapable to pre-finance the operational and
    investment costs of new assignments.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal, the project costs were estimated at US$46.1 million. Of this amount, IDA credit represented
US$15.1 million, IFAD loan US$10.5 million, African Development Fund credit 10.3 million, and the
Government financing US$10.5 million equivalent. The IDA credit and Government contribution were
almost entirely disbursed (97.5 and 90.3 percent respectively), while the IFAD loan had the lowest
disbursement rate at 42 percent because its cancellation of the purchase of motorcycles and decision to not
extend the project closing date. The variation in exchange rates had no significant effect on overall
disbursements or project implementation. The dollar in relation to FCFA and other currencies had
appreciated during the middle part of the project period, thus providing more local funds for the project
needs, but then declined in relation to other currencies, allowing nearly all originally projected IDA credit to
be disbursed.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Overall sustainability of the reoriented project is rated as likely, although with some reservations. Already
during the project period, the Government paid salaries of the 2,400 staff, but its inability during the past
two years to pay no more than 65 percent of the operating costs raises concerns (the budgets were
sufficient, but releases of funds were late and below the budgeted figures). However, the basic premises for


                                                       - 11 -

rural development are satisfactory. The Government is systematically following the market-oriented
policies put in place nearly a decade ago. These policies have removed most of the disincentives to
increasing agricultural production, and have emphasized the need for a more comprehensive approach and
the private-sector involvement in development of the rural sector. The new "microprojects approach" is
promising--if implemented in a phased manner--because it does not require much more Government funds
to be operational and the producers have clearly demonstrated an interest and capability in implementing
this approach through their own efforts. The Government has already undertaken to continue funding
microprojects by using HPIC funds.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Transition arrangements to regular operations do not present any problem. The extension management
system and the adaptive research program are already fully integrated in the Government's system of
supporting agricultural development. As for the producer organizations component and the competitive
research program, the manuals, procedures, practices, eligibility criteria, and monitoring systems, including
monitoring indicators (see Annex 1), which were developed during the project period, provide an excellent
basis for expanding these activities to new areas and population groups. The Ministries of Agriculture and
Livestock, and even some local NGOs, are now very familiar with the program, especially the financial and
procedural requirements that it places on them in the field.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in project identification and supporting project preparation is rated as
satisfactory. During the pre-appraisal phase, extensive workshops and consultations were held with all the
potential stakeholders. The project designers took into consideration the Government's extension strategy
existing during the second half of 1990s, as well as the Bank's strategy to support Cameroon's
development efforts. The project design was based on experiences gained during the predecessor project.
However, the first quality assessment review rated the project design unsatisfactory on numerous grounds.
The final appraisal team contained an extensive skill mix, including a sector manager and senior
agricultural adviser, and it responded to the comments made by the QAG and took into account -- although
in a limited .....--the new paradigm of rural development that included linking of several activities and
involvement of the private sector.

The final appraisal team carried out its work in accordance with the policies prevalent in the Bank in the
1990s, which included a requirement for "simple" projects with a minimum number of components and
great confidence in the extension management system and its linking with agricultural research (in this
project, the "simplicity" was attained by providing 88 percent of funds for two components). Still faithful to
the earlier policies, the provision of these services was entrusted to the public sector, but an opening for the
private sector and producer organizations to enter the rural development efforts was facilitated through
smaller, pilot-type operations. The appraisal team identified some risks for the project that turned out to be
real, such as possible lack of counterpart funds or delay in their release, a potentially inadequate
disbursement mechanism for ADB funds, and the risk that qualified technical personnel will leave the
service due to non-competitive benefits. Other risks identified at appraisal proved to be possible to mitigate
with the measures proposed at appraisal.




                                                      - 12 -

7.2 Supervision:

Bank supervision of PNVRA was satisfactory. The Bank carried out 12 supervision missions, more
frequently in the beginning and spreading the mission more time-wise at the end (at which time more video
conferences were used to complement field supervision to some extent). The reports of the supervision
missions reflected the missions' thorough work, and the aide-mémoires provided detailed advice to correct
key shortcomings. However, given that the new paradigm of rural development was well known,
supervision missions should have noticed the needs for reorientation for the project earlier than at the
midterm. The midterm report in 2002, while not articulating well the new strategies and approaches,
reflected great participation by all partners, and called for re-adjustments in the project to ensure its
success. However, when proposing innovations, the Bank staff apparently failed to take into account the
time and effort needed to prepare for their implementation (guidelines, manuals, testing, and training), thus
proposing overly tight implementation schedules.

The reorientation of the project and two amendments in the Credit Agreement illustrate the Bank's
flexibility in responding to the Government's requests as needed. However, the Government, especially the
Ministries of Finance and Scientific Research, complained to the ICR follow-up mission that early on
during the project cycle the responses from the Bank took too much time when no-objections were needed
for new procedures and manuals.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. Although the project was prepared as a follow-on
intervention for the previous extension project and was appraised according to the approaches prevailing in
the rural development field in the 1990s, it benefited from two QAG reviews and tried to include
innovations that allowed new approaches to be experimented. It met the policy objectives of both the
Government and the Bank. At the midterm, the Bank suggested or approved the modifications necessary,
ensuring that the emerging rural development models could be incorporated into the project development
objectives.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Government's performance in project preparation is rated as satisfactory. As the project was the
second phase of the agricultural extension projects in Cameroon, the Government used the project
management unit to collaborate with the World Bank specialists in the preparation of a follow-on project
that responded to acknowledged producer needs better than the predecessor project, PNVA, and included in
the project private sector involvement. Although these innovations were too limited, they opened an easy
avenue for the midterm reorientation of the project operations. The Government also undertook to engage
the main international financing agencies, IDA, IFAD, and ADB to provide support under the same
umbrella, thus improving the chances of coordination of support efforts in the agricultural sector (the
Government still considers the coordination of externally-financed programs too limited - see Annex 8).

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory in view of the project outcome and



                                                   - 13 -

outputs, although there were some shortcomings. It took six months for the Government to make the project
effective, but the Government later acted in a timely way in requesting amendments in Credit Agreements
when needed, especially in regard to reorientation of the project, thus helping the project achieve its
development objectives. The Government paid for nearly the full contingency of agreed-upon field and
management staff for the project. The main problems during project implementation were delays in getting
the research component implemented as intended, and late releases of, or failure to provide, adequate
counterpart funds for operations. Nevertheless, the Government deserved special credit for having
introduced an extensive participatory mechanism for policy and operational planning in the sector and
PNVRA activities, and in the delivery of extension services, including involvement of selected NGOs,
professional associations, and external financiers.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

PNVRA carried out the project coordination, administration and monitoring functions satisfactorily,
deserving credit for having successfully implemented most project components, as well as for organizing
the accounting, audits, and other administration activities satisfactorily. PNVRA had initial problems with
monitoring project activities, but improved well toward the end of the project, being able to provide data for
the final impact study and the Government's project completion report (see Annex 8). In addition, the
Government participated actively in the reorientation exercise at midterm and took the necessary actions to
make the reoriented project operational. However, the project failed to carry out several evaluation
operations scheduled between the baseline study and the final impact study, the latter of which then became
difficult to prepare fully because of lack of field data from the intervening years (blame for a part of the
evaluation shortcomings belongs to the Department of Studies and Projects at MINAGRI).

This report does not deal with the ADB-financed research component, but the subcomponent "Competitive
Research Grants," although finally attaining the objectives, was implemented only after the midterm
review. The collaborative component "Research and Extension Linkages" was implemented satisfactorily,
except for financing of motorcycles by IFAD (see Section 4.2).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

In view of the level of objectives reached and the substantial impact estimated (to be confirmed after a
couple of years, because the PO infrastructures have been used in most cases for less than a year), the
overall performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The main lessons that have emerged from the implementation of PNVRA are as follows:

    (a) Staff mobility and social equity. Substantial increases in yields and livestock productivity can be
    achieved with an effective extension management system if linked with adaptive agricultural research
    and modified to the conditions in a particular country. However, whatever system to support producers
    is used, adequate mobility for the extension and research staff is a precondition for obtaining results
    that are broadly based on the rural population. Without adequate mobility for the staff, there will not
    be social equity among the beneficiaries, because the staff efforts will remain within a few kilometers
    from their posting places, and thus the poverty goal will not be fully attained.

    (b) Importance of motivation of farmer groups and provision of key services. Adding a provision of
    funds for productive equipment and infrastructures can improve the motivation to produce more, make



                                                    - 14 -

produce more marketable, and strengthen the spirit of collaboration and willingness of forming
associations. Adding a subcomponent for such investments at midterm was an important improvement
in the project, but it may not have been enough. Successful rural development is a complex task that
requires support to "upstream and downstream activities" linked to agricultural production. To
overcome this constraint, the supervision missions were jointly organized with all donors concerned for
proper coordination of project implementation. The Cameroon PNVRA provided facilities for piloting
some of these activities, but in a too limited scale to be of real support to more than 5 percent of
producers. In order to gain more benefit from its producer organizations component, more activities
need to be supported (such as marketing, rural finance, feeder roads, and education and other capacity
building at the local level). They should be done within the framework of the existing Rural
Development Strategy.

(c) Limited resources and gradual approach to development. Reorientation of the farmer support
from a mass-extension system, such as the T&V system, to a more targeted and comprehensive
approach of advisory assistance to registered producer groups initially reduces the number of
benefiting families, because the producer groups, with their multitude of needs, require more of the
support agent's time. It also may seem contradictory to the Government's goal and obligation to look
after all the rural population. However, the available funds are not sufficient to cover all families at one
go, and the new approach appears to offer a way of making people and their organizations take over
rural development efforts in phases (the groups assisted first will "graduate" to develop their members'
economies without the Government's assistance, at which time the available funds can be transferred to
the second set of producer groups, etc.).

(d) Capacity building for NGOs and private sector operators. Using NGOs and private sector
operators as implementation agencies for special types of components, such as agricultural extension,
appears promising in theory, but in practice NGOs or consulting groups capable of carrying out
extension work are few, and they seldom have the same skills as the civil servants who have received
systematic training for years. When progressively involving NGOs in such tasks, the project planners
need to reserve sufficient funds for capacity building in these organizations before they take over tasks
from the public sector. Also, a financing system that allows prepayment for services is necessary,
because NGOs do not usually have funds to start new activities or enter new areas.

(e) Balancing expectations and funds available. Using producer organizations as a basis for village
investments gives economic incentives to the village populations, but also benefits beyond those that
are strictly economic: the approach provides a forum to fight against HIV/AIDS, promotes the position
of women, and improves understanding by villagers of the importance of their environment and
measures that could be used to maintain or improve it. However, if there is an imbalance between the
expectations and funds available (as in Cameroon where only 10 percent of the farmer groups
registered and having prepared plans for their "micro projects" get the start-up capital to implement
their plans), a risk of frustration is likely. Project or program promoters should make sure that
unwarranted expectations will not be raised at the planning and implementation phases.

(f) Understanding the preparatory needs for implementing innovations. Organizing competitive
research, NGO and private sector procedures and contracts, and starting the PO subcomponent in
remote provinces in Cameroon took much more time than projected at appraisal or midterm, indicating
either procedural delays or over-optimism among the project designers. In the first instance, the
procedures and manuals had to be created because there were none available, and their approval took
substantial time. Project planners must be realistic about the implementation timetables and provide
adequate time and resources for all necessary preparatory work.


                                                - 15 -

    (g) Government coordination of donor assistance in the sector. At the time of appraisal it was hoped
    that by getting the key development agencies in the agricultural sector (IDA, IFAD, AfDB) to
    cofinance implementation of a major project, it would encourage the donors to follow the Government's
    national strategy in the sector. As for the cofinanciers of the project, the aim concerning a unified
    approach to extension largely materialized due to having a single coordination unit for the activity.
    However, because the Government did not have a special set-up to coordinate the donors more broadly,
    creation of a multitude of projects in the rural sector continued, limiting the Government's intentions to
    implement an effective rural development strategy (see the Government's ICR in Annex 8, point 7.2).

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The borrower's project completion report is in Annex 8. In summary, the borrower was satisfied with the
overall outcome and outputs of the project. The borrower's report noted that the project was in full
compliance with the prevailing policies of Cameroon and the priorities of the agricultural sector. The report
rated the achievement of component objectives, sustainability, institutional development impact, Bank
performance, and borrower performance as satisfactory.

According to the borrower's report, the project contributed to reduction of poverty and improvement of
food security in the countryside through improved agricultural productivity, increased agricultural
production, reduced production costs, and the resulting incremental income to agricultural producers. The
project was also instrumental in taking into account the concerns of disadvantaged groups, especially
women, and preservation of the social and physical environment. Furthermore, the project promoted private
sector participation in agricultural development through contract farming and initiated competition in
carrying out agricultural research. Adequate sustainability of most project operations is ensured through
the budgetary processes by the involved ministries and the Government's continued efforts to involve the
private sector in the sector's development. On the side of institutional development, the report acknowledges
the improved programming and management of operations, as well as efficient use of human and financial
resources under the project. It also recognizes the successfull implementation of the Village-Base
Community Development pilot operation the results of which were used as inputs for the completion of the
on-going Government's Community Development Program co-financed by IDA, IFAD, and others. The
weak producers' capacity to finance investments needed at the local level was partially rectified by
providing grants to producer groups for small infrastructures and equipment during the latter part of the
project. An activity added into the project after its start, viz., HIV/AIDS prevention and care, allowed
development of early methodologies for fighting this pandemic. These methodologies were transferred to the
HIV/AIDS-specific projects established later in Cameroon.

On a more critical note, the Government's report observed that the efforts to involve NGOs and vertical
producer associations in agricultural extension did not produce the expected results for several reasons,
most notably because of the limited human and financial resources of these agencies and underestimation
by project planners of the additional costs related to such services. In regard to development partners, the
report observed that although the key partners and ministries were closely involved in the project
implementation, full harmonization of interventions in the sector is still to be reached. To that end, the
Government is willing to implement the recommendations of the independent technical audit of the
concerned line ministries (completed in July 2002). Also, the report noted the inadequate mobility of
extension staff in the fisheries subsector, and long external delays in processing the disbursement
documents for the release of IFAD funds.



                                                     - 16 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

Cofinanciers' comments have been sought, but no response had been received at the time of printing the
ICR.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

The view of the representatives of ''Cooperation Française", the main bilateral agency active in Cameroon,
are incorporated in this report. They particularly emphasized that all future rural development efforts
should be incorporated into and coordinated within the framework of the Rural Development Strategy.


10. Additional Information

n.a.




                                                   - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators:

            Indicator                   Projected in SAR or at                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       mid-term for the project

Development Objectives:

Improvement of the agricultural      Average crop yield increases of
productivity and incomes of the      10% annually among the
male and female farmers through      producers adopting the
increases in yields and              extension messages (thèmes)
improvement in transformation        promoted.
of agricultural produce.
                                     Baseline:                              (Increase percentages are per year)
                                     - Maize: 1.3 t/ha                      Maize: 2.9 t/ha (increase 17.5%) 1/
                                     - Cassava: 3 t/ha                      Cassava: 13 t/ha (23.2%)
                                      - Potatoes: 1.7 t/ha                  Potatoes: 6.3 t/ha (30.0%)
                                     - Plantains: 4 t/ha                    Plantains: 13 t/ha (21.3%)
                                      - Onions: 9.5 t/ha                    Onions: 18.6 t/ha (25.9%) 2/
                                     - Groundnut: 0.8 t/ha                  Groundnut: 0.9-2.4 t/ha (5%-12%) 3/
                                     - Macabo: 1.5 t/ha                     Macabo: 4.2-9.1 t/ha (10%-45%) 4/
                                      - Niébé: 0.6 t/ha                     Niébé: 0.8 t/ha (7%) 5/
                                      - Tomato: 7.8-10.7 t/ha               Tomato: 10-16.0 t/ha (7%-10%) 6/

                                     Livestock and fisheries
                                     indicators:
                                     - Milk: 1.5 liters/d/head
                                      - Cattle: 10 heads/cattle owner       Milk: 2.4 liters/d/head (10.1%)
                                      - Pigs: 8 pigs/producer               Cattle: 17 heads/cattle owner (9.1%)
                                      - Poultry:10 birds/breeder            Pigs: 10 heads/pig producer (5.0%)
                                      - Fishponds: 0.7 kg/m2                Poultry: 14 birds/breeder (7.0%)
                                     After midterm: to help resolve         Fishponds: 0.8 kg/m2 (3.0%)
                                     farmers' production and                After midterm: 1,250 subprojects
                                     transformation problems, 700           satisfactorily implemented, of which
                                     subprojects satisfactorily             520 by women.
                                     implemented before the end of
                                     the project and 200 of them for
                                     women.

Competitive research and             Competitive research and
involvement of the private sector    private sector and farmer              Implemented, farmer organizations
and farmer organizations.            organizations involvement              involvement exceeded after
                                     facilitated.                           re-orientation at midterm (see outputs
                                                                            below).

1/ Based on the Beneficiary Assessment/Impact Study of June 2004.
2/ North. 3/ Depending on th agricultural zone. 4/ Littoral and Central. 5/ Extreme North. 6/ West; South.




                                                       - 18 -

Output Indicators:

            Indicator                  Projected in SAR or at                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      mid-term for the project
1. Extension
Increase in farm families in      Until midterm: Number of             The 58,699 contact groups created
contact with extension workers.   contact groups to increase to 30%    represented at least 50% of farm
                                  of farm families and 50% of          families; after midterm 13,277 were
                                  them to be women groups.             formed (and mainly registered) as
                                  After midterm:                       microprojects, representing about
                                  Number of producer groups            488,000 families (39% of the farm
                                  benefitting from "microprojects.     families), of them 46% women. With
                                                                       indirect means (including mass media),
                                                                       an estimated 80% of the farming
                                                                       population has been enreached.

Increase in adoption rates of new Increase of adoption rates by        The adoption rates reached during the
technologies.                     80% (over the 35% adoption           second half of the project commonly
                                  rates in contact groups at the       exceed the target 62%. Out of 36 new
                                  beginning of the project, that is,   technologies reviewed in the Impact
                                  62% overall).                        Study, the adoption rates were over the
                                                                       target in 28 (Impact Study, p 53).

Seed multiplication by farmers    No target set                        879 farmers have been trained for
                                                                       multiplication of seeds and animal
                                                                       materials in 16 regions
2.Agricultural research
System of competitive research    A system of research grants to be    A competitive research grant program
grants (other research is not     operational.                         is operational; altogether 20 grants
subject of this report).          Target for midterm: 10 research      have been selected, but only 14
                                  grants approved.                     financed due to lack of funds.
                                  Target for the end of the
                                  program: a total 20 research
                                  grants approved.

3. Training and human resource
management
Number of well-trained            The number of agricultural field     1,407 Zonal Extension Agents (AVZs)
agricultural extension staff in   extension staff in post to be 1690,  are in post, 189 of them female; in
post.                             200 of them female.                  addition there are 300 subject matter
                                  Training to be provided:             specialists at the regional level and 80
                                  Before midterm, AVZ to get           provincial-level technicians.
                                  fortnightly training.                Before mid-term the AVZs received
                                                                       training in 3,450 bi-weekly sessions
                                                                       (out of 4,400 planned) and the
                                                                       specialists in 95 monthly workshops
                                                                       (out of 180 planned).

                                  After midterm, all extension staff   After midterm all staff received
                                  to be trained in diagnostic          training in the new "microproject"
                                  "microproject" promotion and         approach, but after that the training
                                  management.                          has been organized in provinces
                                                                       according to the needs identified




                                                     - 19 -

                                                                      through the annual diagnostic planning
                                                                      for "microprojects" in organizational,
                                                                      managerial, and agri-technical topics.
                                                                      In addition: 25 management-level
                                                                      persons of PNVRA have received
                                                                      training in H.R. management.
4. Support to farmer
organizations and promotion of
linkages with the private sector
SOAPS and private-sector          SOAPS in place and provided         56 SOAPS formed and operational.
contracts (public-private sector  with the necessary operating
partnership).                     funds.

                                  Contracts made for market           Not implemented.
                                  studies and other economic
                                  studies (target number not set).

                                  Contracts with NGOs on agr.         Three contracts for agr. extension
                                  extension of farmers.               made, covering 31 zones (during the
                                                                      last year).

                                  100 contracts agreed upon with      In addition: 474 production contracts
                                  private operators (input            have been made between farmer
                                  suppliers, micro-finance            groups, micro-finance institutions, and
                                  institutions, agrcoindustries.      input suppliers or produce marketeers;
                                                                      79 professional associations and 12
                                                                      produce-specific federations to support
                                                                      local farmer groups have been
                                                                      established, involving 23,123 farmers
                                                                      have been established.

After midterm: Increase of output Provision of equipment and small    The 1,277 subprojects for provision of
from processing and               infrastructures to producer         equipment and small infrastructures to
transformation of agricultural    organizations to help "kick-start"  producer groups. (1852 subproject
products                          the produce processing and          applications approved, but 575 not
                                  transformation activities through   implemented due to lack of funds.)
                                  700 subproject grants

5. Community development pilot    Support to 70-100 villages for      320 villages covered under the
Community development plans       comprehensive diagnostic plans      component, each having a
                                  about their development needs       comprehensive development plan.
                                  At least one half of the key        Information not collected.
                                  activities implemented in pilot
                                  villages.

6. Impact evaluation and studies  Beneficiary assessment of project   Carried out at the end of the project
                                  impacts by consultants.             (also containing factual information
                                                                      and data on project implementation).

                                  Repetition of the base-line study   Not implemented, but covered in the
                                  (of outputs in the field) during    beneficiary assessment.
                                  the second and fourth project
                                  years.




                                                     - 20 -

                                  Thorough study of the actual        Not implemented.
                                  adoption/rejection rates of the
                                  promoted extension messages
                                  message.

                                  Study on demand and supply of       The study was completed in February
                                  private-sector extension agents     2003 and subsequently approved by the
                                  Institutional audit of MINAGRI      Government. No specific actions have
                                  and MINEPI to be carried out        incurred as a result of the study.
                                  early during the project period.

Financial
Percentage of the funding of      At midterm: 50%                     At midterm: 60%
recurrent expenditure to be met   After midterm, target for the end   In 2003: 65%
by local funds                    of the project: 100%
Replacement of external financial
personnel                         Training of project staff to take   Not implemented.
                                  over the financial tasks carried
                                  out by external financial
                                  controllers.

HIV/AIDS (subactivity             Integrate HIV/AIDS prevention       All supervising and field staff of
introduced after project          modules into the regular visit      PNVRA were trained in the basic
appraisal)                        programs of the AVZ.                HIV/AIDS knowledge and AVZs
                                                                      passed on the prevention messages to
                                                                      800,000 contact group members during
                                                                      their bi-weekly meetings with them
                                                                      until year 2000 when a special project
                                                                      for the fight against HIV/AIDS was
                                                                      approved.




                                                      - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent) 1/

      Project Cost by Component 1/                     Appraisal           Estimate after      Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                       Estimate,              midterm             Estimate,       after-midterm
                                                          Total                 Total                                 Estimate
                                                      US$ million           US$ million          US$ million
Agricultural Extension                                    26.1                  25.0                19.2               76.8%
Research    1/
     - Research/extension linkages                         3.3                   2.3                 2.3                100%
     - Competitive research grants                         1.0                   0.6                 0.2               33.3%
Training and H.R. management                               3.9                   3.4                 3.8               111.8%
Farmer organizations support and private
sector linkages
     - Original component                                  0.5                   0.3                 0.3                100%
     - Subprojects  2/                                      -                    2.0                 1.8               90.0%
Village-based participatory com. devt.                     0.4                   0.4                 0.2               50.0%
Monitoring and evaluation                                  0.6                   0.6                 0.5               83.3%

Total Project Costs                                       35.8                  35.8                28.3          79.1% (98%)  3/
1/ Without the component of on-station research financed by the African Development Fund, not supervised by IDA.
2/ Subcomponent added at midterm.
3/ The percentage in brackets is for the disbursement of IDA funds alone.



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

  Expenditure Category                            Procurement       Method
                                       ICB             NCB               Other             N.B.F.        Total Cost
1.       Civil Works                                     0.9                                                   0.9
                                                        (0.7)                                                 (0.7)
2.       Goods
     Total goods 1/                     6.8              0.5               0.6                                 8.0
                                       (1.8)            (0.4)             (0.4)                               (2.7)
                                      ((3.3))                                                                ((3.3))
3.   Training                                                               3.8                                3.8
                                                                          (3.8)                               (3.8)
4.   Research contracts                                                     4.3                               4.3
                                                                          (1.0)                              (1.0)
                                                                         ((3.3))                            ((3.3))
5.   Operating Costs                                                      16.3                                16.3
                                                                          (5.4)                               (5.4)
                                                                         ((3.3))                             ((3.3))
6.   Studies, consultants,                                                 2.5                                2.5
and audit                                                                 (2.3)                              (2.3)
TOTAL                                   6.8              1.5              27.5                                35.8
                                       (1.8)            (0.5)            (12.8)                              (15.1)
                                      ((3.3))          ((0.7))           ((6.6))                            ((10.6))
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by an IDA credit, in double parentheses IFAD financing . All costs
include contingencies. The ADF financing of the on-station research is not included.




                                                             - 22 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
  Expenditure Category                           Procurement        Method
                                    ICB               NCB                  Other 1/                Total Cost
1. Civil Works                                         0.2                                              0.2

2. Goods
     Vehicles                       0.5                0.2                     0.0                      0.7
     Motorcycles                    0.6                0.3                     0.0                      0.9
     Equipment                                                                 0.4                      0.4
3. Training
                                                                               3.8                      3.8
4. Research contracts
                                                                               0.9                      0.9
5. Operating Costs
                                                                              17.7                     17.7
6. Studies, consultants,
and audit                                                                      1.9                      1.9
7. Subprojects for POs 1/
                                                                               1.8                      1.8

TOTAL                               1.1                0.7                    26.5                     28.3
Note: All costs include contingencies. The figures do not fully reconcile with the SAR table because of the
exchange rate differences during the project period and apparent inclusion of some AfDB procurement in the
figures.
1/ Introduced at midterm.

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                     Appr     Estim     Act.     Latest   Estim         %        of          Appr 1/

                         IDA     Govt        IFAD       IDA      Govt.    IFAD      IDA         Govt       IFAD

Agricultural Extension   9.4      9.9        6.9        8.1       8.7     2.4       86.2%       87.9%      35.3%

Research
- Research/extension
linkages                                     3.3                            2.1                             64.8%
- Competitive research
grants                   1.0                             0.2                         20.0%

Training and H.R.        3.5      0.1         0.3        3.8                         108.6%
management

Farmer organizations
support and private
sector linkages
- Original component      0.4      0.01                  0.3                         75.0%
- Subprojects                                            1.8                         ND

Village-based partici-
patory community          0.28     0.01       0.03       0.2       0.1               71.4%       1000%
development

Monitoring and            0.5      0.08                  0.34      0.03              68.0%       37.5%
evaluation

Total                     15.1     10.1       10.5       14.7      8.8      4.5      97.4%       87.4%      43.2%



                                                      - 23 -

1/ The minor differences in percentage computations are caused by rounding the decimals for the table.




                                                     - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                          Annex 3: Economic and Financial Costs and Benefits

Economic Rate of Return (ERR)

Although the project was designed primarily to address problems caused by rural poverty, weak
agricultural productivity, and the need for capacity-building and institutional improvements--which are not
easily measurable in economic terms--an economic rate of return was calculated at appraisal on the basis of
projected increases in yields and rates of adoption. The ERR thus obtained was 41 percent and the Net
Present Value US$27 million, calculated at 10 percent discount rate.

At the end of the project, PNVRA prepared a simplified economic analysis, using nine typical farm models
prepared for the most commonly grown crops in different ecological zones (maize, yam, onions, potatoes,
groundnuts, plantains, macabo, cassava, and tomatoes) and the yield increases and adoption rates reported
by producers in the Impact Assessment. The result was an ERR of 48 percent. The Net Present Value was
estimated at FCFA 704 billion (US$12 million), calculated by using 10 percent discount rate. However, the
above calculations assumed that there would be a follow-on project, under which the benefits would
continue to grow at the same pace as during PNVRA. If the calculations are made only for PNVRA and the
benefits are assumed to continue at the level attained in 2004, the ERR would be 41 percent.

Sensitivity analysis by varying key variables is presented in the following table.

  Test                     Change of Variable                       ERR (%) w/o follow-on project
Base case                                                                         41%
Test 2                     10% increase of costs                                  34%
Test 3                     10% decrease in production                             33%
Test 4                     5% increase in production                              45%


Financial Rate of Return:

No overall financial rate of return (FRR) was calculated at appraisal. However, PNVRA calculated an
FRR at the end of the project, using the same assumptions as in the economic rate of return calculations
(see below), but including appropriate costs, such as taxes, duties, and full labor costs. The overall FRR
thus obtained was 24 percent. In addition, PNVRA prepared financial projections of several typical farm
models at the end of the project. These models showed positive financial rates of return ranging from 6 to
118 percent or positive net present values (NVP), as shown in the following table. The calculations,
supported by the improvements in crop yields mentioned in Annex 1, indicate that farmers' investments are
beneficial to the them, and farmer and woman groups.




                                                    - 25 -

           Table 2. Financial calculations for the main productive investments under the project (amounts in
           BIF)


 Model                            Incremental Investment              Net Present Value                 FRR (%)
                                         ­ First year                     (FCFA M)
                                         (FCFA M)
 Tomato                                       3.1                            45.8                        n.a. (1)
 Maize                                        3.2                            71.0                        n.a. (2)
 Cassava                                     11/6                            -14.5                       Neg.
 Macabo                                       0.2                            128.9                        25.0
 Plantain                                    20.8                            30.7                         16.0
 Groundnut                                    5.4                            25.8                         35.0
 Potatoes                                    21.6                             -3.2                        9.0
 Onions                                       2.2                            92.1                        118.0
 Yam                                          5.6                             -4.1                         6.0
Hypotheses and method used in estimating production and revenues
1.      Computed at 10% discount rate
2.      If the net income is positive already during the first year, no internal rate of return can be calculated.

In the calculations, the cost and benefits were estimated for a period of 15 years, starting from year 1999
for investment costs and year 2000 for benefits. The costs were taken as per the disbursement statistics.
The investment costs included various civil works, improvements, and renovations, transport equipment
(vehicles, motorcycles); information technology equipment and materials; equipment and furniture for
offices; as well as grants for PO equipment and processing subprojects. The various equipment were
expected to be renewed every five years, and PO investments to grow by 40 percent per year. The operating
costs included office materials and furniture, operating costs of the transport, and external services. Taxes
and custom duties were expected to grow from the current level (8% to 18%) by 10 percent annually. The
total amount for staff salaries was expected to grow by 1 percent per year, reflecting the historical increase
in PNVRA salary costs in years 1999 to 2003.

The calculation of the economic and financial rates of return was carried out in three steps, the first step
was to derive a farm model for the main crops chosen in each agro-ecological zone and to determine the
incremental costs and revenues. The second step was to aggregate the incremental costs and revenues thus
derived at the national level. The third step was the integration of investment and recurrent costs. The
following information and data for the computations were derived from the data base prepared during the
study of the evaluation of the performance and the impact of the NAERP done on September 2004:

   l During the period 1999 to 2002, 67 percent of Cameroonian farmers benefited from the project.
   l From 2002 onward, almost 34 percent of farm families have benefited and will benefit through the
        farmer organizations support component.
   l The average rate of adoption of the new technologies is 49 percent.
   l The productivity of the main crops and their average annual rate of increase.
   l The total number of farmers involved in each main crops and among them the proportion of those
        under assistance from NAERP was obtained as the combination of the latest number of farmers
        involved in production of specific crops and the adoption rate for farmers having applied the
        teaching of the project.

A study realized in 2002 and published in 2003 by the National Institute for Statistics on "food price
formation" gave the cost structure of producing one unit of each mean crop and both the farm-gate and



                                                         - 26 -

local market prices.

Basic assumptions

Without PNVRA: there will be no significant change in crop productivity over the years. It was assumed
that the revenues would grow at a rate of 5 percent as a result of external chocks.

With PNVRA: It was assumed that the adoption of new technologies may lead to an increase of production
costs by 20 percent as a result of the increase in labour and improved input use. The production increase at
this rate was derived for each crop from the survey mentioned above.

It was assumed that inflation will affect most prices to the same extent so that prices retain their same
general relations, thus the approach taken was to work in constant prices, farm-gate, and local market
prices are used in the analysis.

The adjustments made for the economic analysis mainly reflect the removal of taxes and subsidies and
other economic distortions. While the project will increase on and off-farm employment in the rural areas,
unemployment and under-employment will not be eliminated. Therefore, a conversion factor of 0.50 was
used in the calculations to reflect the opportunity cost of unskilled labor. The policy reforms aiming at
opening of the economy that started in the 1990s, together with the open market determination of the
exchange rate, reflect fairly well its real value and lead to the conclusion that domestic prices tend to
correspond to border economic values. Prices and exchange rates are in constant (September 2003) terms
over the 15-year period of the analysis. The discount rate used was 10 percent.

Benefits not covered by the approach used

There are other tangible benefits due to the projects, but they were not taken into account in these
calculations. They include:

   l Benefits obtained by indirect beneficiaries (those not involved directly with the farmer groups but
         still benefiting, for instance through radio programs.
   l Improvement in the quality of the products.
   l The post-harvest losses avoided as the result of the project delivery of processing and storage.
   l Benefits form the equipment given to farmer groups and the development of commercial linkages
         between farmer groups and agricultural merchants.
   l The intangible benefits such as improvement in the living conditions, arising from income increase
         are not valued.

As a result, the incremental benefits may be underestimated, and so also the FRR and ERR.




                                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              January 1996              3    AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
                                             SPECIALISTS (3)
              November 1997             2    AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
                                             SPECIALISTS , TASK
                                             ASSISTANT

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Feb/March 1998            8    AGRICULTURAL
                                             SERVICES SPECIALISTS,
                                             SECTOR MANAGER,
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             ADVISER,
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             EXTENSION SPECIALIST,
                                             RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST, M & E
                                             SPECIALIST,
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST, IFAD

                                        2    FINANCIAL ANALYST,
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST

 Supervision

              10/30/1998                1    AG SERVICES SPECIALIST           S               S
                                             (1)
              02/06/1999                1    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)           S               S
              07/27/1999                6    RURAL SOCIOLOGIST (1);           S               S
                                             AG. SERV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PARTICIPATION SPEC. (2);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPEC. (1)
              07/27/1999                6    AG SERVICES SPECIALIST           S               S
                                             (1); AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             RESEARCH EXTENSION (1);
                                             FINANCIAL EXPERT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)
              07/27/1999                8    RURAL SOCIOLOGIST (1);           S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (3);
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                             SR. PUB. SECTOR MGT SP (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                                             (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)



                                              - 28 -

      10/06/2000       8 TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                         FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                         (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                         RURAL AIDS (1);
                         AGRICULTURE (1);
                         ACCOUNTING SPEC. (1);
                         IFAD PROJECT CONTROLLER
                         (1); RESEARCH/EXTENSION
                         (1)
      10/06/2000       8 TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                         PROCUREMENT (1);
                         FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                         (1); HIV/AIDS (1); RURAL
                         DEVELOPMENT (1); IFAD
                         REPRESENTATIVE (1);
                         RESEARCH (1); TEAM
                         ASSISTANT (1)
      06/06/2001       8 TEAM LEADER (1); AG.         S    S
      (mid-term 1/)      EXTENSION SPEC (1);
                         RESEARCH (1); FINANCIAL
                         MANAGEMENT (1);
                         PROCUREMENT (1);
                         DISBURSEMENT (1); TEAM
                         SUPPORT (1); MONITORING
                         AND EVALUATION (1)
      02/2002          6 AG SERVICES SPEC. RURAL      S    S
                         SPEC. (1); RURAL DEVT
                         SPEC./CONSULTANT (1);
                         LOAN SPEC. (1);
                         DISBURSEMENT SPEC. (1);
                         GENDER SPEC. (1); ADB (1)
      07/2002          5 AG. SERVICES SPEC. (1)       S    S
                         PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                         FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                         DISBURSEMENT SPEC. (1);
                         GENDER SPEC. (1)
      07/2003          3 AG. SERVICES SPEC. (1);      S    S
                         DISBURSEMENT SPEC. (1);
                         FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
      11/2003          4 AG. SERVICES SPEC. (1);      S    S
                         DISBURSEMENT SPEC. (1);
                         FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                         PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST

ICR
      06/2004          3 AG. SERVICES SPEC. (1);      S    S
                         DISBURSEMENT SPEC.
                         (1); PROCUREMENT
                         SPEC. (1)
      ICR Follow-up    1 RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                         SPECIALIST (1)




                         - 29 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                6                           32
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    75                          337
  Supervision                            120                           596
  ICR                                       5                           37
  Total                                  206                         1,003




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document
2. Project Status Reports (1 to 18)
3. Aide-mémoires (1996 to 2004)
4. Audit Reports
5. Borrower's report
6. Studies: (i) Institutional Audit of Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Animal Industries; (ii) Behaviour
   Assessment; (iii) Project Impact Assessment.




                                                    - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

I.        DONNEES DE BASE (See p. 1 of the ICR)

II.       APPRECIATION DES PRINCIPALES PERFORMANCES

Résultats                              Satisfaisant
Pérennité et durabilité                Satisfaisant
Impact sur le développement            Satisfaisant
institutionnel
Performance de la Banque               Satisfaisante
Performance de l'Emprunteur            Satisfaisante
                                       Groupe de Contrôle de Qualité          Rapport d'achèvement
Conformité avec les politiques et      Oui                                     Oui
priorités sectorielles
Projet à risque à tout moment          Non                                     Non



III.      EVALUATION DES OBJECTIFS DE DEVELOPPEMENT, DU DISPOSITIF
INSTITUTIONNEL ET D'EXECUTION DU PROJET

3.1.      Evaluation de l'objectif de développement

Objectif de développement du Projet Accord de crédit 3137 CM

Le projet a pour objectif d'accroître la productivité agricole et les revenus des agriculteurs, en renforçant la
capacité à fournir des services de vulgarisation agricole, en améliorant les activités de recherche dans ce
domaine et en rationalisant progressivement l'utilisation des ressources publiques affectées au service de
vulgarisation.

Evaluation de l'objectif de développement

Les objectifs du projet étaient réalistes et en cohérence avec les priorités du Gouvernement et les Stratégies
d'Assistance des partenaires techniques et financiers au Cameroun, qui portaient sur la création d'un
environnement sectoriel favorable à la reprise de la production agricole, la réalisation de la sécurité
alimentaire, l'accroissement des revenus des paysans par l'amélioration de la productivité et la réduction
des coûts de production, la promotion du développement du secteur privé et la compétitivité sur les marchés
domestiques et internationaux.

Toutefois, la mission d'harmonisation des interventions en milieu rural dans le cadre de la rationalisation de
l'utilisation des ressources publiques affectées au service de vulgarisation agricole n'était pas réaliste au
regard de la position institutionnelle du Projet

3.2.      Evaluation des composantes du projet

Pour atteindre les objectifs de développement, le projet comprenait six (06) composantes à savoir : (1) la
Vulgarisation agricole qui visait (i) le transfert de technologies améliorées respectueuses de
l'environnement, en mettant l'accent sur les besoins des agricultrices ; (ii) la mise à disposition de semences



                                                      - 34 -

améliorées et (iii) l'utilisation plus intensive des médias ; (2) la Recherche agricole qui devait (i) renforcer
les services de recherche agricole de l'IRAD ; (ii) apporter un appui sélectif aux recherches prioritaires en
station ; (iii) former des chercheurs et cadres de l'IRAD ; (iv) renforcer les liens recherche/vulgarisation et
(v) améliorer la qualité et l'efficacité de la recherche grâce à un programme d'octroi de subventions sur
base compétitive axé sur la demande ; (3) la Formation et valorisation des ressources humaines qui
devait apporter un appui à la formation en cours d'emploi et à la réhabilitation à titre pilote de deux ou
trois établissements d'enseignement agricole ; (4) l'Appui aux organisations paysannes et liens avec le
secteur privé qui devait faciliter l'établissement des liens commerciaux entre groupements d'agriculteurs et
acheteurs de produits agricoles et fournisseurs d'intrants, ONG et autres partenaires afin d'améliorer la
fourniture des intrants et la commercialisation des produits ; (5) l'Opération pilote de développement
communautaire participatif villageois chargée d'expérimenter une démarche qui fournisse aux villages
une base pour : (i) établir des priorités de développement rural ; (ii) mettre en oeuvre des programmes
d'action ; et (iii) obtenir de divers prestataires de service (y compris de la vulgarisation) l'aide dont ils ont
besoin ; et (6) l'Évaluation de l'impact du projet et études qui devait appuyer la conception et la mise en
place d'un système de suivi et d'évaluation interne et externe de l'impact du projet et le financement
d'études en vue d'élaborer un plan d'investissements dans le développement rural.

D'une manière globale, les objectifs des composantes contribuaient à l'atteinte des objectifs de
développement du projet. Cependant, à la mise en oeuvre, la faible capacité d'investissement des
producteurs a amené le projet a introduire dans la composante (4) la subvention des
infrastructures/équipements de production, de transformation et de commercialisation.

D'autre part, au regard des ravages causés par l'infection à VIH/SIDA en milieu rural et de la nécessité de
protéger le patrimoine productif (producteurs et vulgarisateurs), le projet a introduit dans sa mise en oeuvre
une 7ème composante, l'opération pilote de prévention de l'infection à VIH/SIDA en milieu rural.

3.3.     Qualité des performances du projet

La qualité des performances du projet est satisfaisante. En effet, les résultats du projet ont contribué à : (i)
réduire sensiblement la pauvreté en milieu rural ; (ii) assurer la sécurité alimentaire ; (iii) prendre en
compte les préoccupations des groupes sociaux défavorisés en particulier les femmes et (iv) préserver
l'environnement social et physique. Toutefois, les performances du projet en matière de promotion du
développement du secteur privé sont insatisfaisantes.

IV.      PRINCIPALES REALISATIONS

4.1.     Par rapport à l'objectif de développement

Les résultats obtenus sont globalement satisfaisants. Le Projet a été opérationnel dans 13 000 villages sur
environ 15 000 que compte le pays. 840 000 familles agricoles sur un total de 1.241.158, soit 67% des
familles agricoles du pays, contre 30% initialement prévu ont bénéficié des services de vulgarisation. Dans
ces 840 000 familles touchées, 488.501 femmes ont été les principales interlocutrices du Projet. Selon
l'évaluation des résultats et l'impact du PNVRA Réalisée en Août 2004 par un Consultant indépendant, 89%
des producteurs enquêtés apprécient positivement les services et les prestations du Projet, 93 % des femmes
des zones enquêtées reçoivent l'assistance du PNVRA, 54% des enquêtés estiment que les femmes sont
suffisamment assistées par le Projet. Par ailleurs, la plupart des technologies développées par le Projet
ciblent les cultures vivrières et le petit élevage qui intéressent au premier chef les femmes. En matière de
préservation de l'environnement, 62,3% de producteurs enquêtés pensent que le Projet a contribué à : (i) la
lutte contre les feux de brousse et la culture sur brûlis ; (ii) la protection des sols par les méthodes



                                                       - 35 -

anti-érosives et (iii) la rétention de l'eau par la construction des ouvrages.

Ces services ont permis d'enregistrer des améliorations suivantes:

Productivité des exploitations agricoles. En rapport avec l'augmentation moyenne annuelle des
rendements de 10% attendue, les principales spéculations ont enregistré des augmentations moyennes
annuelles significatives des rendements entre 1999 Etude de la situation de référence en 1999 par un Consultant
indépendant et 2004² : 36,5% pour le manioc (3 à 8,5 t/ha); 25% pour le maïs (1,3 à 2,9 t/ha) ; 25% pour la
tomate (5,7 à 13 t/ha), et 54% pour la pomme de terre (1,7 à 6,3 t/ha). Concernant les productions
animales, la taille du cheptel chez les agro éleveurs a augmenté au cours de la période de 52,7% pour les
bovins (11 à 17) ; 32,9% pour les porcins (7 à 10), 35,7% pour les caprins (8 à 11) ; 45,1% pour les
volailles (10 à 14), 32,5 % pour les ovins (9 à 12). Dans le domaine de la pêche, 644 pêcheurs organisés en
OP ont été accompagnés. Le taux de perte post capture est ainsi passé de 35% à 20% grâce à l'introduction
des techniques améliorées de salage et fumage de poissons frais et de contrôle des parasites de poissons
secs. De même, dans le domaine de la pisciculture, 330 OP regroupant 2826 pisciculteurs ont bénéficié des
appuis du projet dans les domaines organisationnel, managérial, technique et d'appui en infrastructures et
équipements. La superficie moyenne des étangs est ainsi passé de 850 à 1323 m² par OP et le rendement
moyen de 0,66 à 0,8 kg/m², soit des accroissements moyens respectifs de 55,6 et 21,2% pour la période.

Revenus. L'évaluation des résultats et l'impact ² a démontré que les revenus moyens des producteurs ont
connu une croissance d'environ 20% au cours de la période 1999-2004 , passant de 238.610 FCFA à
285.595 FCFA. Cela représente un taux d'accroissement moyen annuel de 4% contre 5% initialement
prévu. En outre, 58,4% de producteurs ont un revenu annuel supérieur à 200.000 FCFA. Cette tranche
représentait 45,8% en 1999, soit un taux d'accroissement de 27,51% en cinq ans. Les producteurs ayant
des revenus annuels de plus de 500.000 FCFA représentent 29,6% contre 18,4% en 1999. 63% des
producteurs enquêtés affirment que ces augmentations sont dues en grande partie aux appuis apportés par
le PNVRA.

Rationalisation de l'utilisation des ressources : En rapport avec cet objectif, le projet visait (i) une
meilleure coordination des politiques de développement de la production agricole et de réduction de la
pauvreté; (ii). la création des conditions requises pour alléger la charge que les activités de développement
et transfert de technologie font peser sur les finances publiques Tout ceci devait être fait à travers
l'amélioration de la planification, du financement et de l'exécution des activités de vulgarisation et de
recherche agricoles et la réduction progressive des effectifs des agents non productifs des ministères de
l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage, à mesure que le rôle de ces ministères devait être clairement défini.

En rapport avec la coordination des politiques de développement de la production agricole, les
résultats obtenus dans ce domaine sont insatisfaisants. Si le Projet a jeté les bases d'un rapprochement
entre les acteurs de vulgarisation en mettant ensemble les cadres du MINEPIA, du MINREST et du
MINAGRI pour la conduite des activités de vulgarisation, il n'a cependant pas obtenu l'harmonisation des
interventions. En effet, on retrouve toujours d'une part une duplication entre les structures traditionnelles
de vulgarisation (postes agricoles, les centres zootechniques et vétérinaires) et les zones de vulgarisation
dont les missions sont les mêmes et d'autre part une multitude de projets de production agricole dont les
objectifs et les activités chevauchent. Toutefois, les conclusions de l'audit institutionnelle et stratégique
menée pour lever certaines de ces insuffisances sont progressivement prises en compte dans l'actualisation
des schémas organisationnels du MINAGRI et du MINEPIA.

La sous-traitance et le partenariat avec le secteur privé et les Associations professionnelles de producteurs
n'ont pas été suivis d'effets remarquables à cause de l'implication des bénéficiaires. Les schémas testés
avec les ONG et les Associations Professionnelles de Producteurs (APP) révèlent: (i) le nombre et la qualité


                                                       - 36 -

limité en ressources humaines et en moyens matériel et financiers ne leur permettant pas toujours d'honorer
efficacement leurs engagements, (ii) la prise en compte insuffisante par le projet des coûts additionnels liés
aux prestations à fournir., (iii) le retard dans la mobilisation des moyens prévus à cet effet et (iv) le suivi
insuffisant et irrégulier de la mise en oeuvre des conventions.

Pour ce qui est de la création des conditions requises pour alléger les charges que les activités de
développement et de transfert de technologie font peser sur les finances publiques, Le projet a mobilisé
2500 vulgarisateurs et 128 chercheurs avec une gestion rigoureuse du temps de travail, une programmation
efficiente des activités et une budgétisation conséquente. Le MINAGRI et le MINEPIA ont rationalisé
l'utilisation des ressources publiques affectées à la vulgarisation en modifiant les procédures de gestion par
l'ouverture d'une ligne de crédit appelée « ligne de crédit vulgarisation ­ PNVRA » dont les fonds sont
gérés par la Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement. Ainsi depuis 1999, 1,720 milliards ont été inscrits chaque
année sur cette ligne. Cependant, les décaissements effectifs de ces fonds restent un point faible car
seulement 60% de ces fonds ont été décaissés au 10 septembre 2004. Ceux de 2004 restent attendus.

4.2.      Par rapport aux composantes

Les résultats obtenus dans la mise en oeuvre des différentes composantes sont d'une manière générale
satisfaisants.

Vulgarisation agricole. 196² technologies développées par la recherche ont été vulgarisées auprès des
producteurs. Ces technologies ont trait à l'amélioration des techniques culturales/systèmes de cultures et
d'élevage ; des techniques de conservation ; de protection des cultures et des produits ; de conservation de
l'environnement de production, et d'utilisation du matériel végétal ou animal. Le taux moyen d'adoption de
ces technologies vulgarisées est de 48,5%. Selon 75% de producteurs, deux raisons majeures freinent
l'adoption d'autres technologies : l'accès aux ressources péri technologiques et la pénibilité des
technologies de protection de l'environnement.

Dans les zones à écologie fragile, le projet a contribué à l'aménagement de 6 370 hectares et à la
construction de 124 biefs en vue de réduire l'érosion et de préserver la fertilité des sols.

Dans le domaine de la production des semences, 879 multiplicateurs de semences ont été formés permettant
la production et la mise à la disposition aux producteurs de 63 tonnes de semences de maïs, 75 tonnes de
semences de pomme de terre, et 7,2 tonnes de niébé entre 2002 et 2004.

Pour élargir l'accès aux conseils et services de vulgarisation, le projet a signé 10 conventions avec des
radios rurales pour la diffusion des informations à caractère technico-économiques en direction des
producteurs et des opérateurs économiques.

Recherche agricole. Le renforcement de liens entre la vulgarisation, la recherche agricole et les
bénéficiaires a permis la mise en oeuvre effective d'une recherche adaptative menée en priorité en milieu
paysan et permettant de tester et de trouver les solutions aux problèmes recensés. Selon l'étude², les
chercheurs pensent que les activités d'interface ont permis de relancer leurs activités (47%) ; d'améliorer
leur programme de recherche (26%) ; d'améliorer leur façon de travailler (84%) ; d'améliorer l'esprit de
travail en équipe (78,1%) ; de prendre en compte des pratiques paysannes dans le développement des
technologies (54,8%) et de transférer les technologies développées aux producteurs (74,2%).

De même, le fonds de recherche sur base compétitive a créé entre les chercheurs, un esprit d'émulation et
de compétitivité. 14 projets de recherche exécutés sur le terrain adressent les problèmes prioritaires des
producteurs identifiés lors des diagnostics participatifs des exploitations agricoles. En même temps, ce


                                                     - 37 -

fonds a contribué à mobiliser des compétences multidisciplinaires et multi institutionnelles garantissant au
vu des résultats intermédiaires la qualité des prestations.

Formation et valorisation des ressources humaines. Les formations régulières organisées à l'intention de
2500 vulgarisateurs et 128 chercheurs leur ont permis d'être plus opérationnels et mieux prendre en
compte les préoccupations des producteurs dans les domaines technique, managérial et organisationnel.

Appui aux organisations des producteurs et liens avec le secteur privé. Le projet a contribué à la
structuration du milieu et à l'établissement des liens commerciaux entre les groupements de producteurs et
les opérateurs économiques.

S'agissant de la structuration du milieu, les résultats de l'étude² montrent que 77% des producteurs
appartiennent aux organisations de producteurs dont 30% sont issues de l'action du PNVRA. Ainsi, le
projet a facilité l'émergence de 13 877 OP de base parmi lesquelles 1605 ont été regroupées en 79 APP et
12 fédérations autour de 8 filières porteuses (maïs, pomme de terre, pisciculture, lait, oignon, manioc,
aviculture et bananier plantain).

En ce concerne les liens commerciaux entre les groupements de producteurs et les opérateurs économiques
(fournisseurs d'intrants, établissements de micro-finance et agro-industries), 474 arrangements contractuels
dont 386 pour la fourniture d'intrants, 50 pour les crédits de campagne, 21 pour les contrats de production
et 17 pour la commercialisation ont été établis. Ces arrangements contractuels ont favorisé d'une part de
réduire le coût unitaire des intrants (engrais, poussins, etc.), et d'autre part, de disposer d'un marché avec
des prix garantis. A titre d'exemple, il est établi que ces contrats ont favorisé la réduction sensible du coût
unitaire des engrais minéraux et des poussins d'un jour respectivement de 13 000 FCFA à 9 000 FCFA le
sac de 50 kg, et de 450 FCFA à 350 FCFA le poussin.

En vue de permettre à ces organisations de producteurs de faire face à leurs engagements contractuels et
d'améliorer leur niveau d'investissement, leurs capacités ont été renforcées dans les domaines technique,
managérial et des appuis en infrastructures/équipements productifs.

Les résultats et l'impact du projet² révèlent que 90,2% de producteurs ont reçu un appui technique dans le
cadre de l'exécution de leurs projets. 48,6% des OP sont capables de définir leur vision de développement
ainsi que les objectifs y afférents. Dans le domaine des appuis en infrastructures/équipements, sur 1857
demandes (d'un montant de 1 884 869 878 FCFA) sélectionnées et approuvées par les comités paritaires, 1
263 ont été effectivement financés pour un montant total de 1.322 869.878 FCFA. 520 demandes financées
appartiennent aux femmes. Dans l'ensemble 43% sont pour les productions végétales, 41% pour les
productions animales et halieutiques, et 16% pour les productions mixtes. Les projets financés 45,60%
portent sur les équipements de conservation et de transformation de produits agricoles destinés
principalement aux femmes (râpeuses, moulins, pressoirs, laiteries, magasins, abri-séchoirs) ; 39,74%
concernent les infrastructures et équipements de production ; 10% portent sur les infrastructures de
commercialisation et équipements de transport (magasins, charrettes, porte-tout, brouettes, bascules) et
4,66% concernent les infrastructures et équipements hydrauliques (aménagements de mares et retenues
colinéaires, abreuvoirs).

Ces infrastructures et équipements ont permis (i) d'alléger la pénibilité du travail, (ii) d'améliorer la
productivité, (iii) de réduire les pertes post-récoltes, et (iv) de promouvoir la transformation des produits
agricoles. A titre d'illustration, on a noté (i) la réduction des pertes post-récolte des ignames de 40 à 20% et
l'amélioration du prix de vente (de 1 500 à 5000 le seau de 15l), grâce à l'acquisition d'un magasin de
conservation et de stockage conduisant à un meilleur étalement des périodes de vente; (ii) l'amélioration de


                                                        - 38 -

la productivité dans la transformation du café et allègement des travaux des femmes, du fait de la mise en
place d'une unité de transformation. (2 kg de produit transformé manuellement par semaine précédemment
contre 60 kg par heure actuellement) dans le cas d'une organisation de producteurs spécialisée dans la
production et la transformation du café robusta en café moulu (province du Centre).

Opération pilote de développement communautaire participatif villageois. Cette de opération a été conduite
dans deux Départements (Noun et Mayo-Louti). 320 villages au lieu 100 initialement prévus ont été
couverts. 184 formateurs APNV dont            167 issus des administrations sectorielles, 7 des collectivités
territoriales décentralisées et 10 de la société civile et ONG ont été formés. Des plans de développement de
ces villages ont été élaborés et mis en oeuvre à partir de la mobilisation de moyens endogènes: 40% de ces
réalisations portent sur les adduction d'eau potable; 25% sur la réhabilitation/construction d'infrastructures
scolaires et leur équipement; 10% sur la réhabilitation/construction d'infrastructures sanitaires et leur
équipement en produits de soins de première nécessité ; 10% sur les ouvrages de franchissement de cours
d'eaux et 15% sur d'autres réalisations (cantonnage routier, aménagement de bas fonds,...). Les acquis et
les expériences de cette opération ont servi à la conception du Programme National de Développement
Participatif, et du Programme d'Appui au Développement Communautaire.

Operation de prevention contre le VIH /SIDA en milieu rural. Les actions entreprises dans ce domaine
entre 1999 et 2001, ont permis de (i) sensibiliser et eduquer directement pres de 800.000 familles agricoles
sur les 1.241.250, soit 80%) ; (ii) mettre en place 300 comites locaux villageois de lutte communautaire
contre le vih/sida dans les villages apnv ; (iii) former 15.648 pairs educateurs sur les techniques de
communication pour le changement de comportement ; (iv) former 2.500 cadres et agents du reseau
PNVRA.

Cette expérience porteuse est le précurseur des méthodologies d'actions adoptées par divers Programmes et
projets de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA au Cameroun.

Évaluation de l'impact du projet et études. Un système efficace de remontée et d'analyse des données
relatives aux principaux indicateurs de suivi des activités et des résultats a été mis en place au niveau des
supervisions régionales, provinciales et nationale. La consolidation des acquis de ce système a permis de
concevoir un logiciel approprié de suivi évaluation des micro-projets des organisations de producteurs dans
l'ensemble des 10 provinces. Cette composante a facilité la mise en oeuvre des études prévues dans le
cadre du projet (revue à mi parcours, évaluation de l'impact, audit institutionnel).

4.3.     Taux de réalisation financière

Le financement global du projet était évalué à 29.241.211.000 francs CFA dont 23.596.603.000 pour le
volet vulgarisation et 5.644.608.000 francs CFA pour la recherche (IRAD). Quatre bailleurs ont contribué
à ce financement à savoir : le Gouvernement du Cameroun (7 085 260 000 FCFA) ; l'IDA (9 752 814 000
FCFA) ; le FIDA ( 6 758 529 000 FCFA) et la BAD (5 644 608 000 FCFA). Le taux de consommation
global des financements au 09 septembre 2004 est de 79,80% et reparti ainsi qu'il suit : (i) IDA : 97,54% ;
FIDA: 43,23% ; Gouvernement du Cameroun: 90,26% et BAD : 43%.

L'on constate une disparité entre la consommation des fonds du prêt FIDA par rapport aux deux autres
bailleurs sur les crédits alloués. Cette situation se justifie en grande partie par le refus du FIDA de financer
l'acquisition des 1500 motos initialement prévu, ajouté à la faible consommation des fonds alloués à
l'interface (42,74%).




                                                       - 39 -

4.4.     Impact institutionnel

L'impact du développement institutionnel du Projet sur le plan opérationnel est satisfaisant. En effet, le
Projet a contribué à améliorer de manière significative les méthodes de programmation et de gestion des
activités des services de vulgarisation, lesquelles méthodes ont été adoptées par d'autres services publics et
programmes. Par ailleurs, les ressources humaines, financières et matérielles mises à la disposition du
projet ont été utilisées de manière efficiente.

V.       PRINCIPAUX FACTEURS AYANT AFFECTE LA MISE EN OEUVRE ET LES
RESULTATS Y COMPRIS LES ASPECTS FINANCIERS

Facteurs contrôlables par le Gouvernement. (i) L'instabilité du personnel ayant affecté partiellement les
résultats; (ii) le non-respect du plan de passation des marchés par les Commissions externes au Projet dont
la célérité dans le traitement des dossiers est incompatible au fonctionnement du projet, ce qui a affecté
substantiellement les résultats par la non acquisition des moyens logistiques pendant toute la durée du
projet (c'est le cas de l'acquisition des 24 pirogues à moteur qui devait permettre d'accompagner
efficacement les organisations de pêcheurs); (iii) l'inexistence de texte d'application de la loi semencière qui
a affecté partiellement les résultats car il n'a pas été possible de produire des semences de base ; (v)
l'accumulation des arriérés due aux procédures complexes de mobilisation des fonds internes et (vi) la
mobilisation des ressources financières n'était pas en adéquation avec le programme technique, ce qui a
affecté substantiellement les résultats du projet.

Facteurs hors du contrôle du Gouvernement. L'accumulation des arriérés due aux délais longs dans le
traitement des dossiers de retrait de fonds externes du FIDA.

VI.      PERRENISATION ET DURABILITE

6.1.     Consolidation des acquis

Eu égard à la dynamique générée en milieu paysan par le recentrage des activités du projet autour des
opérations pilotes et la nécessité de préserver les acquis, le Gouvernement a inscrit dans sa stratégie la mise
en place d'un programme d'appui au secteur productif et le comité de pilotage a été instruit à cet effet. Un
tel programme va davantage développer les filières, avec un accent particulier sur la pêche et l'élevage
transhumant, apporter des appuis en infrastructures et équipements de production, et favoriser une forte
implication sur base compétitive des agences privées d'exécution ; ce qui nécessiterait l'allègement du
dispositif public d'exécution actuel. Par ailleurs, la responsabilisation des           bénéficiaires dans la
programmation, l'exécution, le suivi et leur participation aux instances de décision et de gestion seront
renforcées. La coordination d'un tel dispositif serait assurée par une agence autonome.

6.2.     Dispositions transitoires

Le financement par le Gouvernement des activités à concurrence de 65% des charges de fonctionnement du
projet a permis de préserver les acquis. Le MINAGRI et le MINEPIA se sont engagés à maintenir : (i) au
moins au niveau actuel (1 720 millions F CFA) les inscriptions budgétaires en faveur des activités de
vulgarisation, (ii) le mécanisme de gestion de ces fonds à travers la Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
(CAA). De plus, une enveloppe de 9 395 207 667 FCFA des fonds PPTE a été accordée à ces ministères
pour une période de deux ans, à compter de 2005. Par ailleurs 3.037.274.000 F CFA ont été également
accordés au MINREST sur fonds PPTE pour la production de semences de base et de pré-base. Enfin, le
MINREST s'est engagé à inscrire au compte de l'année 2005 dans le budget d'investissement public 46


                                                      - 40 -

000 000 FCFA pour conduire à terme les projets de recherche sur base compétitive en cours d'exécution.
Par ailleurs, le Gouvernement s'est engagé à améliorer les décaissements des fonds alloués au financement
des projets.

Le Gouvernement poursuivra ses efforts de création d'un cadre favorable à l'émergence d'un secteur privé
fort capable de prendre à terme en charge une partie des coûts des activités de vulgarisation. Toutes ces
actions participent de l'engagement du Gouvernement de prendre en charge de façon progressive la
quasi-totalité des charges de fonctionnement des services de vulgarisation.

VII.    PERFORMANCES DES PARTENAIRES TECHNIQUES ET FINANCIERS ET DU
GOUVERNEMENT

7.1.    Performances des partenaires techniques et financiers

L'assistance des partenaires techniques et financiers dans la préparation, la mise en oeuvre et le suivi du
Projet a été globalement satisfaisante. En particulier, l'approche participative de supervisions et de suivi
(téléconférences, élaboration conjointe des aides mémoires,...) qui est passée depuis 2002, d'une logique de
contrôle à une logique plus affirmée de renforcement des capacités techniques et managériales, a permis au
projet d'améliorer significativement ses performances.

7.2.    Performances du Gouvernement

Les performances du Gouvernement sont jugées dans l'ensemble satisfaisantes. En effet, le MINAGRI, le
MINEPIA et le MINREST ont conjointement (i) mis à la disposition du projet le personnel nécessaire pour
la conduite de ses activités ; (ii) financé à hauteur de 65% les charges de fonctionnement des services de
vulgarisation sur leurs budgets respectifs. Par ailleurs, le MINFI a allégé les procédures de contrôle
(contrôle à posteriori en lieu et place du contrôle à priori) qui ont contribué à accélérer le rythme de
consommation et améliorer le taux de décaissement des fonds (taux de consommation du Crédit IDA
environ 98%).

La faible coordination par le Gouvernement des interventions des partenaires techniques et financiers
extérieurs (IDA, FIDA, BAD, UE, AFD...) limite ses efforts dans la mise en oeuvre efficace de sa stratégie
de développement du secteur rural (création d'une multitude de projets dont les objectifs et les activités se
chevauchent).

VIII.   PRINCIPAUX ENSEIGNEMENTS

    1. L'efficacité du système de vulgarisation mis en place axé notamment sur la participation et la
    responsabilisation des producteurs a créé auprès de ceux-ci un climat de confiance et de partenariat.

    2. Les appuis en infrastructures et équipements productifs ont permis d'augmenter les échelles/tailles
    de production et les productions, de renforcer l'esprit associatif des producteurs,        de valoriser
    significativement les productions des exploitations agricoles et partant d'améliorer les revenus des
    producteurs.

    3. Le projet a approuvé des requêtes de financement des micro-projets de production d'un montant
    total supérieur à l'enveloppe allouée. Ce qui pourrait compromettre le climat de confiance entre le
    projet et les bénéficiaires.



                                                    - 41 -

   4. La promotion d'une agriculture contractuelle a permis d'une part d'améliorer la production des
   organisations de producteurs et d'autre part de faire participer activement le secteur privé notamment
   les opérateurs économiques aux activités de vulgarisation.

   5. L'implication du secteur privé notamment des ONG dans la mise en oeuvre des activités de
   vulgarisation devrait s'accompagner d'un renforcement préalable de leurs capacités managériales et
   financières.

   6.   L'organisation des producteurs autour des projets de production avec des objectifs de
   développement clairement définis a permis de déclancher une dynamique de structuration du milieu
   rural et faciliter l'émergence des organisations de producteurs fortes, véritables          partenaires de
   développement.

   7. La responsabilisation des organisations de producteurs dans le suivi et l'évaluation des actions des
   vulgarisateurs a permis d'obtenir des meilleurs résultats.

   8. L'accompagnement des éleveurs transhumants et des pêcheurs artisanaux continentaux nécessite
   des approches spécifiques.

   9.   L'amélioration de la gestion des fonds publics (budgets des postes agricoles, des centres
   zootechniques et vétérinaires, des délégations d'arrondissement,...) à travers la CAA et la conduite des
   audits sur les fonds a permis de rationaliser l'utilisation des ressources publiques affectées aux services
   de vulgarisation. Cette gestion qui obéit aux normes de bonne gouvernance et de transparence pourrait
   être étendue à d'autres administrations.

   10. Le renforcement des liens entre la recherche, la vulgarisation et les organisations de producteurs a
   permis de mettre au point les technologies adaptées aux besoins des producteurs.

   11. La recherche sur base compétitive a permis de valoriser et de mettre au profit des agriculteurs
   toutes les compétences en matière de recherche agricole.


                                                           Fait à Yaoundé, le 15 Septembre 2004



S.E Monsieur le Ministre de la                          S.E Monsieur le Ministre de `l'Elevage,
Recherche Scientifique et Technique                     des Pêches et des Industries Animales


S.E Monsieur le Ministre d'Etat
Chargé de l'Agriculture




                                                    - 42 -

- 43 -

