Document of
the International Development Association
Report No. 18422-CM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 11.4 MILLION (US$15.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FORA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
AND RESEARCH PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
September 21, 1998
Rural Development 2
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc (FCFA)
US$1.00 = CFA franc 620 (April 1998)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS
ADF            African Development Fund (Fonds Africain pour le Developpement)
AfDB           African Development Bank - (Banque Africaine de Developpement)
AVZ            Front line field staff (Agent de Vulgarisation de Zone)
BA             Beneficiary Assessment
CAA            Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy (Strategie d'Assistance au Pays)
CFD            Caisse Francaise pour le Developpement
CIRAD          International Agricultural Research Center for Development (Centre International
de la Recherche Agricole pour le Developpernent)
CPPR           Country Portfolio Progress
DAG            General Administration Directorate (Direction des Affaires Gendrales)
DDC&GR         Community Development and Rural Works Directorate (Direction du Developpement
Communautaire et du Genie Rural)
DEC            Directorate of Studies and Cooperation (MINEPIA) (Direction des Etudes et
Cooperation)
DEPA           Agricultural Projects and Studies Directorate (Direction des Etudes et Projets
Agricoles)
DIRPEC         Directorate for Fisheries (Direction des Pehes)
DPA            Agricultural Production Directorate (Direction de la Production Agricole)
DPIA           Animal Production and Industries Directorate (Direction de la Production et Industries
Animales)
EU             European Union (Union Europ6enne)
FAO            Food and Agricultural Organization
GOC            Government of Cameroon
HEVECAM        Societe d'Hevea du Cameroun
ICB            International Competitive Bidding (Appel d'Offres International)
IDA            International Development Association (Association Internationale de
D&veloppement)
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development (Fonds International de
Ddveloppement Agricole)
IRAD           Agricultural Research Institute for Development (Institut de Recherche Agricole
pour le Developpement)
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MFI            Micro-Finance Institution
MINAGRI        Ministry of Agriculture (Ministere de l'Agriculture)
MINEPIA        Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Animal Industries (Ministere de I'Elevage, des
Paches, et des Industries Animales)
MINREST        Ministry of Technical and Scientific Research (Ministere de la Recherche Scientifique
et Technique)
NCB            National Competitive Bidding (Appel d'Offres National)
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization (Organisation non-gouvernementale)
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
PER            Public Expenditure Review
PNVA           National Agricultural Extension Program (Programme National de Vulgarisation
Agricole)
PY             Project Year
QAG            Quality Assurance Group
SMS            Subject Matter Specialist (Technicien Specialise)
SOASP          Farmner Organizations and Links with the Private Sector Specialist (Specialiste en
Organisations et Associations Paysannes et Liens avec le Secteur Prive)
SODECOTON   Societe de Developpement du Coton
SPRA           Presidential Secretariat for Administrative Reform (Secr*tariat Presidentiel pour
la Reforme Administrative)
TSE            Environment Subject Matter Specialist (Technicien Specialise en Environnement)
Vice President    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director    Serge Michailof
Sector Manager    Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader    Christopher Trapman



iii
Cameroon
National Agricultural Extension and Research Program Support Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PROJECT FINANCING DATA ...................................................................................1
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES ..................................................................................                                                           2
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (SEE ANNEx 1) .......................................... 2
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT ..................................................................................                                                                        2
SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT (SEE ANNEX 1) .........2
MAIN  SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY ..................................................................................                                                 2
SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES ............................................................... 6
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY .................................................................................                                                               9
PROJECT COMPONENTS .................................................................................                                                                           9
KEY     POLICY  A       ND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED  BY  THE PROJECT .................................................................... 10
BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION .................................................................................                                                              10
INSTITUTIONAL AND  IMPLEMENTATION  ARRANGEMENTS ...............................................1.................................. I 
D. PROJECT RATIONALE .................................................................................                                                                        15
PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED  AND  REASONS FOR REJECTION .......................................................................... 15
MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES .................................. 16
LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS PROJECTS AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN ............................................. 18
INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND  OWNERSHIP .................................................................................                                            19
VALUE-ADDED  OF BANK  SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT .................................................................................                                               19
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS .................................................................................                                                                20
ECONOMIC .................................................................................                                                                                   20
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .................................................................................                                                                         21
TECHNICAL ANALYSIS .................................................................................                                                                         22
INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS .................................................................................                                                                     22
SOCIAL ISSUES .................................................................................                                                                              23
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT .................................................................................                                                                   24
PARTICIPATORY APPROACH .................................................................................                                                                     24
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS .................................................................................                                                                25
SUSTAINABILITY .................................................................................                                                                              25
CRITICAL RISKS .................................................................................                                                                             25
POSSIBLE CONTROVERSiAL ASPECTS .................................................................................                                                             26



iv
G. MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS ....................................................                                                                                  27
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................                                                                           28
L COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ...................................................                                                                            28
ANNEXES .......,0.29
ANNEX 1 - PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY ...................................................                                                                           29
ANNEX 2 - DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION ....................................................                                                                     33
ANNEx 3 - ESTIMATED PROGRAM COST ...................................................                                                                            49
ANNEX4 - COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY ....................................................                                                                    50
ANNEX 5 - FINANCIAL SUMMARY ...................................................                                                                                52
ANNEX 6 - PROJECT PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS ....................................................                                               53
ANNEx 7 - PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE ....................................................                                                           62
ANNEx 8 - DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE ...................................................                                                                        63
ANNEX 9 - STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS ...................................................                                                                   64
ANNEX  0 - CAMEROON AT A GLANCE ..................................................... 65
Map No: 1BRD29544



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 1
Cameroon: Agrcultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Cameroon
National Agricultural Extension and Research Program Support Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Rural Development 2
Project Financing Data
Date: September 21, 1998                       Task Team Leader: Christopher Trapman
Country Manager/Director: Serge Michailof      Sector Manager/Director: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project ID: CM-PE-45348 Sector: Agriculture    Program Objective Cat: Economic management
Lending Instrument: SIL                        PTI:               [ X] Yes       [] No
Project Financing Data   [] Loan   [X] Credit          [ ] Guarantee  [] Other [Specify]
For Credits: Total project cost is estimated at US$46.1 million over 4 years, of which IDA funding is
being sought for US$15.1 million.
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$15.1m/SDR1 1.4 m
Proposed Terms:                       []   Multicurrency     [ ]  Single currency
Grace period (years):  10       []   Standard Variable  [ ]  Fixed    [] LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:  40
Commitment fee: N/A
Service charge:  0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):
Source                            Local                Foreign                 Total
Government                         9.9                   0.2                    10.1
IFAD                               3.2                   7.4                    10.6
IDA                               10.4                   4.7                    15.1
ADF                                4.7                   5.6                    10.3
Total                             28.2                   17.9                  46.1
Borrower: Republic of Cameroon
Program Implementation period: Four years for this phase
Responsible Agency(ies): Ministry of Agriculture
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
1998/99    1999/00    2000/01    2001/02    2002/03      2003/04
Annual                     2.5        4.2         3.2        3.4         1.9
Cumulative                 2.5        6.7         9.9        13.3       15.1
Expected Effectiveness Date: January 1999    Expected Closing Date: June 2003



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 2
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
Foreword
This PAD has been prepared jointly with IFAD and will be used to justify funding from that institution.
It is more detailed than suggested in the guidelines in order that full project details are clear to both
partners. It also responds to comments raised by the QAG review in October 1997.
A. Project Development Objectives
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (SEE ANNEX 1)
1.    The project will contribute to improve farmers' agricultural productivity and incomes in a
sustainable way, through providing support to an integrated, farmer-orientated agricultural extension
system and a demand-driven research system. It aims at completing the reform of one of the two main
operational branches of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Department of Agricultural Production (DPA)
initiated with the Bank financed PNVA. While attempting to provide services to all farmers, the project
will progressively concentrate on small resource-poor farmers and women food crop producers on a
priority basis. It will assist farmers, particularly market-oriented farmers to develop professional
associations capable in due course to provide technology transfer services to their members on a
financially sustainable basis. It will test alternative methods for agricultural services delivery.
B. Strategic Context
SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE
PROJECT (SEE ANNEX 1)
CAS Document no: 15275-CM, January 17, 1996 and Progress Report no IDA/R98-14 of March
12, 1998
2.    The Cameroon CAS emphasizes the need to consolidate the benefits of devaluation, improve the
productivity of the poor and create a climate favorable for private sector development. The previous
Agricultural Extension project (Ln. 3185-CM) has already had a significant impact on the productivity of
farmers in remote areas, where previous projects have had little impact (par.47 - 51). The next phase of
funding, will continue to be the main lending instrument contributing to poverty alleviation in the rural
areas through direct improvement of agricultural incomes and productivity of farmers at all levels of
technical advancement. It will contribute to the creation of a favorable environment for private sector
activity by assuring the transfer of technology to hundreds of thousands of private farmers. By
developing linkages between private partners (commercial and developmental) and public agricultural
advisory services, it will stimulate new investments by the former in rural areas, as has already occurred
following initiatives started under the previous phase of program funding.
MAIN SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
3.    Sector Issues - The response of traditional export crops producers to the price adjustment
brought about by the CFA devaluation has been remarkable. New export crops responding to new market
opportunities have begun to be developed. Government has begun privatizing State-owned commercial
ventures operating in the traditional export crop markets and this will be supported and accelerated under
the proposed SAC III operation. Strengthening farmers' associations, especially in cash crops, to take
over some of the functions previously undertaken by parastatals and by the Government Administration is
important and is receiving support from other donors, in particular the French AFD and the EU. A major
issue in extension policy is the elaboration of a flexible approach, linking the development of effective
technology transfer services to all farmers, with the requirement that such services be taken over by
private enterprise and farmers' associations wherever the financial conditions of beneficiaries no longer
justify spending taxpayer money in support of technology transfer activities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 3
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
4.     Extension policy - The above considerations introduce an important distinction with respect to
the role of the State in promoting technology development in agricultural production. It is generally
accepted that the State has an important role to play in funding extension services. Service delivery
should however not be the exclusive reserve of the State. Similarly it is important to make a distinction
between exclusively market-oriented farmers and those producing for subsistence. The public sector has
an important role to play with regard to the latter category, while the former category should gradually be
oriented towards developing linkages with the private sector, and ultimately becoming financially self
sustainable, either individually or in groups, with respect to acquisition of technical know how.
Government is aware of these issues and the project design includes features aimed at assisting the
transaction to a better focused policy in this respect, by testing practical ways in which such policy can be
implemented.
5.     A stock of technological innovations already exists which can support important productivity
increases in Cameroonian agriculture. Most of these can be adopted by small farmers, and do not require
investment of cash resources beyond the means of the poorest sections of the community. The readiness
of agricultural producers to mobilize the resources (in labor and cash) required to adopt technology
changes which bring about significant returns without increasing risk, is testified by their response to
market signals on many occasions, and in particular following the January 1994 devaluation of the FCFA.
The first phase project has shown that the successful transfer of technological innovations in agriculture
depends on successful continuous generation of adaptable technologies which respond to producers' felt
needs, and less on the availability of targeted financial resources offered to promote their adoption.
6.     Agricultural Research. A continuous generation of technological solutions requires a dynamic
agricultural research. This is an issue area which needs addressing on a priority basis. This is not only a
matter of resource availability and technical skill development. In Cameroon, it is primarily a matter of
orientation, selection and programming of priority research themes, planning of specific research
projects, and efficiency in the implementation of such projects. In the research area also it is useful to
keep in mind the distinction between primarily market oriented specific crop producers, and primarily
subsistence oriented multiple crops producers. Research themes which would affect the long term
prospects of Cameroonian agriculture to keep and improve its comparative advantage on the global
market cannot be identified by farmers alone and remain the responsibility of Government supported
research institutions. On the other hand, research themes which affect the immediate production
problems of small farmers, whether primarily market or subsistence oriented, should be identified with
their active participation. The participatory diagnostic practices experimented by the PNVA provide an
initial methodological basis for associating the clients in the identification of research themes of interest
to them, and this process will be considerably strengthened under the project.
7.     Government willingness to reform public sector research activities is witnessed by the recent
reorganization of the agricultural research institutes into a single unit (IRAD), the streamlining of the
organization structure of the unified institution, and the drafting of a medium term research development
plan for IRAD. However, a major issue to be addressed is the need to improve the system whereby
research programs are drawn up and priorities are set. There is a considerable gap still to be filled to
ensure that research programs are closely related to solving farmers' priority problems, and in particular
those of resource poor farmers. The project will support measures (a) to strengthen the process, already
initiated with the ongoing PNVA project, of associating research staff closely with the work of the
extension staff, particularly, but not exclusively, at the participatory diagnostic stage, and (b) to develop
effective channels and procedures which would ensure that research themes originating in the
participatory diagnostic work are reflected in the formulation of specific research programs and that these
programs are effectively implemented.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 4
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
8.     A second important issue is the need to stimulate better efficiency in the agricultural research
system, which can only be brought about by stimulating competition. IRAD is not the only institution
capable of handling agricultural research in Cameroon. There is scope for involving the Universities,
potentially interested private enterprises, and other public and private institutions of the sub-region as
well. Potential suppliers of research services ought to be enabled to compete for research funding, and
such competition is expected to contribute to efficiency in delivery, reducing costs, and to improve the
quality of products. The project features a special financial arrangement (par. 19) designed to bring about
a competitive environment in the agricultural research field, which represents an important innovation in
Cameroon.
9.     Rural Development Institutions. Another major issue is the clarification of the role of the Public
Administration agencies dealing with rural development, a responsibility which is now split between four
different Ministries. Problems to be resolved include, inter-alia, the elimination of duplication of units
offering similar services, the exploitation of the economies of scale which can be achieved through
unification of services, and the decentralization of a currently very centralized decision making
administrative and financial management machinery. The Government has appointed a Presidential
Secretariat responsible for Reform of the Administration (SPRA) to review the entire Administration and
make proposals for reform. The new Minister of Agriculture is giving serious consideration to ways to
restructure the Ministry to achieve better efficiency and eliminate duplication. The project will contribute
to furthering this process in parallel to the civil service reform efforts, which are part of the structural
adjustment program. Furthermore, an initial step has been taken towards integrating agriculture and
livestock extension activities through the memorandum of understanding signed by the Ministry of
Livestock, Fisheries and Animal Industries (MINEPIA) and the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI) in
February 1997, which defines the areas of collaboration between the two Ministries, along the lines of a
similar agreement signed between the Ministries of Agriculture and Scientific Research in April 1996
following the creation of IRAD.
10.    Currently the Ministry of Agriculture includes two operational departments: the Directorate of
Agricultural Production (DPA) and the Directorate for Rural Works and Community Development
(DDC&GR), the latter dealing with rural infrastructure and community development, including nutrition
and home economics extension, and women in development. The Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and
Animal Industries similarly has two operational Departments, the first responsible for Animal Production
and Animal Industries and the second responsible for Fisheries.  The main issues affecting the
performance of the two Ministries include: (i) ineffective management of national budget in support of
agricultural development objectives; (ii) lack of clear objectives for a large proportion of agriculture
sector staff, which will be addressed by the project; (iii) diffused effectiveness of field services by the
continued presence of multiple projects, the reduction of which is a stated objective of both Ministries;
(iv) absence of advisory services available to a broad spectrum of farmers, particularly to women farmers
who produce the bulk of food crops; (v) lack of trained agricultural, zootechnical and veterinary
technicians to fill posts which will become vacant as elder staff retire; (vi) lack of coordination of donor
activities in support of research and extension; and (vii) absence of an effective system of monitoring and
evaluation of services provided to farmers, a major concern of decision-makers; (viii) need to improve
the extremely low levels of civil service remuneration since the early 1990s. All these issues, except for
(viii) are being addressed by the project.
11.    As a result of the Bank-supported national extension program, the MINAGRI has acquired a
positive experience in operations management and decentralization for part of its services and staff. The
field extension services supported by the PNVA introduced substantial changes in the modus operandi of
the Directorate of Agricultural Production, including clear cut specific work programs and gradually
developed a decentralized system of funding, with some scope for independent contracting at provincial



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 5
Cameroon: Agdcultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
level. Decision making on many matters, including work planning is decentralized at the level of the
Agricultural Regions, one step lower than the Provincial Administration. The system currently provides a
successful model which the Ministry is considering to extend to its other operating branches.
12.    Funding and channeling offundsfor rural development. Of particular concern is the situation
with regard to budgeting, release of funds, spending procedures and audit in the Government of
Cameroon generally, and in the MINAGRI in particular. Some of the current problems are due to the
extremely tight conditions under which the Finance Ministry has operated since the early 1990s with a
view to reversing the catastrophic Government financial position cumulated over the years. The
measures taken by the Finance Ministry to regulate liquidity and flow of public funds have been drastic
but are showing signs of success.
13.    Government's declared objective is to increase, over time, the flow of funds actually available to
agriculture and rural development in such a way as to reach a share of the budget more in line with the
share of the sector contribution to GDP. This would imply a substantial increase over time. The Ministry
of Finance has recently doubled the recurrent budget allocation to the field services of the Ministry of
Agriculture. If these amounts were actually made available, they would be almost sufficient to substitute
for external funding of the operational costs of extension. However, under current circumstances, not all
budgeted funds are released due to the inefficiencies and bureaucratic constraints of the funding release
system, which compound the constraints imposed by limited Government cash flow. The project
includes measures to improve this (par. 23).
14.    Other rural sector issues. At producers' level, other important constraints besides adaptable
technology generation and transfer include: (a) poor quality of rural transport infrastructure; (b) limited
availability of agricultural inputs, in particular of good quality seeds, planting material and breeding
stock, to be addressed under the proposed project; (c) outside the export crop chains, poorly developed
linkages between producers and buyers, an issue to be addressed under the project; and (d) access to rural
finance, in spite of the impressive development of new financial services micro-institutions (MFIs) in the
private sector. These mobilize local savings and lend to creditworthy borrowers without imposing pre-
determined criteria regarding loan objectives. Rural finance issues continue to be important. Support for
improvements in rural infrastructure is provided by IDA under the Transport Sector Project, which has a
major rural roads maintenance component. The lending program includes operations in support of rural
water supply and rural finance.
15.    Government Strategy - The Letter of Agricultural Development Policy, published in 1995,
confirmed the Government's policy of economic liberalization and withdrawal from direct involvement in
production and marketing activities. Activities of MINAGRI and MINEPIA now focus predominantly on
improving the accessibility of advisory services to farmers and on strengthening regulatory services to
ensure quality of inputs available to farmers. The strategy for agricultural advisory services is presented
in the September 1997 Agricultural Extension Policy statement, which was developed under the National
Agricultural Extension Project (Ln. 3185-CM), emphasizes: (i) professionalism - by which field staff
will be freed of subsidiary activities and be able to concentrate on improving their professional skills and
spending the bulk of their time with their clients: (ii) a single line of command; (iii) access by all farmers
to the service; (iv) participatory farming systems diagnosis by farmers, extension and research staff; (v)
close links with research and other farmer support structures; (vi) regular and continuous training; (vii)
efficient systems of communication; and (viii) flexibility to allow the national extension system to evolve
so as to be open to substitution of public services by farmers' organizations and private providers. A
major objective of the new policy is to bring together limited resources (internal and external) in support
of a cost-effective national approach to providing agricultural services and to reduce over time reliance
on external funding.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 6
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES
Sector Issues
16.   Long term extension policy aims at orienting the bulk of public agricultural extension activities
towards resource poor farmners. This will be achieved by (a) concentrating public extension services in
remote and resource-poor areas; (b) allowing for flexibility in applying farner/extension staff coverage
ratios; (c) targeting participatory diagnostic work to agricultural production problems according to levels
of income and gender; (d) continuing to concentrate on technology with no/low investment; and (e)
giving priority to training of extension personnel across the board in gender issues and in identification of
production problems by different social groups. The project includes measures and pilot programs
(Annex 2, par. 8) to support alternative modes of extension delivery for the relatively advanced groups.
17.   The project would support establishing/strengthening professional associations of primarily
market oriented producers. At village level, larger and medium-scale farmers and associations of
producers of "cash-crops" will be encouraged to obtain specialized advice at a higher level than the AVZ,
and to purchase advisory services from individual professional agronomists or consulting finns.
Gradually such farmers, whether individuals or companies, will graduate from being part of the contact
groups of the PNVA and will receive one-on-one advice from subject matter specialists or will buy
advisory services from private enterprise, who will be encouraged to run their own extension services, to
support sale of inputs and/or producers outgrowers, whether in cropping or livestock. The initiative will
build on the collaboration agreements being developed with private companies and will use the SOASP
staff in facilitating the establishment of Professional Associations. Funds are provided for a pilot
initiative to assist one or two professional associations (such as coffee or potato producers) in improving
their organization and management and also to explore ways for the Associations to contract more
advanced research and extension support.
18.   Improving services to women farmers - A major emphasis will be made to tailoring extension
messages to the needs of women farmers, since they account for the largest share of food-crop
production. Objectives include increasing the participation of women in regular meetings with field staff
(from 35% to 50% over 4 years). A pilot component under the project envisages the recruitment under
contract of 200 female extension staff. Integration of the female food nutrition staff, employed
previously by the Food Security project and mobilization of female community development staff would
result in a four-fold increase in the number of female staff at the field level.
19.   A grant scheme to finance agricultural research activities on a competitive basis - The bulk of
the support envisaged for the agricultural research program will be extended to IRAD by the African
Development Fund, under separate parallel financial arrangements. This includes the bulk of IRAD's
rehabilitation requirements, staff training, and a significant amount to cover the cost of on-station
research work. The project includes a competitive grant scheme to support specific research activities
over and above funds included in the ADF-financed IRAD program. The competitive grant will support
additional on-station or on-farm research activities concerned with themes identified as a result of
participatory diagnostic work with farmers at field level. Access to this grant will be open to all
interested research outfits of the region, IRAD included, which will be awarded contracts on a
competitive basis. The project also includes in-field research activities to be undertaken jointly with staff
of IRAD, which will be funded with Bank and IFAD resources. With the addition of the competitive
grant scheme to the resources made available by the ADF, there ought to be no lack of resources to
support on-station agricultural research activities during the next four years.
20.   Availability of good quality planting material- the project will address this matter with a three
prong strategy: (a) assisting the MINAGRI to formulate rules and regulations regarding seed production



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 7
Cameroon: Agrcultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
and trade; (b) provide resources to finance an adequate initial production by research institutions of base
seeds of crop varieties demanded by resource poor farmers, and of disease free planting material of root
crops, (c) encourage small farmers group multiplication of good quality improved varieties of seed and
disease free planting material, and (d) encourage the activities of private enterprise in seed and breeding
stock production and distribution.
21.   Availability of inputs through improved collaboration between Private and Public Sectors -The
project will contribute to the transfer of input distribution and marketing activities previously assured by
parastatals or projects through closer collaboration with the private sector. A successful start has already
been made under a series of agreements linking private sector input supply merchants and exporters with
farmers' groups and associations and credit institutions.  This has been through the PNVA unit
responsible for links with the private sector and support for farmers' associations. The development of
national farmers' unions and federations of farmers' associations will be pursued.
22.   Improvements in productivity of public sector staff- Since 1993 the real level of civil servants'
salaries has fallen by 70%. To counter the effects of this and improve morale and productivity, efforts
were made under the previous project to ensure joint programming of field visits, supervision and training
involving farmers, front line staff and supervisors. As a result, more than 2,000 employees of the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Livestock and IRAD have clearly defined work programs and
objectives. For many this has provided a new sense of purpose. Support for efforts to broaden these
activities beyond the extension services will continue. In addition an incentive scheme has been
introduced whereby the Ministry awards special recognition to staff who have performed especially well
at the end of each year. Private partners working with PNVA have proposed similar awards schemes.
Only about 25% of Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock staff will be directly involved in activities
covered by the project. Both Ministries need to define the role of more than 4,000 remaining staff.
Maintaining these staff on the Government payroll has important implications for sustainability of local
funding for the sector. Government will carry out before December 31, 2000 an operational audit of the
Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock to define the essential roles for them and to determine the optimal
numbers of staff required by the rural Ministries. The audit will include a human resource study. The
conclusions of this study should be reviewed during the project Mid-tern Review and would provide a
basis for future support to the Government in efforts to rationalize the overall public service
establishment. Following the operational audit, proposals will be made to retain only those staff required
to fulfill this new mandate. The operational audit will be carried out by Presidential Secretariat for
Administrative Reform (SPRA) and undertaken in collaboration with the Secretaries General of
MINAGRI and MINEPIA.
23.   Improved use of domestic funding to meet the operating costs of agricultural extension and
research - The decentralized funding system set up for the management of external funds under the
previous project has demonstrated that greater decentralization of financial responsibility can result in
increased effectiveness in the use of public funds, provided adequate accounting reporting and auditing is
applied. Financial control procedures emulating the system adopted for external funding will be
developed for local funding during this next phase and should be in place by June 30, 2000 (par. 80).
Concurrently, the shortcomings in financial management by provincial staff of the PNVA will be
remedied, through better training of accounting officers. Following CPPR reviews and encouragement
from Bank disbursement staff, the Government is improving staffing of the CAA, to better service the
many international financed projects the flow of funds of which they handle centrally.
24.   Coordination of donor support for rural development activities- The Government of Cameroon
has undertaken over the past two years a series of workshops on regional priority setting for the rural
sector. Based on the priorities identified, the Government has prepared a draft policy statement



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 8
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
(September 1997) in which it confirms that agricultural technology transfer is a priority. The Bank
envisages to do a review of rural sector strategy in FY99 and prepare a more detailed, specific and
focused discussion of rural sector priorities and interventions, and public expenditure and sector
investment programming than has been possible with limited resources over past years. Within the
project itself, funds have been earmarked to enable the Ministry of Agriculture to refine its strategy and
develop an Action Plan for specific future investment projects, addressing complementary rural
development priorities. The joint financing of this program by three major multilateral aid agencies
(IDA, AfDB, and IFAD) will provide necessary critical mass and support to Government efforts to
encourage other donors to support the strategic objectives of the agricultural services strategy.
25.   Internal and external monitoring and evaluation - these activities will be further developed by
the project with particular attention to (a) improving the internal management information system with
regard to reporting on current activities and to accounting, (b) getting feedback from beneficiaries with
respect to the impact of the action taken, in time to take corrective measures. Specific technology
adoption case studies will be carried out, with a view to understanding the reasons for adoption/rejection,
the way in which farmers tend to adapt innovations in their own environment, and the impact of adoption
on the farming system and the economy of the households; and (c) assessing the quantitative impact of
extension. A base line survey of a limited scope will be carried out in 1998 and repeated every two years,
with a view to monitor the overall impact of the project on agricultural production in Cameroon.
Strategic Choices
26.    A number of strategic choices have been made in project design:
a) The Government of Cameroon, while continuing to support a primarily public sector extension
service, has declared its readiness to support the assumption of extension activities by farmers'
groups and associations and increased linkages with private sector partners. The project will support
these initiatives and other pilots aimed at identifyingcost-effective alternatives for the provision of
advisory services, requiring less dependency upon public funding. Alternative experiences from
other countries will be reviewed through study visits and the development of follow-up pilots.
b) In line with the general objective of contributing to the institutional development process in
Cameroon, the project supports the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and is fully integrated in
the structure of the Administration at central and field level for operational planning and management
purposes. The decentralization process initiated under the PNVA will be strengthened. During this
next phase, and pending reform of the government budget release system, and of the introduction of
improved accounting, auditing and financial reporting procedures, however, the financial flows will
follow a parallel and separate channel, the effectiveness of which has been proven by the first PNVA
loan. Assistance to the Ministry to streamline its procedures in close coordination with the Ministry
of Finance has been included in the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 9
Cameroon: Agricuftural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
C. Project Description Summary
PROJECT COMPONENTS
(see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Cost incl.  % of   IDA      % of
Component                       Category   contingen-  total  financ-    IDA
cies             ing    financing
(US$M)          (US$M)
Agricultural extension - (i) transfer of
environmentally sustainable improved technology,
with particular emphasis on women farmers; (ii)  Institution
making available improved seeds; (iii) increasing  buildn      26.1     57      9.4       62
use of mass media; and (iv) monitoring progress of building
extension
Agricultural research - (i) strengthening IRAD's
agricultural research services; (ii) supporting
selective priority on-station research; (iii) training
IRAD research and management staff; (iv)         Institution
supporting research/extension linkages; (v)     building       14.6     32      1.0        7
improving the quality and efficiency of research
through a demand-driven, competitive grant
scheme.
Training and Human Resources Development -
supporting in-service training and a pilot project to   Institution  3.9  8     3.5       23
rehabilitate two/three agricultural colleges.    building
Farmer Organization Support and Private
Sector Linkages - developing commercial linkages
between farmers' groups and agricultural merchants  Institution  0.5     1      0.4        3
and suppliers, NGOs and other partners to improve   building
input supply and marketing of produce.
Village-based participative community
development pilot - testing an approach providing
villages a platform to (i) determine rural
development priorities; (ii) implement action plans;  Institution  0.4   1      0.3        2
and (iii) obtain the assistance needed from various    building
service providers (including extension)
Project impact evaluation
and studies - external evaluation of project impact  Institution  0.6    1      0.5        3
and funding studies for an action plan for rural building
development investments
TOTAL                          _                       46.1      100    15.1       100



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 10
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
KEY POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT
27.    The project supports the institutional reform process of the Ministry of Agriculture, modifies its
approach towards different categories of farmers and thus contributes to (a) promote the conditions for
lowering the burden on public finances of technology generation and transfer, and (b) better coordinate
agricultural production and poverty alleviation policies. Improvements in planning, financing, and
implementation of agricultural extension and research have been illustrated above (par. 16-26). Longer
term financial sustainability would be enhanced by the gradual reduction of unproductive staff in the
Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock, as the role of these Ministries is more clearly defined.
BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION
28.    Up to 30%  of Cameroon's farmers in each of its 10 provinces will be targeted as direct
beneficiaries of the project. Women farmers, who represent more than half of the farming population,
and over 80% of the food crop producers, will be targeted by special efforts to identify technology
relevant to their needs during on-farm diagnosis and by associating a larger proportion of women in
contact groups meeting with front line staff. The poorest rural populations will be targeted by ensuring
that extension services are available in the remotest areas of the country.
29.    Primary benefits
-  with regard to impact on growth: the project will build on successful initiatives started under the
previous National Agricultural Extension and Training project and contribute to increase agricultural
productivity and output and thereby foster agricultural development and increase rural incomes
directly for up to thirty per cent of the country's farmers;
-  with regard to impact on income distribution: rural poverty will be reduced, household food security
and nutrition levels will improve through particular emphasis given under the project to: (a) the
identification of the production problems specific to the poor sections of the rural community, and
(b) tailoring technology transfer activities to the particular requirements of women farmers who
produce the bulk of Cameroon food crops. The project will fund services in all areas of the country
but will make special efforts to cover particularly remote areas, where some of the poorest tranches
of the population reside;
* the assets of the Government institution specializing in agricultural research will be rehabilitated.
30.    Other Benefits
*  The rationalization of the activities and staff of multiple institutions and projects in the rural areas
will lead to better use of scarce public resources and foster the process of administrative reform;
*  More experience with decentralization of field services management will be acquired;
*  The professional level of more than 2,500 staff will improve from in-service training;
*  Capacity for carrying out demand-driven agricultural research will be established;
*  Efficiency of research activities will improve through competition for funds by research outfits;
*  More women will be able to play a role in agricultural extension service as a result of increased
participation by women farmers in extension contact groups and increased recruitment of female
extension staff;
*  Farmers' groups will be formed eventually developing into professional associations capable of
procuring up-to-date agricultural production know how on a financially viable basis;



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 11
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
*  Increased availability of good quality seeds of improved varieties, of disease-free planting material of
roots and tubers, and of breeding stock;
*  Positive impact on soil fertility, conservation and water management, through the adoption of soil
conservation and crop rotation techniques;
*  Improved input supply and commercial marketing of farm produce will be achieved through
intensification of contacts between farmers' groups and associations and private sector agricultural
merchants, input suppliers and traders;
*  the development of a market for private agricultural advisory services, through encouraging larger
farrners, the associations of market oriented producers, and companies to purchase advisory services
from private professionals, rather than rely on Government extension workers. Concurrently, a start
will be made on rehabilitating training facilities for agricultural technicians for basic, in-service
training, and refresher (keeping abreast of development) courses.
INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
31.   Project oversight is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. The coordination of the
project components (Agricultural Extension, Training and Human Resource Development, Farmer
Organization Support and private Sector Linkages, Village-based participative community development,
internal Monitoring and Evaluation of crop, livestock and fisheries extension, financial management and
control) will be the responsibility of the Coordinator of National Agricultural Extension Program. The
national coordinator will be appointed by the Minister for Agriculture. Among other things, he will act
as secretary for the competitive research grant sub-component. Given the important management role
played by the national coordinator, the candidate for this post will possess qualifications and experience
which are acceptable to IFAD and IDA. A deputy coordinator has been nominated by the MINEPIA to
ensure close collaboration with this Ministry. Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock staff will be
redeployed in accordance with the September 1997 Agreement signed between the two Ministries. IRAD
will be responsible for the three agricultural research sub-components funded by the African
Development Bank, concerned with the rehabilitation of IRAD's research structure, on-station research
and training of IRAD staff. The Division of Studies and Projects (DEPA) will be responsible for
coordinating external Monitoring and Evaluation and for the coordination of major studies.
32.    The Agricultural Extension component represents a continuation of support for the
Government's national agricultural extension policy started under the ongoing National Agricultural
Extension and Training project (Ln. 3185-CM). (see par. 47 below). The role of the National
Agricultural Extension Program is to ensure that advisory services reach as many livestock, fish and crop
farmers as possible, giving priority to direct services to small farmers and food crop producers. The
program uses an approach which highlights participation among extension staff, researchers and farmers
in on-farm diagnosis and adaptive research and regular training of field staff and farmers. The main tools
include work programming, regular training, use of loose contact groups made up of farmers sharing
similar interests, individual on-farm demonstration plots and on-farm trials with research and extension
staff. To date agricultural advisory service delivery has primarily been based on the use of public staff
providing free services to all types of farmers. While aiming to maintain public funding of extension as
well as the recent improvements in the quality of the management of the public extension service, the
project will support pilot initiatives whereby the services of private organizations active in extension such
as farners' organizations and NGOs will be sub-contracted (Annex 2 par. 8). In addition, a pilot
operation to assist village communities in identifying rural development priorities and implementing
action plans will be organized (Annex 2 par. 33-38). One of the objectives of this pilot is to increase
farmers' say over the management and organization of extension.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 12
Cameroon: Agrcultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
33.   While awaiting the results of the pilots mentioned in the preceding paragraph, some 1,700 multi-
disciplinary field agents, backed by about 350 supervisory staff, 250 subject matter specialists, and over
200 research staff will provide advisory services to farmers at all levels of technical advancement. The
zonal extension worker (AVZ) will continue as the link pin between farmers and herders and sources of
technology and information. Each AVZ will cover between 500 and 1,000 farm families (an average of
800 nationally), according to population density and the state of communications and rural roads.
Coverage is expected to be lower in remote areas and will represent increased average costs for targeting
remote and poor families. For the majority of smallholder farmers, face-to-face contact will be through
regular meetings between the AVZ and contact groups. These will be organized in such a way as to
distinguish groups of farmers belonging to different social strata and taking gender into account. Larger
farmers and planters will receive technical advice from subject matter specialists on the basis of flexible
timetables defined in joint consultation between SMS and farmners. They will be gradually encouraged to
obtain farm specific demonstration and technical advice from private technicians on a commercial basis.
Market oriented small farmers and cash crop producers will be encouraged to join associations and to
purchase specialized technical advice on similar arrangements.  Identification and diagnosis of
production- and post-harvest-related problems will be undertaken jointly by extension and research staff
with farmers throughout the year, on the basis of work programs defined under contracts prepared at
provincial levels. The number offemale extension staff will be increased by recruitment of 200 such
staff on renewable contracts on a pilot basis. Some 52 farmers' organization specialists (SOASPs),
operating at the regional level, under supervision from staff at provincial and central level will interact
between farmers organizations, agricultural merchants and suppliers and NGOs to ensure reliable flow of
information of market opportunities and to "broker" agreements between the national extension services
and the services of private sector partners. They will be assisted by a post-harvest/crop processing
subject matter specialist posted initially at provincial level. An economist financial analyst to be posted
in the M&E unit will assist with market survey and financial analysis of proposed investments which will
be sub-contracted to private individuals and NGOs whenever appropriate. An environmental subject
matter specialist in each province has been appointed to ensure consistency between technical
recommendations and environmental sustainability. Close linkages with agricultural research staff will
be ensured through renewable contracts agreed between provincial agricultural research and extension
staff and funded by the project, following transmittal of a request from the provincial supervisor to the
project coordination office.
34.   The program will cover all ten provinces of Cameroon, an increase over the six provinces
included originally under the previous project. The next phase of funding in support of agricultural
extension will concentrate on improving the quality and increasing coverage of the services. In
particular, greater attention will be paid to animal husbandry andfisheries extension. Participation by
farmers in programming agricultural extension and research will be intensified by continued emphasis on
on-farn diagnosis by extension and researchers. Training in diagnosis techniques will remain a priority.
The present practice will be complemented by introducing a simple method to assess the different
problems facing resource poor farmers and women food crop producers, forming separate contact groups
of these farmers when required, and to ensure that the requirements of those farners are included in the
work plans. To complement on-farm diagnosis, two further approaches will be developed to resolve
problems, whose solution cannot necessarily be found on-farm. The first will be to continue support for
solutions to agricultural input delivery and marketing problems being developed in conjunction with the
private sector, farmers' associations with staff from the Farmer Organizations and Links with the Private
Sector Support unit (SOASPs). The second will be to initiate a pilot in support of village-level
community development, based on successful experience of such an approach elsewhere in the region.
The use of mass media will be strengthened to complement the participatory approach to extension. Seed
production and multiplication will continue to receive support. In particular, national seeds legislation
will be finalized, and women's groups and small scale individual farmners will be encouraged to multiply



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 13
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
improved seeds and breeding stock. In order to maintain the new levels of commitment among extension
staff, an award system based on merit will be introduced for extension and research staff. Private sector
partners have expressed willingness to institute a similar system.
35.   The project provides resources to encourage testing alternative technology delivery systems on a
pilot basis. Details of how these pilots will be implemented are provided in par. 8 of Annex 2 below.
Study tours for representatives of the public and private sectors will be organized to countries beyond the
Africa Region to compare experiences which could be of relevance to Cameroon. Certain extension
activities, such as training, extension, monitoring and evaluation, on-farm trials, could be sub-contracted
to NGOs, private companies or training institutes, which demonstrate necessary capability and who agree
to respect the principles of the national extension policy. Funds are included under the project to allow
for subcontracting such selected extension activities to thirdparties.
36.   Under the Research component, the African Development Bank will fund three sub-
components in direct support of the National Agricultural Research Institute for Development (IRAD)
over the next five years. These sub-components include rehabilitation of the physical infrastructure of
selected IRAD stations, purchase of equipment, provision of technical assistance, documentation and
operating costs of research staff; funding of demand-driven research programs; and local and overseas
training of IRAD research staff. Technical and institutional responsibility for implementation of these
sub-components will be with the Director General of IRAD, a relatively young institution created in
March 1996, following the fusion of separate research institutes for agronomy and livestock research.
Under a fourth sub-component research and extension activities will be funded by the PNVA by way of
contracts drawn up between the PNVA provincial supervisors and the research stations/centers,
corresponding to those provinces. The services to be provided under these contracts include regular
training by research staff of subject matter specialists on techniques, identified as priority by farmers;
tests and trials in farmers' fields of potential solutions to priority problems identified during on-farm
diagnosis; and the costs for researchers involved in carrying out on-farm diagnosis with extension staff
and farmers. Under a fifth sub-component a competitive grant for on-station research on themes
identified by the participatory diagnostic work will be established with IFAD funding. Access to this
grant will be available to public and private research outfits on a competitive basis. Management of the
grant will be entrusted to a eight-member Committee of representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Ministry of Livestock, IRAD, the University of Dschang, AGROCOM, the Federation of Cameroon
farmers, a representative of a women's' farming group and a representative of a small farmers'
associations (such as FENAPAC) (Annex 2 par. 23).
37.   The Training and Resource Management component will be the responsibility of a Head of
Unit under the national PNVA coordinator, with representation in each of the 10 provinces. Support will
be provided for training for field level staff, subject matter specialists and researchers. Funding is
provided for in-country and regional workshops. Training in on-farm diagnosis remains a priority so as
to ensure that extension and research messages are adapted to the need of farmers having different socio-
economic characteristics. The training program on participatory diagnosis will be expanded and
complemented to enable all concerned staff to fully appreciate the impact of social stratification and
gender issues in agricultural production problem identification. To support the policy objective of
developing an effective supply of technological advisory services by the private sector, a pilot initiative
will be funded to rehabilitate two or three agricultural colleges for training of agricultural and livestock
technicians. This initiative will be fully defined following a study, to be carried out by consultants under
the supervision of the DEPA, MINAGRI in collaboration with the DEC, MINEPIA, of supply and
demand for such technicians within both the private and public sectors, to ensure long term availability of
trained technical staff. This study will develop quantitative data following an FAO Study of the Reform



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 14
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
of Agricultural Teaching and Training'. The national project Coordinator's office will liaise closely with
Secretary General of MINAGRI and the DEPA and DEC on the proposed follow-up and rehabilitation
work, which is not expected to begin before the third year of the project.
38.   Private sector agricultural technicians would be encouraged to join technology update courses at
the colleges, and to participate in workshops designed to keep the Government technical staff abreast
with technology development. Local and overseas training will be programmed according to a training
plan, agreed annually (1998 program annexed to the project implementation manual). In addition to in-
service training objectives for staff, resources under this component are included for developing a
strategy for basic training of agricultural technicians.
39.   The Farmer Organization Support and Private Sector Linkages component will support
efforts of the SOASP unit of PNVA to develop contractual, formal and informal contacts between farmer
associations and groups and private sector suppliers of agricultural inputs, agricultural merchants,
purchasers of agricultural products. Funding will be made available by the PNVA to improve
communications between regional and provincial level specialists in farmers' associations and private
sector linkages (SOASP), to fund training of farmer group representatives and enable group
representatives to undertake study visits both within and outside Cameroon.
40.   The Village-based participative community development pilot will be carried out under the
overall coordination of the national PNVA unit by joint teams of staff from the Extension Service and the
Community Development Department. At the provincial level, the Provincial Extension Coordinator will
have the end-responsibility for the pilot operation and will actively involve a wide range of organizations
and individuals, including local government, other rural services - such as health, education,
infrastructure, etc. - NGOs, and any other organizations active in rural development. The results of this
pilot will be monitored and evaluated, in collaboration with the DEC of MINEPIA, by the Ministry's
Agricultural Projects and Studies Directorate (DEPA), which will be responsible for identifying impact
indicators, carrying out a base-line survey, and measuring progress on the impact indicators. The pilot
operation will be implemented with a view to the rapid expansion of the approach throughout the country.
One of the elements to be examined will be the need for the creation of a rural development fund,
possibly as a self-standing externally financed project. IFAD has expressed interest in funding a possible
follow-up project, based on the experience of the pilot.
41.   Project impact evaluation and studies component. Progress in achieving project objectives
will be evaluated by: (a) the increase in the numbers of farmers, particularly women, receiving advisory
services; (b) the level of adoption of new technical messages; (c) the impact of these technical messages
on farm incomes; and (d) the number of market oriented farmers groups successfully developed. The
Directorate for Agricultural Projects and Studies (DEPA) will be responsible for externalmonitoring and
evaluation of project impact. The DEPA, in collaboration with the DEC/MINEPIA, will work closely
with the Monitoring and Evaluation staff of the PNVA national coordination unit, who are responsible for
monitoring the internal progress of the extension and research programs on the ground. A single
monitoring and evaluation system will monitor indicators of performance for both research and extension
services. This system will be based on two levels. An internal monitoring system based on information
collected during daily farm visits by the front level staff by which the impact of the extension and
research services will be measured against objectives and indicators agreed with supervisors. Rates of
adoption of technical messages will be the main measure of impact of the extension and research
services. The second level would involve: (a) a series of annual in-depth technology adoption/rejection
Reforme de l'Enseignement et de la Formation Agricole et Rurale - Michel Gineste FAOIDEPA Janvier 1998



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 15
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
case studies based on limited samples; (b) a rural household survey of about 2,000 households to be
undertaken in the second and fourth year with the same methodology as the baseline survey carried out in
1998, to acquire an insight on the overall impact of the project on production, and (c) an external
beneficiary assessment to be carried out in the first and third year of the project. The M&E component
includes the appointment of an economist/financial analyst who will be responsible for supervising the
work done at SMS level to check the financial viability of the technical packages and to assist the SOAPS
staff and the SMS post harvest/processing/marketing technologies in assessing investment proposal and
contracting specific studies as required in their activities. Studies to be carried out under this component
in support of an Action Plan to implement the Government's new rural development strategy will be
coordinated by the DEPA, in collaboration with the DEC.
42.   The DEPA and DEC will coordinate preparation of the project's Mid-term Review, which should
be carried out before March 31, 2001 and should include, among other things, (i) an evaluation of the
impact of the pilot project experiences and proposals for future development; (ii) an evaluation of the
operation of the financial management system; (iii) an action plan for implementingthe conclusions of
the human resource study determining the future size and deployment of the staff of the rural Ministries;
and (iv) implement the rural sector development strategy and action plan.
43.   Implementation Period - The project will fund the next four-year investment period in support of
the national extension and research programs. Starting after credit effectiveness during the second
semester of 1998, funding provided jointly by the Cameroon Government, IFAD, AfDB and IDA is
sufficient to meet the program needs for extension and research activities in Cameroon's 10 provinces
until June 2003. During the third year of the project, an evaluation of impact will be undertaken and
preparation work on the next phase of external funding in support of the national programs will be
defined.
D. Project rationale
PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION
44.   Stand-alone project with independent management unit - Rejected because of:  (a)
incompatibility with Government institutional development objectives, the implicit longer terrn goal being
the reorganization of the administration of all Government services to the rural world; (b) sustainability
problems on past experience with this approach; and (c) the success of the previous project which has
provided support to the regular services of the Ministry of Agriculture.
45.   Private versus Public Extension Services - Extension for small-scale farmers will continue to be
financed with public funds and most of the small scale farmers will continue to receive extension advice
through the (public) PNVA. However, the project will provide a platform for experimenting with publicly
financed provision of extension for small-scale farmers through other organizations than the public
extension service. With regard to large scale commercial farmers, the project is designed to experiment -
as an integral part of the Cameroonian Unified Extension approach - with privately funded extension,
provided through farmers' organizations or other private practitioners of agricultural advisory services.
These private extension initiatives will complement the role of the public service to ensure that
information about new technology developments are made available to all farmers and to private
practitioners willing to keep abreast of developments. To clarify the thinking on this issue, study tours to
other countries outside the Region will be organized.
46.   Extension Project versus Rural Finance or Rural Infrastructure Projects - While rural
financial services and rural infrastructure have been identified by rural communities as top priorities for



Project Apprisal Document                                                                         Page 16
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
rural development, along with technology generation and transfer, these are being tackled partially
through Bank and other donor projects and more work is required to clarify the policy environment
especially for rural finances. Efforts to strengthen the national agricultural advisory services have shown
a sound track record to date, justifying continued support by the Bank and IFAD, while project
preparation continues in support of rural finance and rural infrastructure.
MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Ratings
Sector issue                                    Project                            Bank-financed projects
only
Bank-financed                                                                                Implemen-    Devt.
tation    objectives
progress
Support of agricultural research    National Agricultural Research Project (in. 2766-CM - closed  S          S
through physical infrastructure  1993)
and equipment investments
Support for national cocoa export  Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 2912-CM - closed 1995)      U           U
production
Privatization of veterinary    Livestock Sector Development Project (Ln. 3014-CM - closed in     U           U
services, livestock extension and   June, 1996)
support for herders' associations
Rapid alert system, nutrition  Food Security Project (Ln. 3388-CM - three components are still   U           U
training; rural credit; rural market  effective)
construction and price
information diffusion
Implementation of a cost effective  National Agricultural Extension and Training Project (Ln. 3185-  S       S
national agricultural extension  CM - closing date dec. 31, 1998)
strategy
Other development agencies
Rural development              Northwest Rural Development Project - IFAD funded - subject to
suspension of disbursements since early 1990s.      _
Rural development              South West Development Agency (SOWEDA) - AfBD funded
project in South West project - since 1991
Poverty alleviation and WID    Project for Poverty Alleviation and Actions in Support of Women
AfDB project appraised -in Oct. 1997 for the Far North Province
IPM for cassava                Ecologically sustainable plant protection project (ESCAPP)
funded by USAID till 1995 in SW province. IFAD considering
follow-up.
Root and tuber food crop problem   Roots and Tubers Research project (ROTREP) - funded by
solving                        USAID till 1995 in South West. Bio-technology laboratory
constructed.
Support for rural organizations,    Ddveloppement Paysannal et gestion du Terroir (DPGT) -
reduction of cotton handling   ongoing CFD funded project in the north in colfaboration with
costs, soil fertility and gestion du   SODECOTON
terroir
Strengthening farmer associations  Projet d'Appui aux StratMgles Paysannes et a la
professionalisation de IAgrlculture - ongoing CFD funded in
support of farmer associations in marketing, input supply and agro-
______ _____ _____ ____  processing  in the South.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (highly satisfactory), S (satisfactory), U (unsatisfactory), HU (highly unsatisfactory)



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 17
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
Experience of the previous project (Ln. 3185-CM)
47.   The overall objective of the National Agricultural Extension and Training Project (Ln. 3185-CM)
was to assist the Government to implement a national agricultural extension strategy. The project's
medium term objective was to introduce a unified extension system in certain areas of the country, which
would rationalize existing overlapping provincial services. The project'spriority objective was identified
as increasing farmer productivity by (i) strengthening operational institutions and establishing systems for
managing the extension services; and (ii) providing training to facilitate improved delivery of the
services. Special attention was to be given to the needs of women farmers under the project.
48.   The first years of project implementation were characterized by weak management, high unit cost
and non-performance of the research component. Poor performnance was attributed also to the weakness
of the macro-economic environment, falling world prices of Cameroon exports, non-availability of
imports, following State withdrawal and frequent suspension of World Bank disbursement due to non-
payment of arrears. Other problems included the tendency to impose extension themes as opposed to
responding to farmers' requests for advice, resulting in low adoption rates and lower outreach to women
farmers than targeted until 1997. Analysis of slow adoption of new techniques during farm-level
supervision revealed the need for the improvement of the capacity of research and extension staff to listen
to farmers as a basis for identifying research and extension priorities. The latter shortcoming was
addressed through training in farming systems diagnosis for over 2,000 staff in the latter stages of the
project. More recently the participatory diagnostic methodology introduced for identifying farmers
priority needs in technology transfer has brought about a change in the PNVA programming of work, in
farmer-extension worker relationships and in the morale and motivation of the AVZ and SMS staff in
many areas. A beginning was made in associating the staff of the new agriculture research institute
(IRAD) to join the extension staff in the field to participate in continuous diagnostic work at field level.
This participatory diagnostic system has proved to be highly effective and will be maintained. By the end
of 1997, an efficient and well-managed extension service had been established.
49.   On balance, considerable progress was made in achieving the project objectives. The Ministry of
Agriculture defined a clear agricultural extension policy, based on the lessons learned under the project
and the pilot, which preceded it. Over 150,000 farm families were receiving support from the project by
1997, still some way from the full coverage intended under the Ministry of Agriculture's new extension
policy but nonetheless a major achievement. Adoption rates initially varied widely and raised questions
about the relevance of selected extension messages. A major training program in on-farm diagnosis was
adopted to address this issue. A 1995 impact study concluded that more than 80% of farmers are aware
of the existence of extension staff in the areas where the PNVA is active. Almost 60% of farmers
covered by that study declared that they no longer have to buy food crops for household consumption,
since they now produce one or more of such crops themselves. Yield increases of more than 20% were
registered by almost 70% of farmers belonging to extension contact groups. A Beneficiary Assessment in
July 1997 established that 46% of farmers had received advice in one form or another from PNVA, and
all but 6% were aware of PNVA's existence. Advice from PNVA is the principal source of technical
infornation for almost 50% of farmers and almost 60% consider the service as the most important source
of information in the rural areas. Two-thirds of all new techniques adopted by farmers resulted in
production increases varying from 10% to more than 50% for the major crops in each of the four
provinces surveyed (maize, groundnuts, plantain bananas, soya, cassava, potatoes, niebe beans, millet,
sorghum, palm oil and vegetables). Most farmers said that before PNVA they relied previously on
traditional practices and received no alternative advisory services from other sources. Farmers in more
remote areas had rarely, if ever, received technical advisory services.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 18
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
50.   Progress has been made in human resource management, regular training is undertaken, there has
been improvements recently in research and extension linkages and some decentralization of financial
and administration management. Delays in procurement have seriously affected the rate at which it has
been possible to provide vehicles and motorcycles to all staff. An extension management and training
system has been successfully introduced to all ten Provinces. Regular on-the-job training has made the
Ministry of Agriculture second only to primary and secondary education in terms of the number of
training sessions organized each year. With over 2,000 staff at central and field level, the PNVA
represents an important structure within the Ministry of Agriculture, working with more than 25% of the
Ministry's full establishment. The success of the management and training system has had important
secondary effects on the discussions on civil service reform.
51.   In response to a growing demand for services which go beyond traditional agricultural extension
and technology transfer, the PNVA has established a Unit, which is responsible for strengthening ties
with the private sector and providing support to farmers' associations. This unit has had notable success
since 1996 in brokering agreements with private companies and NGOs to improve input availability and
marketing services to producers. Agreements have been signed with organizations such as Pelenguet
(hybrid maize seed), Pamol (oil palm seedlings), Rhone Poulenc (agro-chemicals), Hydrochem
(fertilizers), CDD de Maroua-Mokolo (NGO) defining collaboration arrangements between these
suppliers and the extension and research services. Sales for the first two companies have increased
exponentially. A regional workshop in early 1998 bringing together representatives of 16 private
companies, 11 farmers' associations and representatives from Madagascar, Guinea and Chad set the basis
for intensifying this initiative over the coming years.
LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS PROJECTS AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN
Lesson 1. Stand-alone project management structures rarely ensure sustainable institution building. The
new project is designed to support IRAD and MINAGRI existing central and field structures, intended to
ensure a permanent agricultural advisory service, capable of continuing, when external funding is no
longer available.
Lesson 2. Many Bank-funded projects have concentrated on capital-intensive investments and achieved
few tangible results among beneficiaries on the ground. This project is field-oriented and support is
concentrated on ensuring that more than 2,000 front line staff, researchers and subject matter specialists
are provided with the means (training, transportation, supervision and light equipment) to respond
directly to demand from their farmer clients.
Lesson 3. Projects with a high degree of local participation in preparation have resulted in better results.
The project and the national extension program has been fully designed by a national team, under Bank
staff supervision but with no external technical assistance.
Lesson 4. Decentralization of many decisions and activities to the provinces and independent financial
and personnel management services have been responsible for improved efficiency under previous
projects. Strengthening of these features has been included in the project design.
Lesson 5. Experience with the ongoing extension project and projects elsewhere has underlined the
importance of close contacts between research and extension, implication of the private sector, regular
and continuous training, close participation of farmers and clear work programming. These are building
blocks of the new project.
Lesson 6. The IBRD-funded Research project experience underscored the importance of designing a
research apparatus taking account of the recurrent cost burden on the State. Strong decentralization,
client participation in research and application of private sector principles were recommended, which
have been reflected in new project design.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 19
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP
i)   Ministry of Finance doubled recurrent budgets for agricultural field staff to >$2 million in 1997/98
budget to demonstrate its commitment to the project and tripled the investment budget to $1
million, over levels two years ago.
ii)  The ongoing project is often quoted (cf. President's 1997 New Year speech) as one of the most
successful examples of internationally supported development initiatives currently being
undertaken by the government. Ministers for Scientific Research and Agriculture participate
regularly and in person at functions organized by the program (launch workshops, training
workshops, meetings with private sector partners, awards to best extension and supervisory staff).
iii) The Ministry of Agriculture considers the project as the most important ongoing development
operation it is currently managing. Its recent policy statement on agricultural extension confirms
this.
iv)  Memoranda of Understanding have been signed between the Ministry of Agriculture and (a) the
Ministry of Livestock and (b) IRAD clarifying details of how activities will be coordinated.
v)   Integration under the PNVA structure of parallel services within the Ministry of Agriculture (seeds
and crop protection) has begun.
VALUE-ADDED OF BANK SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT
i)   Project staff have attended regional workshops elsewhere in Africa facilitated by Bank staff, where
they have drawn on agricultural extension experience from elsewhere in the region. Study visits to
other countries where Bank-supported experience is proving positive and will continue.
ii)   Change in Bank supervision techniques under the ongoing project (Ln. 3185-CM), giving priority
to contact with farmers and other beneficiaries has served to demonstrate the value of these
contacts as a means for assessing the efficiency of the service and identifying priority areas for
improvement. Traditional techniques of supervision as a control and inspection function are giving
way to supervision as a support function.
iii) Coordination between the Bank and cofinanciers the African Development Bank and the
International Fund for Agricultural Development will help support Government in its efforts to
encourage other donors to follow its national strategy for agricultural research and extension and to
ensure optimum use of scarce external resources for agricultural development.
iv)  As a complement to the structural adjustment dialogue, the Presidential Secretariat for Civil
Reform is using the PNVA management structure and system as the basis for the new organogram
being prepared for an eventual new Ministry of Rural Development.
52.   Extension and research being long term activities, it is expected that continued support by the
Bank may be needed after the present phase. This support will be considered based on the achievement
of satisfactory progress towards the program's longer term objectives. In particular reform of the
Government's procedures related to the release of funds allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture under
the recurrent budget would need to have been improved and the role of the rural development Ministries
clarified and staff resources brought to the required size to ensure efficient operation of field services
through the application of the similar principles of control as currently applied to external sources of
funding.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 20
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
E. Summary Project Analysis
(Detailed assessments are in the project file (see Annex 8)
ECONOMIC
(supported by Annex 4): Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV = US$27 million; IER = 41%
53.   Rationale for Public Intervention - At the present stage of economic development of Cameroon,
it is a legitimate public function to:
a) ensure that a steady flow of technological innovations becomes available to foster agricultural
production, and to improve the country comparative advantages. This requires supporting a well
founded program of agricultural research and ensuring that such program tackles the most important
problems felt by farmers on a priority basis;
b) assist the poor sections of the farming community to improve their food security and income. This
requires directly supporting the transfer of agricultural production technology to small producers,
particularly to women food crop producers; and
c) while securing that all farmers have access to public sources of information regarding technical
innovations in agriculture, encourage wealthy farmers to acquire more advanced technical advice
from private sources, promote the development of farmers' associations capable to do the same, and
provide training to private individuals wishing to supply agricultural advisory services on a
commercial basis.
54.   Certain delivery and training services (training of trainers, input supply and distribution,
demonstration of new products) can be contracted to non-public entities, such as NGOs or private
companies and this will be encouraged under the project.
55.   Appropriate Form of Public Intervention - Clear cost-effectiveness criteria have led Cameroon
to provide farmer advisory services as a public good through its Ministry of Agriculture. The fiscal
responsibility to ensure that all farmers have access to a minimum of extension advice remains with the
State. For the majority of the farmers, who are smallholder subsistence farmers, the State will also keep
implementation responsibility through the National Extension Service under the Ministry of Agriculture.
However, under this project, pilots will be launched whereby extension delivery will be sub-contracted to
private service providers. With regard to larger farmers and planters, this project will encourage the
establishment of privately funded extension organizations, operating within the overall framework of the
National Extension Strategy. Competition for research funds will improve efficiency in the agricultural
research field and also open the door for private enterprise to begin to operate in this field.
56.   Improvements in Farm Income and Productivity - Project objectives envisage an increase in net
farm incomes of 20% among farmers receiving extension services over the next four years. Examples
under the ongoing project of the impact of the adoption of simple cost-effective messages, requiring little
or no cash investment by farmers, have shown productivity and production increases of between 30 and
200% (see details in the Project Implementation Manual). Rates of adoption by contact farmers of new
technology are expected to increase from 30% currently to 80% by the end of 2002, as improved training
and mobility provide extension staff with the tools necessary to respond to farmers' needs. Extension
staff objectives will be to reach directly one third of Cameroon's 1.3 million farm families by the 4th year
of operations, up from one tenth in 1995/96. This represents a ratio of approximately 240 farmers
contacted directly by each extension agent every fortnight - or meeting 3 contact groups of 10 farmers
every day. These are within attainable limits.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 21
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
57.   Economic Rate of Return - The economic rate of return (IER) for the project, based on the
incremental value of production from farm models prepared for the three main agro-ecological zones of
Cameroon is 41%. The NPV, discounting at 10%, is US$27 million. The estimates are relatively
insensitive to changes in the number of farmers contacted by extension staff and to changes in the costs
of production. However, the IER is relatively sensitive to changes in local market prices (after taking
account of deflationary impact of increased production on local market prices) and extremely sensitive to
changes in yields and production.
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
(see Annex 5)
58.   Financial viability of the technologies transferred to project clients - The financial viability of
the technological innovations promoted by the project is a key to adoption and project success. The
profitability of adopting a number of technical packages extended by the PNVA has been tested by crop
budget and farm model analysis. The adoption of most technologies extended so far successfully do not
involve significant cash outlays and hence little risk of incurring financial losses. More complex
technologies involving market risk will be evaluated by the economist of the M&E central cell before
including them in the extension packages. SOASP agents will also be trained to the extent that they will
be able to understand when economic advice should be sought for particular initiatives, especially in
livestock. This would avoid starting relative expensive projects in wrong locations.
59.   Project Cost - Total cost of the project is estimated at US$46.1 million, of which US$29.3
million investment and US$16.8 million recurrent. The IDA Credit will contribute towards the costs of
vehicles, equipment and materials (US$2.6 million), training (US$3.8 million), the competitive research
grant scheme (US$1 million), operating costs (US$5.4 million), and studies, consultants and pilot projects
(US$2.3 million). IFAD will contribute towards the costs of civil works (US$0.7 million), motorcycles
(US$3.3 million), operating costs of motorcycles (US$3.3 million) and research/extension linkages
(US$3.3 million).
60.   Of total project costs (investment and recurrent), almost US$30 million is allocated to extension
and training activities managed by the Ministry of Agriculture. At an average of US$7.5 million
annually, this figure compares with a total budget from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of
Livestock of more than US$10 million (not including salaries) budgeted from internal resources in
support of the recurrent and investment costs of agricultural extension and related independent projects
and parastatals. As the activities of these institutions are integrated under the national extension and
research programs, so public funds will be freed to replace external funding and ensure the financial
sustainability of program activities. Incremental operating costs will be fully met by Government from
the third year of the project.
61.   The project financing plan provides for US$10 million (including taxes) from Government,
which represents 22% of the total net-of-tax costs. The balance of US$36 million would be funded
jointly between IDA, IFAD and the African Development Fund. Taxes and duties amount to US$4.3
million over 4 years.
62.   Fiscal Impact - The total annual project cost from all funding sources represents about 18% of
budgeted 1997/98 public expenditure in support of the three main agricultural sector Ministries
(Agriculture, Livestock, Environment) and less than 1% of total public expenditure for that year. It is
expected that the claim of agriculture on available Government resources will decline in course of time as
a result of the privatization of the parastatals, leaving room for larger resource allocations to priority



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 22
Cameroon: Agricultural Exdension and Research Programs Support Project
programs, while debt rescheduling would ease the Government cash flow with respect to disbursement of
funds supporting all programs.
63.    The projected total annual cost of the extension program  (investment and recurrent costs)
represents 0.4% of total agricultural GDP (not including forestry), or 4% of the incremental agricultural
GDP estimated by the national accounts forecast for the project period. Recurrent costs represent
approximately $10 per beneficiary farm family, the equivalent of about 50 kg of shelled maize.
64.   Investment in improved agricultural extension and research services is a highly productive use of
Cameroon's limited public resources. Incremental expenditure essentially provides the means for making
effective use of staff already on the Government payroll. No increase of public expenditure on salaries is
envisaged, with the exception of the incremental cost of the female extension staff, since all posts are
either filled currently or will be filled by reassignment within the public service or will use non-
government staff (NGOs, private partners, universities etc.).
TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
65.    The project is technically sound. With respect to farming, it builds on a technology delivery
system and on administrative mechanisms which have been tested and refined over the past 6 years by the
Bank-supported PNVA project. Many simple and cost-effective techniques for improving production,
productivity and post-harvest crop handling are available 'off-the-shelf' from private and public sector
sources, universities and farmers. Demonstration techniques in farmers' fields and regular training of
field staff have combined to rekindle confidence between farmers and field staff, leading to better
adoption rates of improved practices. In 1997, approximately 130 new technical messages were tried by
about 84,000 farmers in their own fields, with improvements in yields between traditional techniques and
the new techniques varying between 30% and 200%.
66.    With respect to market linkages, the recently introduced SOASP units are playing and would
continue to play a catalytic role in the process of attracting both sellers of inputs and traders in
agricultural produce to centers of growing agricultural activity. The unit is conceived as a multi-
disciplinary group whose modus operandi is still experimental and would be better defined during project
implementation. Emphasis would be given initially to organizing meetings of suppliers, crop traders,
industries interested in agricultural raw materials, and farmers groups and individuals, as well as on
assessing market prospect for specific areas, and in supporting the SMS work in the field of storage and
processing, and generally post-harvest activities. The project design is flexible in this domain, since the
methodology needs to be firmed up on the basis of experience.
67.   IRAD agricultural researchers will provide training, participative farming systems diagnosis and
field trials services in support of the agricultural extension services, under a client service contract.
Development of further collaboration agreements with private partners and NGOs, of which there are
already some successful examples, will test alternatives for increasing private sector participation in the
research and extension network.
INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS
68.   Executing Agencies - Integration of existing activities funded by independent projects and
parastatals into the national system, which is essential to long term sustainability, will take place
gradually as funding arrangements come up for renewal and Government convinces donors of the
soundness of its new agricultural extension strategy by successful results in the field. As the process
takes place, so the best qualified staff are expected to integrate the national program. Under the pilot



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 23
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
operation on Village Participation, a methodology to organize and understand community demand for
rural services (including extension) will be tested. If successful, the methodology will make it possible to
better plan the provision of services, especially at the local levels of government. As illustrated by field
experience in other countries in the Region, the Village Participation methodology makes it also possible
to increase farmers' say over the management arrangements of the extension service.
69.    The decentralized personnel and financial management systems of the Ministry of Agriculture
need to be strengthened and training is envisaged for provincial level staff in improved accounting and
management practices. Training programs and the pilot initiative to strengthen capacity for training
agricultural and livestock technicians will be carried out in close coordination with the General
Administration Directorates (DAG) for both Ministries and the Secretary General of MINAGRI.
70.    Work has begun on the definition of a single rural development Ministry responsible, among
other things, for agricultural services and technology transfer. The principles of the national agricultural
extension strategy by the Ministry of Agriculture will be included in new proposals for rationalizing
current Ministerial institutional structures. The national staff of the PNVA and those of the Presidential
Service for Administrative Reform (SPRA) are currently working on how these principles will be
included in the definition of posts under the organogram of the new Ministry.
71.    Certain extension and training activities will be subcontracted to NGOs, the national universities
and other partners, which have the proven experience and willingness to provide support to farmers and
farmers' associations in such areas as improved access to credit, marketing support, organization for the
purchase of inputs and post-harvest storage and transformation.
SOCIAL ISSUES
72.    Poverty Impact - A major thrust of the project is to coordinate the poverty alleviation and
agricultural development policies of the Government. The project will address the problem of how to
reach the poor and how to ensure that action is taken to solve their problems on a priority basis.
Important modifications in the modus operandi of extension staff will be introduced to that effect. These
include:
*  participatory identification of different social strata at village level;
*  identification of production problems affecting different social strata and by gender;
*  there will be several contact groups consisting of representatives of different social strata and gender;
*  continuous participatory diagnosis will be done with different contact groups;
*  demand for services and identification of priority research themes will be recorded by different
contact group identifying those which are common to all social strata, and those which are specific to
poor farmers and women.
73.    Special training programs will be undertaken to develop the skills necessary to undertake the
above at all levels in the Ministry Staff involved in extension. The selection of research projects to be
financed by the competitive research funds will give priority, among the themes identified through
participatory diagnostic work, to those themes which originate in the demand of poor farmers and women
farmers.
74.    Supportfor Women - Efforts will be directed specifically at women in the rural communities. A
training program in gender issues will be carried out involving all staff of the Ministry connected with
extension. The number of female extension staff will be increased. Special terms contracts will be
offered to village-resident women who would act as extension officers, and receive training as required.
As many women as possible would be encouraged to join or make up their own contact groups for



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 24
Cameroon: Agrcultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
extension visits. The target during the next five years will be to increase from 35 to 50% the proportion
of women as members of contact groups, meeting regularly with extension staff, to reflect more closely
the proportion of farmers who are women. Furthermore, pending the design of a new project supporting
community development, the project will finance the incremental costs of the field services of the
Ministry dealing with nutrition and home economics extension.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Environment Category B.
75.   An environmental analysis was completed in June 1997, which includes an evaluation of the
environmental impact of the ongoing PNVA, and recommendations for the next phase. The evaluation
concluded that the PNVA has contributed to environment protection through promotion of technologies
which tend to conserve resources and to mitigate the adverse effect of expanding agricultural production,
particularly in the areas which are most fragile, such as the Northern and Western provinces.
Recommendations for improvement include many detailed suggestions. Examples of the most important
recommendations which can be implemented in practice, without endangering the demand driven policy
of the PNVA include: further work on IPM to reduce the use of chemical pesticides, continued emphasis
on composting to reduce need for chemical fertilizers, measures to prevent water pollution from treatment
of highly toxic cassava varieties, more emphasis on associations of legume cover crops on fallow land.
Participatory diagnosis of environmental problems should be included in the diagnostic work. A training
program for extension staff, in particular for the newly created SMS-environment posts, and for the AVZ
is recommended, including contracting training with the Universities special units on environment. These
recommendations are included in the project design.
PARTICIPATORY APPROACH
(a)    Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:  Project design has been built upon the
increasingly successful results of on-farm participatory diagnosis between extension staff, researchers
and farmers. Continued high priority will be given to training in diagnosis techniques for all staff
(supervisory, technical and front line staff). Prioritization of research and extension programs is now
based predominantly on expressed farmer priority concerns, collected during the regular farm visits by
extension and research staff. During launch workshops of the four most recent provinces (North West,
Center, North and South), all parties (private and public sectors) involved in rural development activities
in these provinces participated in defining the appropriate research and extension service for the
province. This process will continue, through relaunch workshops to be held in the six original
provinces, where the PNVA program started more as a free-standing project operation, rather than a
program bringing together existing rural development partners.
(b)    Other key stakeholders: Private sector partners have participated increasingly in joint programs
with the extension services and representatives of farmers' groups and associations providing training
and distribution of product samples to be tested by farmers in several thousand on-farm demonstration
plots. The confidence which has developed following this participation has led several large scale input
distributors to invest in local production plants and to multiply the number of distribution outlets,
bringing these into greater proximity of their new clients.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 25
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
F. Sustainability and Risks
SUSTAINABILITY
76.    The long term sustainability of the national extension program depends on: (a) the priority given
to the program by MINAGRI and MINEPIA decision-makers at the time of the formulation of the annual
budget, (b) the design and implementation of effective measures to control better the release of funds
allocated to extension under the Budget, (c) the speed at which cost sharing arrangements develop and
the amount of budget resources this will eventually free for other uses, (d) the efficiency with which
Government will achieve cost reduction through eliminating less priority activities and related sources of
expenditure, and (e) the efforts of the Ministry to sub-contract certain extension activities to private
partners and the extent to which this will provide opportunities for cost-sharing, particularly in respect of
extension efforts for high value export crops.
CRITICAL RISKS
Risk                     Risk                   Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Development Objectives to CAS Objectives
1. Government fails to pursue liberal       M      1. World Bank and IFAD  maintain firm  dialogue with
macroeconomic policies or maintain public          Government.
expenditure in support of agricultural sector
at 1997/98 levels.
2. International commodity prices become    M      2. As in 1. above. Diversification of agricultural technology will
volatile and Government abandons                   enable Cameroon to improve its resistance to changes in prices
liberalization measures.                           of certain commodities.
3. Re-training of staff on dealing with     M      3. Strong political support is required for this element of the
resource poor and women farmers problems           project to succeed. Study tours to successful projects within and
does not take place and differential approach      beyond the region will increase awareness of successful options
to poor and wealthy farmers is not applied.        to follow.  Cofmancing with IFAD will keep supervision
attention concentrated on this potential risk.
Project Outputs to Development Objectives
1. Ineffective PNVA manager appointed by    H      1. Government to nominate national coordinator whose
Govermment.                                        experience and qualifications are acceptable to IDA.
2. Improvements in participatory farming    N      2. Strong priority is being given to participatory diagnosis
system diagnosis discontinued.                     training for all project staff during the early years of the project.
3. Experience from neighboring Nigeria and elsewhere, where
3. Difficulties in identifying problems of  M      IFAD/IDA have examples of successful experience will be
different types of farmers and ineffective         drawn upon to strengthen the quality of gender oriented
gender training of staff.                          extension.
4. Public service conditions do not improve        4. Public service review continues as priority in the Bank/lFAD
and the best staff begin to leave the service.  S  macroeconomic dialogue with the government.
Project Components to Outputs
1. Dynamic project management and           H      1. Intensive supervision by Bank/IFAD/AfDB missions will be
continued intensive supervision by                 ensured to maintain levels of commitment and enthusiasm



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 26
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
Risk                     Risk                  Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
MINAGRI staff and donor staffare assumed.          generated during the past three years.
2. Approval and release of funds from       S      2. Covenant include to ensure that Government takes over
national budget fail to materialize each year      operating expenses of extension. Bank supervisory staff will
to cover an increasing share of project            participate in PER and Budget Conference meetings to ensure
activities.                                        that sufficient funding is assured.
S     3. Arrangements will be agreed during negotiations, whereby all
3. On farm research and training activities        donors are associated at least twice a year in the review of
are not rigorously tied to national extension      research and training priorities.
staff development objectives.
M      4. Progress on AfDB funding has advanced in tandem with
4. Funding and adequate disbursement              IFAD/IDA. The synergy of three major donors behind this
mechanism by AfDB are not assured.                 project should assist in ensuring that all partners are able to
respect their commitments.
S     5. Regular supervision will assist in minimizing the effects of
5. Interference with the operation of the          possible interference.  Independent evaluation of the use of
Competitive Research Fund.                         Competitive Grant funds will be undertaken to ensure best use
of funds.
Overall Project Risk Rating                 S      Historical project experience and the overall poor state of the
lending portfolio in Cameroon suggests a substantial level of
risk for the successful outcome of this project.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS
(Program Alert System):
Type    Risk
Risk                   of    Rating                Risk Minimization Measure
Risk
1. Continued provision of agricultural  G      M      1. Pilot initiatives and study tours are being funded to enable
services as a predominantly publicly                  decision-makers to compare alternative experience in
provided service.                                     privately provided services elsewhere.
2. Lack of broad donor support for    0        M      2. Regular meetings with donors on research and extension
national program approach.                            programming. Cofmancing by IFAD/AfDB and IDA
provides significant critical mass of donor support.
3. Resistance to recognize the need to  S      M      3. Indicators designed to identify project impact on poorest
distinguish technology transfer                       farmers and training in how to improve targeting of poor and
requirements of the poor as different                 women farmers included in design.
from those of the wealthier ones and to
concentrate on the priority needs of
poor farmers.
Type of Risk: S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating:   H (High), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 27
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
G. Main Credit Conditions
77.   Conditions for negotiations: none
78.   Conditions for Board presentation: none
79.   Conditions of effectiveness:
a) detailed annual plans, including training programs, and budgets in respect of project activities for the
initial period up to December 31, 1999 have been received and found satisfactory to IDA;
b) independent auditors have been employed by the Government;
c) a Project Implementation Manual satisfactory to IDA has been adopted;
d) the IFAD Loan Agreement has been executed and all its effectiveness conditions fulfilled.
80.   Main Credit conditions:
a) The government shall open a project account and deposit, not later than January 15, 2000 an initial
contribution of CFAF 360 million;
b) Not later than March 31, 1999 the Government shall furnish to IDA for review and comments,
detailed proposals for a coordination system between research and extension activities at the national
and provincial levels;
c) Not later than October 31, 1999 the Government shall implement the coordination system between
research and extension;
d) As of October 31, 1999 not later than October 31, each year, the Government shall provide to IDA,
for review and approval detailed work plans, including training programs, and proposed budgets in
respect of project activities for the forthcoming year;
e) Not later than June 30, 2000, the Government shall establish and maintain a financial management
system satisfactory to IDA, ensuring timely release and availability of local funds required to meet
the total operating costs of the agricultural extension services at the level of each province;
f) Not later than December 31, 2000, the Government shall carry out a review of MINAGRI's and
MINEPIA's operations and human resources in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA;
g) Not later than December 31, 1999 and December 31, 2001 respectively, the Borrower shall undertake
a beneficiary assessment of the farmers relating to the effectiveness of the agricultural extension and
research services, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA;
h) Not later than December 31, 2000 and December 31, 2002 respectively, the Government shall
undertake a rural household survey to measure the impact of the project on agricultural production
and incomes, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA;
i) Not later than June 30, 1999, the Government shall furnish to IDA, for review and approval, a
detailed proposal for a pilot project designed to test alternative extension delivery systems;
j) Not later than March 31, 1999 the Government shall establish a Committee, responsible for inviting
proposals for sub-projects identified for funding out of the Research Grants component;
k) Not later than June 30, 1999, the Government shall through MINAGRI, MINEPIA and MINREST
furnish to IDA for review and approval, a Research Grant Manual;
I) Government will maintain a National Coordinator whose qualifications and experience are
acceptable to IDA;
m) Prepare on or about March 31, each year a progress report integrating the results of the monitoring
and evaluation activities of the project;
n) Carry out not later than March 31, 2001 jointly with IDA a Mid-Term Review;



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 28
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
o) Audit reports in the long form will be submitted within six months of the end of the fiscal year to
which they refer.
81.   Disbursement condition under the Competitive Grant Scheme:
Research projects shall be eligible to IDA financing provided that: (a) they are in accordance with
policies and procedures acceptable to IDA; (b) the committee, responsible for the review and approval of
research projects, has been established; and (c) the research procedures manual has been adopted in form
and substance satisfactory to IDA.
82.   During Negotiations, the following understandings were reached:
a) Annual budgets agreed each year in respect of project activities will be used for the control of
expenditures to be reimbursed by the CAA and individual non-objections by IDA for expenditures
falling below the mandatory limits mentioned in Annex 6 will not be required;
b) A prioritized annual national research program will be discussed and agreed with farmers, extension
(MINAGRI) and representatives of the main donors supporting agricultural research, and donors will
be associated at least twice a year in the review of research and training priorities.
H. Readiness for Implementation
83.   The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
84.   The project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
TaskT    'a er
stopher Trapman                                    Joseph Baah-Dwomoh



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 29
Cameroon: Agricultjral Extension and Research Programs Support Project
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 - PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators              Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Supervision                  and Risks
1. CAS Objective
1.1. Improving the     1.1.1. Minimum increases of 5% pa in   1.1.1.1. Base line survey and  1. Government continues to
incomes and            gross farm incomes for 30% of all   annual farm household         pursue liberal
productivity of the    farm families, targeting at least half    surveys.                macroeconomic policies
poor.                  with less than 0.5 ha and/or women                                and maintains public
food crop producers.                                             expenditure in support of
agricultural sector at
1997/98 levels.
2. Project Devt. Obj.
2.1. Improve           2.1. 1. Average increases in yields of    2.1.1.1. Baseline survey and  1. International commodity
agricultural           10% pa from new technology.         annual farm household         prices remain stable and
productivity of men and                                    surveys.                      Government continues to.
womenfarmers.                                                                            pursue liberalization
2.2. Ensure that       2.2.1. Increase in number of extension   2.2.1.2. Beneficiary     measures.
resource poor and      contact groups established by different  assessment. Supervision
women food crop        social strata and gender, when      reports.                      2. Re-training of staff on
producers'problems     relevant, to ensure poor and women                                dealing with resource poor
are fully integrated in   farmers problems are adequately                                and women farmers
extension activities.  tackled.                                                          problems is successful and
differential approach to
poor and wealthy farmers
actually applied.
3. Project Outputs
3.1. Increase in the   3.1.1. Numbers of farmers in contact    3.1.1.1. Monthly reports from  1. Government appoints
number offarmers       with extension services to reach 30 %    sector supervisors,      effective dynamic
(particularly women)    of farm families by 2002, of which  consolidated at regional,    management of PNVA.
receiving advisory     50% would be women farmers (up      provincial and national levels.
services.              from 35% in 1997).                                                2. Continuous improvement
3.1.1.2. Beneficiary assessment  in participatory farming
studies.                     system diagnosis.
3.2. Increase in       3.2.1. Increase in adoption rates of  3.2.1.1. Fortnightly reports  3. Simple methods for
adoption rates of new    technical messages by farmers in  from sector supervisors,      identifying different
technical messages.    contact groups to reach 80% by 2002.   consolidated at regional,  problems of different type
provincial and national level.    of farmers are introduced
and gender training of staff
3.2.1.2. Special in-depth    prove effective tools to
adoptionlrejection case studies.  influence approach.
3.3. Sustainable       3.3.1. 1690 agricultural extension staff  3.3.1.1. Staff numbers
professional advisory    (of whom 200 women staff recruited  monitored during regular    4. Public service conditions
services provided to   contractually) in post by 2002.     supervision. Details reported    improve or the best staff
farmers.                                                   half-yearly.                  will leave the service as



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 30
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators              Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Supervision                  and Risks
3.4. Demand driven     3.4.1. Annual research program based   3.4.1.1. Quality of results and    private sector opportunities
national agricultural    principally on results of participative    following years' program  increase.
research system        on-farmn diagnosis agreed by all     reviewed by October 31 each
operational.           partners.                            year.
3.5. Large scale       3.5.1. Number of farmers and groups    3.5.1.1. Report on activities of
farmers and market     served by private suppliers.         subject matter specialists.
orientedfarmers
groups approach                                             3.5.1.2. Report on activities of
professional                                                SOASP.
agricultural advisors in
the private sector;
supply ofprivate
services increases.
3.6. Better linkages of   3.6.1. Number of meetings/workshops   3.6.1.1. Reports of SOASP.
groups offarmers with   (farmers and private operators)     Supervision mission reports
market (suppliers, crop   organized by SOASP staff in each  IDA/IFAD.
purchasers)            region; number of input purchasing
established            groups formed; quantities transacted;
number of processing/marketing
groups formed; sales quantities/value.
3. 7.Lessons learnt from   3.7.1. Identification of ways to  3.7.1.1. External monitoring
village-based          mobilize farmers common interest     and evaluation of pilot
participative          groups for development activities and    component.
community              for maintenance of common initiatives.
development
component.
3.7.2. Test of financial mechanisms to
support community initiatives and
recommendations for formulation of a
larger future project to support
community development.
4. Project
Components
4.1. Agricultural      4.1.1. Extension services in all 10  4.1.1.1. Regular supervision  1. Dynamic project
Extension.             provinces equipped to carry out and to   assured by the national   management and continued
supervise regular extension and     coordination unit, DEPA and    intensive supervision by
training programs.                  DEC.                           MINAGRI and MINEPIA
4.1.2. Internal monitoring unit     4.1.2.1. Internal monitoring   staff and donor staff
strengthened an internal information  reports and IDA/IFAD         assumed.
computerized at provincial level.   supervision missions.
4.1.3. GOC maintains public         4.1.3.1. Monitor during annual  2. Approval and release of
expenditure support for agricultural  PER review and budget        funds from national budget
sector at least at 1997/98 levels.  approval exercise each May.    materializes each year to
4.1.4. Efficient budget release                                    cover an increasing share of
mechanism to ensure regular funding                                project activities.
at provincial levels in place.
4.1.5. 100 % of recurrent funding of                               3. On-field research and
extension program to be met out of                                 training activities are
local funds by 2001.                                               rigorously tied to national



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 31
Cameroon: Agricutural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators              Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Supervision                  and Risks
4.1.6. On-farm research, diagnosis and   4.1.6. 1. Ten contracts signed  extension staff development
training activities sub-contracted to  by provincial supervisors and    objectives.
researchers.                        IRAD station/center chiefs.
4.1.7. Record of farmer participation  4.1.7.1. AVZ supervisors   4. Funding and adequate
and of increasing participation of  reports and information stored   disbursement mechanism
resource-poor and women farmers.    in computerized data base     by AfDB is assured.
includes number of resource
poor and women farmers        5. Non-interference with the
contact groups and poverty    competitive mechanism of
sensitive themes included in    the Fund.
the work program.
4.2. On- Station       4.2.1. Facilities and equipment of  4.2.1.1. ADF and MINREST
Agricultural Research    IRAD's 5 regional centers are      supervision missions.
operational.
4.2.2. Implementation of in-service  4.2.2.1. Missions as above.
training for scientists and support staff.
4.2.3. On-station priority research  4.2.3.1. Monitoring and
programs are prepared and           Evaluation reports prepared by
implemented.                        MINAGRI/MINEPIA/
MINREST. ADF supervision.
4.2.4. The management committee of   4.2.4.1. Monitoring by
the competitive research fund is    MINAGRI/MINEPIA/MlNRE
established and its members appointed.  ST.
The research grant manual is adopted.
4.2.5. The fund is operational.     4.2.5.1. National coordination.
Research grants made (number and
types) and adoption rates by farmers.
4.3. Training and      4.3.1. Training program operational  4.3.1.1. Training program (see
Human Resource         and regular orientation training and  Project Implementation
Management.           recycling courses, continuous on-the-    Manual) as basis for
job training and specific needs training   monitoring and supervision.
under way.                          IDA and IFAD supervision
mission reports.
4.3.2. Personnel management         4.3.2.1. Procedures presented
procedures established.             to IDA and IFAD for review
during supervision.
4.3.3. Training of key staff in human    4.3.3.1. Key staff trained.
resource management completed.      Monitored during supervision.
4.3.4. Creation of a financial      4.3.4.1. Monitoring of situation
management cell to (i) review financial  by DEPA with external
management procedures; (ii) train   controllers.
accounting staff, and (iii) ensure
replacement of external controllers.
4.3.5. Supply and demand study of   4.3.5.1. Report presented to
agricultural technical staff completed.   project and IDA.
4.3.6. Rehabilitation of 2/3 agiicultural  4.3.6.1. Proposals presented by
colleges under way.                 DEPA/DEC for rehabilitation
cleared with IDA before tender
documents are prepared.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 32
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
Narmtive Summary         Key Performance Indicators              Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Supervision                  and Risks
4.4. Support to        4.4.1. SOASP staff in place with    4.4.1.1. Supervision of
farmers' associations    resources to operate.              activities to be undertaken
andpromotion of                                            jointly by the national
private sector linkages.                                    coordination with
representatives of private
sector partners.
4.4.2. Training and extension       4.4.2.1. National coordination
activities undertaken by NGOs and   unit monitors sub-contracted
private sector on contractual basis.  activities.
4.5. Village-based     4.5.1. Preparation and appraisal of  4.5.1.1. Proposal formulated by
participative          component.                           DEPA in collaboration with
community                                                  DEC and DGRDC for
development                                                submission for IDA's and
IFAD's approval.
4.5.2 Successful implementation of  4.5.2.1 Joint supervision
activities included in the action plans.   MINAGRI/MINEPIA. IDA
and IFAD supervision mission
reports.
4.6. Impact Evaluation.  4.6.1. Repeat survey of baseline  4.6.1.1. Survey carried out by
sample survey to be carried out in year  consultants under supervision
2 and 4 of the project.             of DEPA, DEC and DPA.
4.6.2. In-depth technology adoption/    4.6.2.1. One such study by
rejection case studies (limited     province contracted to
purposive samples of villages,      specialists every year, under
technical themes).                  supervision of DEPA.
4.6.3. Beneficiary assessment (BA) of   4.6.3.1. BA carried out by
PNVA's services in year I and 3 of the  external consultants, under
project.                            supervision of DEPA/DEC.
4.7. Streamlining of   4.7.1. Financial management system in  4.7.1, 1. IDA/IFAD supervision
Government budget      place by June 30, 2000 to ensure full    missions.
fund release           local funding of operational expenses
procedures financial   of extension services.
control and audit.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 33
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
ANNEX 2 - DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Introduction
1.    The project comprises six main components:
a) Agricultural Extension (sub-components include participatory diagnosis of farmers'
production problems, transfer of environmentally sustainable improved farming techniques,
particularly to resource-poor and women farmers, availability of improved seeds and breeding
stock, increased use of mass media, monitoring of the progress of extension and research
activities);
b) Agricultural Research (sub-components include strengthening of IRAD's agricultural research
services, on-station research, training of IRAD staff, the interface between research and
extension, including training of subject matter specialists, on-farm trials and on-farm diagnosis,
and the establishment of a Competitive Grant Scheme to finance research projects originating in
the participatory diagnosis work undertaken with farmers at village level);
c) Training and Human Resources Development (comprising a large number of staff training
programs, including training on participatory assessment of farmers technology transfer needs
by different socio-economic strata, training of staff on gender issues in agricultural production,
training in environment conservation, in post harvest and product processing, in group market
links development, as well as pilot proposal to rehabilitate two/three agricultural colleges for
basic and refresher training of agricultural technicians operating in the public and private
sector);
d) Support to Farmers' Organizations and Links with the Private Sector;
e) Pilot project in support of Village Community Initiatives; and
f) Project Impact Evaluation.
2.     Components:
(a) Agricultural Extension - US$26.1 million
3.     The Agricultural Extension component represents a continuation of support, started under
the ongoing National Agricultural Extension and Training project (Ln. 3185-CM), for the
implementation of national agricultural extension policy.
Policy, Approach, Methodology, and Main Activities
4.     The National Agricultural Extension Program will continue to ensure that advisory services
reach as many livestock and crop farmers as possible. The main principles of agricultural
extension will continue to be applied, namely the professionalisation of all staff to ensure high
quality of service; a single line of command to avoid conflict of authority; close linkages between
extension and research; participation among extension staff, researchers and farmers in on-farmn
diagnosis and adaptive research, permanent retraining of staff; flexibility in the system to be able to
take advantage of the knowledge and experience of all partners intervening in rural areas,
systematic programming of activities at all levels, and regular supervision, and monitoring of work-
in-progress. In comparison to the first phase, greater attention will be paid to animal husbandry and
fisheries extension, facilitated by an agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture and the



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 34
Cameroon: Agrcultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Animal Industries (MINEPIA) signed in September 1997. A
deputy Coordinator of agricultural extension has been nominated by MINEPIA and further
secondment of staff is expected at the provincial, regional, sector and zonal levels, as the need
arises.
5.    The program will build on the strengths of the experience developed since 1991, which
include increasing the productivity of a significant number of farmers, through the introduction of
simple low cost techniques. The capacity and effectiveness of the front line agricultural advisory
services have been considerably improved and the next phase of project funding will build on these
improvements by improving the quality and increasing coverage in terms of the typology of the
rural households served, so as to benefit more womenfarmers and also to pay special attention to
resource-poorfarmers on a priority basis. Participatory diagnostic work will be improved to ensure
that the specific problems of poor farmers and women farmers are appreciated and fully taken into
account in elaborating the program of work of extensions and research (see training and human
resource development component). Where special problems of poor and women farmers are
identified, separate contact groups of these farmers will be formed. Participation by farmers in
programming agricultural extension and research will be intensified by continued emphasis on joint
on-farm diagnosis by extension and research workers. Training in continuous technical diagnosis
methods will remain a priority. Large farmers, planters and associations of primarily market-
oriented cash crop producers would be serviced at SMS level (there are currently 5 of different
specialization in each of the 52 agricultural regions) and gradually encouraged to address
themselves to private agricultural technicians for detailed on-farm advice. Contacts between SMS
and these farmers would involve a two-way flow of information on specific technology
development and problem identification. Farm management advice for more advanced farmers
would be supplied either by specific SMS in farm management or by the private sector (private
extension practitioners, as these develop, suppliers, crop purchasers). The use of mass media will
be strengthened to complement the participatory approach to extension.
6.    Following an encouraging start under the first phase project, seed production and
multiplication will receive enhanced support. In particular, national seeds legislation will be
finalized, and women's groups and small scale individual farmers will be encouraged to multiply
improved seeds, and disease free planting materials of root crops. The project will promote the
production of base seeds of varieties of interest to these groups and of disease free material by the
research stations and Commercial Seed Producers under contract and ensure that such materials
reach all demanding small farmer groups multipliers.
7.    In order to maintain the new levels of commitment among extension staff, anaward system
based on merit will be introduced for extension and research staff.
8.    The policy aimed at containing the Government role in technology generation and transfer
to what is necessary and legitimate to achieve public objectives in agriculture and poverty
alleviation, will be pursued by encouraging certain sectors of the farming community to purchase
their own advisory services from private extension practitioners, to encourage the creation of a
supply of such private services and to encourage testing alternative technology delivery systems.
Since there is little experience with such initiatives in Cameroon, the project will support activities
on a pilot basis to encourage the development of privately supplied extension. These could include
but are not limited to:



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 35
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
a)  Study tours by public and private sector representatives will be organized to countries beyond
the Africa Region to compare experiences2 which could be of relevance to Cameroon;
b) A  pilot operation to be implemented in two different provinces whereby the Ministry of
Agriculture will experiment with the sub-contracting of extension delivery to organizations
other than the public service. These organizations could include producers organizations,
NGOs, private industry (such as cotton companies, coffee merchants, agro-chemical companies,
etc.). The following steps will be taken to implement this pilot operation:
i)      PNVA will prepare for the Ministers' approval a set of rules and criteria specifying
minimal technical and organizational criteria for the sub-contracting of delivery of
extension. These criteria should reflect the National Extension Strategy and should
regulate key features such as farmers/AVZ ratios, regularity of visits to farmers'
groups, regularity of training, regularity of supervision, coverage of farmers within
a given area, coverage of agricultural enterprises, etc.;
ii)     In the pilot areas, PNVA will invite all actors, active or willing to participate in
extension to a workshop to discuss and agree upon the extension delivery set-up.
The purpose of the workshop is for the PNVA management to explain the National
Extension Strategy, and the criteria for sub-contracting of extension delivery, and
for the different participating organizations to explain their objectives, organization,
and extension methodology;
iii)    As a result of the workshop, contractual agreements will be made between PNVA
and the eligible organizations to regulate the sub-contracting of extension delivery.
In the agreement, the geographic area, the number of staff involved, and the mutual
responsibilities will be specified. It is up to the respective parties to determine the
duration of the agreement;
iv)     In those areas where extension delivery is sub-contracted to private organizations,
PNVA will have to withdraw the existing staff from extension activities, either by
physically relocating these staff to other areas, or by adapting their task
descriptions. PNVA will however retain the responsibility to supervise and monitor
the quality of the extension work of the private organizations, will continue to
provide training (both on methodological aspects and on technical issues), and will
verify the use of funds under the agreement;
v)      The financial covenants need to be discussed and agreed between the different
parties involved, but typically, PNVA will assume financial responsibility for the
cost of on-the-job training, linkages with research, and mobility of staff. The
executing agency will typically bear the salary cost;
c) A pilot initiative to be undertaken in conjunction with one or several associations of producers
of a cash crop (such as coffee or potatoes). The objective of this pilot would be to establish a
methodology, whereby the farmers' association would mobilize funds (possibly from an exports
raised with the help of the Government) to be able to pay for high quality technical advisory
2   The World Bank (December 1996) reviewed some promising alternatives extension services which include,
interalia, co-financing extension by farmers (Nicaragua, Ecuador, Honduras); contracting services of private
extension workers, private consulting firms, NGOs, local universities (Venezuela, Chili [stratification of the client
market with public sector extension resources targeted towards small farmers, while graduating large scale farmers
to fee-for service extension], Bangladesh [NGOs]); decentralized agricultural extension services to municipalities
(Colombia), and introducing mass media-based extension (Brazil, India, Peru).



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 36
Cameroon: Agncultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
and research services. Project funds could be used on a matching grant basis to help pay for the
services for the first two years. The pilot could be used to assist professional associations to
organize themselves and be duly constituted. Both PNVA and the associations will identify
extension and/or research programs that can be supported under the pilot and identify private
providers susceptible to fulfill this role. The contract between PNVA and the associations
would also specify the cost sharing arrangements for the pilot;
d) A pilot program whereby up to 20 municipalities would be selected for joint management and
funding of research and extension. While the PNVA would retain responsibility for technology
transfer and staff training, the municipality would be asked to second staff paid by the
municipality to the extension service or accept MINAGRI staff that the municipality would
manage. The municipality would take part in the participatory diagnosis and, more importantly,
have the responsibility for evaluating the extension work. A contract would be signed between
PNVA and each municipality specifying the contribution of the latter (mainly staff salaries) and
the management responsibilities of the two parties. The Mid-Term Review would specifically
examine the possibility of increasing the contribution and management responsibilities of the
municipalities.
9.     These pilots will be tested during the course of the next three years. Detailed proposals for
the first pilot will be drawn up within 6 months of project effectiveness. Each proposal will provide
a detailed description of what is to be done under the pilot; the benchmarks to measure
achievements; a timetable for the first and subsequent phases of the pilot; details of a program to
evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the proposal; and draft contracts for implementation. These
details will be discussed and agreed with IDA/FIDA before the pilot goes ahead.
10.   Action will be taken to implement the main recommendations of the environmental analysis
carried out by SBMCG3. The recommendations include the elaboration of an environmental
management manual, the identification of the tools of environmental conservation which fit with
farmers own felt priorities, and the identification of monitoring indicators of environmental
protection, and the evaluation of the impact of project activities on the environment. During the
next four years, emphasis will be placed on improving the organization and terms of reference of
the Environment Subject Matter Specialists (TSE - there is one in each province), whose main
function will be training of front-line agents in conservation oriented production technologies
adaptable by small farmers. Special attention would be given to develop IPM technologies by
strengthening the SMS plant protection posts and closely associating the Division of Plant
Protection to the field extension activities. Farmers will be trained in the use of compost/manure
pits to reduce the need for chemical fertilizers, and women farmers will be trained in techniques to
reduce the impact of toxic waste from cassava processing in the river flows. Further efforts will be
made to respond to demand for conservation oriented practices in the most fragile areas by training
farmers in agroforestry practices and in the advantage of planting legume fodder crops on fallow
land, etc. The project provides funding for the sub-contracting of certain specific environmental
protection activities to third parties, such as the Environment and Forestry Ministry and to NGOs
already operating in certain districts, such as Enviro-protect, Living Earth and Green Care.
3   Evaluation Environnementale du Projet d'Appui au Service National de la Vulgarisation Agricole by Soft Business
Management Consulting Group, June 1997



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 37
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
Monitoring extension progress
11.   The PNVA's own internal Project Monitoring Unit will be strengthened to systematically
analyze critical data collected by the staff, with a view to keeping decision makers informed of
issues requiring rapid interventions and special attention during supervision. This will apply to all
operations of the Extension Division, to the joint operations with IRAD for on-farm research work,
and for the research projects financed under the Competitive Fund. The monitoring of the
implementation of the IRAD research component will be arranged separately. The external
evaluation of the national programs, will be implemented under a separate component, the
coordination of which is entrusted to the Division of Studies and Projects, DEPA of the Ministry of
Agriculture, in collaboration with the DEC/MINEPIA.
12.   Sector Supervisors collect the first generation of information recorded by the AVZ and
discuss this in the regular sector fortnightly meetings with all AVZ to facilitate exchange of
infornation and check progress of work. SMS staff also record the information they collect. The
information recorded by the AVZ is compiled in a form kept by the Sector Supervisors and shared
with the Regional Supervisors and the SMS at the monthly regional meetings. These reports form
the basis of the data sheet discussed jointly by the Regional Supervisor and the Provincial staff of
the extension staff. At Provincial level the data is recorded in a computerized data base by the staff
of the Provincial Monitoring Unit. The staff of the Extension Division, and the Monitoring Service
in particular, will travel to the provinces as part of regular supervision and collect the data from the
Provincial Units and use it to compile the Quarterly Progress Reports.
13.   The details of program monitoring indicators are included in the Project Implementation
Manual. Data is collected according to newly designed notebooks for front level staff and of their
supervisors. The current record keeping system will be slightly modified to show information at
Regional Supervisors' level with regard to the number of women farmer contact groups
participating in the AVZ program and to identify the number of farmers adopting poverty sensitive
technology innovation themes. This information will be computerized at the provincial level, and
released on a monthly basis to higher management and to the interested supervisory staff. Trends
will be computed to show the evolution of the program actions in accordance with the policy calling
for priority attention to the problems of the less wealthy farmers and to women food crop producers.
Funds to purchase the necessary computer and related equipment for the Monitoring Units of all the
10 Provinces are included in the Extension Component.
Cost of extension activities
14.   Under the extension component (US$26.1 million), the project will fund the activities of the
national agricultural extension and research programs in each of Cameroon's 10 Provinces over the
next 4 years. Investment costs under the extension component would be US$9.3 million, and
recurrent costs US$16.8 million. In particular, under the extension component the project will
finance:
a) the purchase of cars for supervisory staff and motor cycles4 for the AVZs (US$5.6 million);
b) operation and maintenance cost of vehicles and other equipment (US$8.4 million);
4   Motorized canoes for fisheries extension staff, as justified by their program of work



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 38
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
c) travel allowances for extension staff (US$6 million);
d) improvement to office buildings and office equipment (US$3.1 million);
e) recruitment of 200 female extension workers contracted in their villages of residence (US$0.8
million);
f) pilot projects for sub-contracting extension and research activities to NGOs, private partners,
municipalities (US$2.1 million).
15.   Operation and maintenance of extension equipment, vehicles and motor cycles is the most
important budget line item (the project will cover the operation and maintenance costs of more than
2,000 motorcycles and field allowances of extension and supervision staff, when away from duty
station, for 4 years. IDA will meet 100% of all operation and maintenance expenditures, except
those for motorcycles for the first year and 40% thereafter. IFAD will fund 100% of the costs of
the operating expenses of motorcycles for the first year and 40% thereafter. Field staff are provided
with motor cycles under individual agreements, developed under the ongoing project, whereby
ownership of the motorcycle reverts to the field staff, after 5 years of use on official duties. This
formula has proven to be cost effective and provides an incentive for key staff, in an environment
where salaries and allowances are low. Vehicles will be provided for supervision activities.
16.   A total of 2,500 staff from IRAD, Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Livestock
will be involved in project implementation by the fourth year of the project, by which time
agricultural advisory services should be available to the majority of Cameroon's farm population.
Extension agents operate within sectors comprising between 600 and 1,100 farm families each,
depending upon population density, rural infrastructure and distances between villages. About
1,700 front line staff will ensure advisory services directly to between 25%-35% of these farmers
and the demonstration effects of the adoption of improved techniques are expected to ensure that
messages pass to those farmers, who are not directly in contact with the field staff. The full
establishment of field staff will be provided by those best qualified chosen from the establishments
of the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock, Condition Feminine, MINEF, projects, parastatals,
NGOs and other partners, who are prepared to participate in the national program. Redeployment
of staff may be necessary and has already started in certain areas. Arrangements for the
deployment of staff from non-governmental sources would be covered under specific agreements
drawn up between these partners and the Ministry of Agriculture.
17.   Operating costs financed under the extension component do not include salaries, except for
the new recruitment of 200 women AVZs to work in their own village of origin under special short
term renewable contracts. Nevertheless external funding of operating costs under the project is
sizable. IDA and IFAD funding will meet the full field operations and incremental operating costs
of the extension service during the first 12 months of the project. This will ensure that farmer
advisory services are maintained while the Ministry of Finance and the MINAGRI streamline,
within the above mentioned period, the procedures for disbursing funds currently available to
extension under the Government Budget, introducing mechanisms which would ensure that these
resources can be actually used when and where they are required.
(b) Agricultural Research Component (US$14.6 million)
18.   Under the Research component, the African Development Bank will fund three sub-
components in direct support of the National Institute for Agricultural Research and Development
(IRAD) over the next five years. These sub-components (totaling US$10.3 million) include:



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 39
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
a) strengthening of IRAD research capacity (US$6.0 million) to include: rehabilitation of the
physical infrastructure of selected IRAD stations, purchase of equipment, provision of technical
assistance, documentation and operating costs of research staff);
b) operating cost for on-station research work (US$3.4 million); and
c) local and overseas training of IRAD research staff (US$0.9 million).
19.   In addition, the agricultural research component will include two other sub-components as
follows:
a) interface of research and development (US$3.3 million); and
b) a competitive grant scheme to finance research projects on a competitive basis (US$1
million).
20.    Details of the AfDB financed agricultural research components are included in the project
appraisal report of the AfDB. Technical and institutional responsibility for implementation of the
AfDB financed sub components will be with the Director General of IRAD, a relatively young
institution created in March 1996, following the fusion of separate research institutes for agronomy
and livestock research.
21.    The  interface  of research  and  development sub-component consists  of joint
IRAD/MINAGRI/ MINEPIA activities such as:
a) joint participatory diagnosis of farming systems in conjunction with farmers and livestock
owners;
b) training of subject matter specialists at monthly technology review meetings and preparation of
technical brochures for use by front line field staff; and
c) trials carried out in farmers' fields in conjunction with relevant subject matter specialists and
front line staff.
22.   In accordance with an agreement signed in April 1996 between the Ministry of Agriculture
and the Ministry of Scientific Research, IRAD will provide support for agricultural extension
activities. The funding (included in the budget of the Department of Agricultural Production) of the
above activities by IRAD will be governed by individual service contracts negotiated between the
provincial agricultural extension teams and the chief of station/center for IRAD at the provincial
level. The program will reflect the participatory diagnosis carried out between farmers, research
staff and field extension staff during the preceding months. IRAD will independently manage the
funds released to them under the contracts. Contracts will be renewed by the Ministry of
Agriculture on the basis of the completion of satisfactory services.
23.    The Competitive Grant Scheme (US$1 million) will finance specific research projects, over
and above those which will be undertaken by IRAD under the AfDB sub-component (US$3.4
million). Eligible projects for finance by this scheme will be those which have been identified
during participatory diagnostic work with producers but for which solutions have not been found by
IRAD or according to priorities established by the Ministries responsible for rural development.
Implementation of these projects will be entrusted to any qualified research outfit, public and
private, under a competitive bidding procedure. The Competitive Grant Scheme will begin with the
elaboration of a procedures manual, followed by a workshop organized jointly by the Ministry of
Scientific Research and the Ministry of Agriculture, within six months of project effectiveness,



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 40
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
which will establish the procedures for requesting, preparing and evaluating research proposals,
together with arrangements for supervision to ensure that the process is transparent and
participation as broad as possible. Funding will cover the incremental costs of on-station research
or on-farm research, and investments in vehicles and laboratory equipment will not exceed 20% of
the total costs of each proposal. Overhead costs of the institutes involved will not be eligible for
funding. An ad hoc eight member Committee will be set up to invite research proposals for
identified problems, appraise the proposals received and decide on contract rewards.  The
Secretariat of the Committee will be provided by the National PNVA Coordinator, who would be
assisted by the Head of Unit responsible for links with research. The Minister for Agriculture
would sign contracts under the grant scheme. IRAD will compete for these funds with other
qualified institutions in the Region. A close monitoring of the Grant Scheme will be provided by
the DEPA, in coordination with DEC to demonstrate the feasibility of investing in research and to
attract future funding from other donors.
(c) Training and Human Resource Management component (US$3.9 million)
24.   The component includes three sub-components as follows:
a) Training of Government staff and of private technicians (US$3.4 million);
b) Assessment of the market for private agricultural advisory services and rehabilitation of
agricultural colleges (US$0.4 million); and
c) improved human resource management (US$0.09 million).
25.   Training.  The training of Government staff and of private technicians will be the
responsibility of a unit within the sub-Directorate for Agricultural Extension, represented at the
center and in each of the 10 provinces. Local and overseas training will be programmed according
to a training plan, agreed annually. The project will support the technical training of staff of the
national agricultural extension system and researchers. To ensure the relevance of such training,
farmers will also participate at many of these training functions. Farmer training is one of the main
objectives and activities of the extension component. There may be cases where selected farmers
could benefit from specific training elsewhere within Cameroon or abroad. Such training would be
considered for funding, if relevant and cost-effective.  During appraisal, the strengths and
weaknesses of the existing training program were analyzed and a detailed training program has
been prepared. (see Annex to Project Implementation Manual for 1998 training program).
26.    The Training sub-component will concentrate on three major areas: (i) orientation training
and recycling; (ii) continuous on-the-job training; and (iii) training related to specific needs. Under
(i) the project will undertake:
*  re-launch workshops in the 6 provinces where the program has been active since 1991, and
where attention will be on associating other agencies, institutions, NGOs and private partners;
*  orientation training for staff of MINEPIA and for staff from other government departments,
who are expected to participate in the program and for senior staff from Research and
Agriculture who have not been directly involved in implementation of the first phase of the
PNVA;
*  special training on identification of agricultural production problem specific to resource poor
and women farmers and on contact group formation by socio-economic/gender stratification
whenever relevant;



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 41
Cameroon: Agrcultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
* general training of all staff in gender issues.
27.    Under (ii), the emphasis will continue on regular fortnightly training of extension staff
undertaken by subject matter specialists (SMS) at the regional headquarters (about 1,000 sessions
per year are programmed), and the monthly technology review meetings (AMRT) between research
staff, extension staff and farmers held at provincial headquarters (objective is 240 AMRTs per
annum).
28.    Under (iii), specific training courses for selected staff will include:
* refresher training in participative diagnosis techniques;
* training of trainers for researchers, supervisors and SMSs;
*  training in methodology for tests and trials in farmers' fields;
* training in teaching practices and group facilitation;
* training of farmers' organization specialists;
* training in monitoring and evaluation;
* training in integrated pest management of field staff;
* training in supervision techniques and organization of meetings;
* specialized training for SMSs;
* training in environment conservation techniques;
* financial management training; and
* human resource management training.
29.    Provision has also been made for overseas study tours. Costs comprise mainly per diem
charges for staff who are attending training courses, travel to and from training for both trainers and
trainees. Existing training establishments and facilities will be used wherever possible.
30.    Assessment of the demand  for agricultural technicians and  rehabilitation  of
agricultural colleges. This sub component involves two operations:
a) the completion of an FAO initiated study of the Reform of Agricultural Teaching and Training5
(US$30,000). In addition to meeting the current in-service training objectives for Government
staff, there is need to increase capacity to run basic training and refresher courses for
agricultural technicians, with a view to increasing the supply of competent technicians in the
private sector as well as for filling vacancies left by retiring Government staff. The study
would assess the quantitative demand for and supply of such services. They will be carried out
by the Studies and Projects Directorate (DEPA) of MNINAGRI in association with the
DEC/MINEPIA and in collaboration with the appropriate administrative and training services
of each Ministry;
b) a potential outcome of the study could be the implementation of a pilot initiative to rehabilitate
two/three agricultural technical colleges. The national project Coordinator's office will liaise
closely with those colleges identified during the above study, on the proposed follow-up and
rehabilitation work, which is not expected to begin before the third year of the project. The
curricula and syllabuses of the colleges will be redesigned in such a way as to provide both in-
service and basic training to agricultural technicians for whom there is expected to be a growing
demand over the coming years as the needs of Cameroonian farmers become increasingly
sophisticated and technically challenging. Funds (US$400,000) have been budgeted to meet the
5   Reforme de I'Enseignement et de la Formation Agricole et Rurale - Michel Gineste FAO/DEPA Janvier 1998



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 42
Cameroon: Agrcultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
costs of rehabilitation and equipment of these colleges to be disbursed during the third and
fourth years of the project.
31.   Human Resource Management. Under this sub-component (US$89,000):
*  a study on personnel management procedures, including career development policies for staff
associated to the extension program will be carried out (US$78,300). Its recommendations will
also cover proposals for other related Departments in the Ministries of Agriculture and
Livestock, Fisheries and Animal Industries;
*  the capacity for handling data on personnel of the Ministry of Agriculture both at the provincial
and central levels will be strengthened by providing computers, printers and other related office
equipment in all provinces (US$10,700). This equipment will be used also by the General
Administration Directorate (DGA) of the MINAGRI. The Directorate will provide support and
advice on staffing and training decisions to the PNVA.
(d) Farmer Organization Support and Private Sector Linkages component (US$452,000)
32.   This component will support the efforts of the SOASP unit of PNVA to develop formal and
informal contacts between farmer groups/associations and private sector suppliers of agricultural
inputs and crop processing equipment, traders, industrial purchasers of agricultural products, etc.
and to assist groups in handling contractual arrangements with the private sector if so demanded by
the farmers. At the lowest level the SOASP unit operates through an SMS posted in the Regions.
At Provincial level the SMS unit will be reinforced with an SMS in post harvest and produce
processing to form a multi-disciplinary team. Funds will be available at this level to contract out
market studies, review of processing techniques of interest to local farmer groups, etc. Assistance
with the financial evaluation of processing and marketing proposals will be given to the provincial
units by the Economist to be posted in the Impact Evaluation Unit of DEPA (see below). A major
activity of the SOASP will be to organize meetings of farmers (at all relevant levels) to exchange
business information among themselves and to meet private sector operators, along the lines of
workshops successfully initiated under the ongoing PNVA. Funding will be made available to
improve communications between regional and provincial level specialists in farmers' associations
and private sector linkages (SOASP), to finance training of farmer group representatives, and to
enable group representatives to undertake study visits both within and outside Cameroon.
(e) Village-based participative community development (US$405,600)
33.   The Village-based participative community development pilot is designed to assist village
communities to analyze their existing situation, identify and agree upon rural development priority
problems, make action plans to address the priority problems, take charge through their own
organizations of the implementation of the action plans, and put pressure on the different services
and development organizations active in the area to provide the quality services needed. The tools
and methods used under this approach are not new: they are the synthesis of a large number of
existing experiences with community participation in rural development (including PRA, NRM,
Social Funds, gestion des terroirs etc.). While this approach is being introduced through the
Extension Service, it is not limited to extension. The problems and action plans identified by the
villages cover the whole spectrum of rural development (including extension). Village Participation
is not designed to replace the national extension system. On the contrary, through the Village
Participation process farmers express their need for know-how and demand adequate assistance
from the extension service as well as from other services.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 43
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
34.   To implement the approach, the extension agents and other partners who are working in the
villages take the entire village communities through a three-step program. First, the villagers
(women and man, young and old, the better off and the poor) make a diagnosis of their existing
situation. To do that, they draw maps, analyze their own organizations, and go through interviews.
At the end of the exercise the entire village agrees on what their priority areas are. Next, people
analyze the problems. This leads to the understanding that even those problems that appeared huge
and uncontrollable can be (partly) resolved using existing resources. At the end of this phase, the
village communities agree on the action plans to deal with the priority problems. The third stage of
the exercise is the organization of the village. They decide on who will be responsible for what and
elect the village council, implementation committees, and allocate specific power, responsibility and
accountability. This leads to the actual implementation of the action plans, and the increased
pressure on the different service delivery organizations to provide the assistance needed.
35.    The Village-based participative community development pilot will be carried out under the
overall coordination of the national PNVA unit by joint teams of staff from the Extension Service
and the Community Development Department. At the provincial level, the Provincial Extension
Coordinator will have the end-responsibility for the pilot operation and will actively involve a wide
range of organizations and individuals, including local government, other rural services -such as
health, education, infrastructure, etc.- NGOs, and any other organizations active in rural
development. The results of this pilot will be monitored and evaluated by the Ministry's
Agricultural Projects and Studies Directorate which will be responsible to identify impact
indicators, carry out a base-line survey, and measure progress on the impact indicators. The pilot
operation will be implemented with a view on the rapid expansion of the approach throughout the
country.
36.    The objectives of the pilot operation will be to:
i) Adapt the Village Participation approach as tested in other African countries to the Cameroonian
situation;
ii) Train a group of trainers in the methodology of community participation;
iii)Examine the mechanism to improve planning at the decentralized levels of government based on
the community priorities and action plans;
iv) Examine the mechanisms to increase farmers' say over the management and the organization of
the extension service;
v) Determine the need to establish a self-standing project to finance community activities.
37.    The pilot will be carried out in three main agro-ecological zones of Cameroon (northern,
western highlands and southern forest zones). A total of some 75-100 villages will be involved in
the operation. Operation of the pilot will be based upon a detailed proposal to be prepared
following study tours in 1998, led by the Ministry of Agriculture, to similar experiences in other
countries in the Region. IDA/IFAD supervision missions will assist in finalizing the proposals.
Funding will be made available under the overall management of the national PNVA Coordination
Unit.
38.    The pilot project would provide experience on alternative ways to manage the
implementation of a larger Community Development Project, including recommendations about
alternative approaches involving the private sector and the respective role of the MINAGRI
DGR&CD and the private sector in the larger project. IFAD has expressed interest in funding such



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 44
Cameroon: Agwcultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
a project. The results of the pilot project will be monitored and evaluated by the Ministry's
Agricultural Projects and Studies Directorate, with a view to preparing a larger scale project for
external funding.
(f) Project Impact Evaluation and Studies component (US$618,800)
39.    The responsibility for this component will be entrusted to the Department of Studies and
Project (DEPA) of the MINAGRI, who will associate the DEC of the MINEPIA in its
implementation. Under this component, five different types of activities are envisaged:
i. regular review and analysis of information internally generated by the extension staff. These
include information on: (a) the participation rate of farmers (men and women) attending
fortnightly meetings; (b) the total number of contact groups and their distribution by gender
(men, women, mixed) and by typology of farmers (rich, poor, mixed); (c) the number of
demonstration plots and trial plots; (d) comparison of yields on demonstration plots and on
control plots; (e) the number of training sessions and monthly technology review meetings; (f)
the number of technical messages being disseminated; and (g) the number of field trials carried
out by researchers;
ii. assistance to the extension field staff in perforning the financial evaluation of the expected net
benefits of adopting the technologies extended to farners (a simple routine task not always well
performed at the moment), and to support the SOASP units in contracting and reviewing market
studies and crop processing project proposals. MINAGRI will recruit an economist to perform
these duties;
iii. external evaluation of project impact. Three methods of external impact evaluation will be
used: (a) specific ad hoc technology adoption case studies. Ten ad hoc technology adoption
case studies (total 4-year budget US$197,500) will be undertaken every year. These will be
relatively simple exercises, involving 7 to 10 working days each, and will be carried out by
independent professionals expert in PRA methodologies, either MINAGRI/MINEPIA staff or
private consultants. Villages will be selected on the basis of information collected by the
internal monitoring system. Within villages, a purposive sample of farmners to be interviewed
will be chosen, reflecting the social stratification of the village and the gender division of labor.
The case studies will be based on PRA methodologies, and will report in-depth information
about technology adoption, the reasons for adoption, the modifications introduced by the
adopting farmers, the reasons for rejection if this is the case, the farmers appreciation of the risk
involved in adopting a technology, and of how the technology has contributed to solving their
household livelihood problems; (b) beneficiaries' assessment studies, and (c) base line and
update surveys of agricultural production of a fixed sample of farmers;
iv. For the evaluation of the independent impact of research on project outcomes, DEPA will
contract a consultant to (a) interact with the various research stakeholders and arrive at a formal
list of impact indicators, (b) provide guidance to researchers on formulating monitoring
indicators for their research tasks, and (c) spell out the data requirements for a rigorous
evaluation of the impact of research. Consultant services will also be recruited to carry out
independent evaluations of the research projects financed under the Competitive Research
Grant Fund. Resources will be provided to MINAGRI under the project to contract the
implementation of the above to other specialized Govermment units or to private specialist
consultants. Supervision of this work will be undertaken by DEPA in collaboration with
DEC/MINEPIA;



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 45
Cameroon: Agrcultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
v. evaluation of the pilot projects detailed in par. 8 above. Terms of reference for the evaluation
will be developed with support from IDA/FIDA supervision missions and will be agreed prior
to the launching of the pilot schemes.
40.   A base-line survey of agricultural production has been started in 1998, covering about
2,000 families. The survey will be repeated using the same sample and the same methodology in
year 2000 and 2002. It is believed that this will provide an insight on the PNVA impact on
agricultural production. Each survey is estimated to cost US$100,000.
41.   A beneficiary assessment of the PNVA was carried out in 1997. Under the new project the
BA will be repeated in 1999 and in 2001. Each BA is expected to cost US$30,000.
42.   A Mid-Term Review (MTR) will be carried out under the direction of the DEPA, in
collaboration with DEC, no later than March 31, 2001 to evaluate project impact using the agreed
impact indicators referred to in Annex 1 and covering the following points, in addition to those
reviewed during annual reviews: (i) evaluation of the impact of pilot project experiences and
proposals for future development of the pilots; (ii) evaluation of the operation of the financial
management system; (iii) the results of the review of operations of MINAGRI and MINEPIA,
including proposed follow-up actions; (iv) the implementation of the rural sector strategy and action
plan relating thereto; and (v) assessment of the efficiency of the coordination system between
research and extension activities.
43.   US$197,500 has been included to meet the costs of further sectoral studies and public
expenditure priority ranking workshops required to strengthen the pipeline for public expenditure
and investment projects in support of the new agricultural sector policy of the rural development
Ministries.
Organization and Management of the Extension Coordination unit of MINAGRI
44.   The project will be carried out under the coordination of a national agricultural extension
program coordinator located within the existing structure of the Ministry of Agriculture's
Department of Agricultural Production, except for the 3 sub-components of the AfDB financed
Research component which is entrusted to IRAD. At central level, seven services (Cellules)
support the national coordinator, as follows:
a) Program monitoring;
b) Links with Agricultural Research;
c) Methods and Norms of Extension;
d) Training and Human Resource Development;
e) Seeds and Breeding Material;
f) Support to Farmers' Organizations and Linkages with Private Sector;
g) Administration and Finance.
45.   In any one of the 10 Provinces, the Extension Service is structured into 9 units (many
consisting of a single specialist) coordinated by the provincial PNVA Supervisor, an officer of the
MINAGRI or detached from MINEPIA directly responsible to the Provincial Delegate for
Agriculture, who represents the Minister of Agriculture in the Province. The nine Units are:
a) methods and norms;
b) training and human development;



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 46
Cameroon: Agicultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
c) liaison with agricultural research;
d) environment;
e) program monitoring unit;
f)  seed unit;
g) post harvest and product processing;
h) support to farmers' groups and market linkages development;
i)  administration and finance unit.
46.    The administrative level of the MINAGRI below the Province is the Agricultural Region, of
which there are 52. In each one of these, a Regional Supervisor coordinates the activities of
between four and six sector supervisors and supervises the work of five technical subject matter
specialists (SMS) and a Specialist in Farmers' Organizations and Links with the Private Sector as
follows:
a) Food crops and horticulture;
b) Plant protection;
c) Tree crops;
d) Seed and breeding material;
e) Animal production and fisheries;
f) SOASP.
47.    Below the regional level there are 233 sectors, each headed by a Sector Supervisor. This
officer coordinates the activities of the 1,700 AVZ, who are posted at the level of agricultural zones,
whose size varies according to the density of population within each zone.
48.    Programming of work and lines of command. The work plan of the Extension Staff is
set in accordance with the following steps:
i. the formulation of the work program begins with the participatory diagnostic work of the AVZ
whereby the production problems of different categories of farmers are identified in a
participatory way. Diagnostic work is a continuous task. SMSs and researchers are associated
and the research and training wrk programs are adjusted to reflect the results of the continuous
diagnosis;
ii. AVZs refer to the SMS and decision is taken on how to deal with the problems: if solutions are
available "off-the-shelf' a program of training and demonstration and regular follow up is
prepared for the AVZ to undertake. The action involves: forming groups of contact farmers
interested in the theme to be demonstrated to solve the problem, deciding on the fields in which
the demonstration is carried out, the role of farmers in the demonstration and definition of the
schedule of follow up visits with each group;
iii. In case there is no "off-the-shelf' response available, the process of contacting the research
staff starts. This involves the Liaison with Agricultural Research Unit at provincial level, and
eventually a contract is signed at Provincial Level (Provincial Supervisor, Head of the IRAD
station in the Province) with IRAD to undertake in-field research jointly with the extension
staff. These contracts are funded by resources allocated to the extension component at the
central level;
iv. If on-field research is not sufficient to solve the problem and on-station research related to the
theme identified through participatory diagnostic work is required, an on-station research



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 47
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
project will be formulated for funding under the competitive fund, and will follow a more
elaborate procedure;
v. All work plans are formulated by AVZ and Sector Supervisors and progress reviewed
constantly at the fortnightly meeting held at sector level. On a monthly basis, sector work plans
are reviewed with the SMS in a monthly meeting at the Region headquarters, chaired by the
Regional Supervisor. In turn, regional supervisors meet with provincial supervisors once a
month;
vi. The regular training program starts with the training of subject matter specialists at 2-day
Monthly Technology review meetings. Farmers also attend these sessions to ensure relevance
of themes to field conditions. The SMSs then train field staff at fortnightly training sessions.
49.   The work plans of the Sectors are consolidated by Region and then at provincial level. At
this level the Administration and Finance Unit prepares the annual Provincial budget which is
approved at the center and reviewed on six-monthly basis. The provincial budgets and the budgets
of the PNVA units not included in the Extension Division, (DEPA for example), are aggregated by
the Administration and Finance Services of the Division at central level.
Flow of Funds, Administration and Financial Control
50.   Administrative responsibility and financial management of agricultural extension is being
increasingly decentralized, enabling the regional extension units to function largely independently.
However, the investment budget (civil works contracts, purchase of office furniture and equipment,
and of vehicles on behalf of central units and peripheral units) is implemented centrally by the
Administration and Finance Service of the Extension Division. With respect to externally financed
items, the flow of funds for these items involves payments drawn on the Special Account of the
project opened at the CAA. This is a unit of the Ministry of Finance which handles all external
project funds. Funds allocated to national training, or to make payments under contracts with IRAD
at Provincial level are also released centrally.
51.   The Project Special Account with CAA is also used to handle funds allocated to operating
expenditure. However, these are channeled through 10 auxiliary revolving fund accounts opened
with commercial banks in each province. The CAA is responsible for processing loan withdrawal
documents, and for submitting those documents on a monthly basis to the Bank for replenishing the
Special Account. The auxiliary accounts to cover local expenditures by each of the 10 provincial
delegations of the Ministry of Agriculture have been operational for the past 6 years and will
continue to be the main source of funding of activities at the provincial level and below. On a
monthly basis, or more often if necessary, expenditure reports and an account reconciliation will be
sent to the CAA so that the expenditures paid at the regional level are consolidated into the
application for the monthly replenishment to the central special account. Arrangements for
providing support for Ministry of Livestock staff collaborating under the program will be managed
in the framework of the agreement signed between the two Ministries in September 1997.
52.   Recurrent expenditure allocations from the Government Budget are released through the
Provincial Treasurer at the Provincial level. This process is subject to delays and bureaucratic steps
which drastically reduce the funds actually available to extension front line operators and when
made available this is often not at the time when they are needed. The Government is formulating a
proposal of procedural reforms to solve this problem, which must be in place, tested and fully
operational within the first 18 months of the project life.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 48
Cameroon: Ag9icultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
Appendix I
Distribution of Farm Families and Agricultural Extension Zones
Provinces         Ext      Nord    Adam        Ouest    Nord    Centre        Sud        Est    Littoral    Sud         Total
Nord                aoua               Ouest                                              Ouest
Farrn families (1)   264,825   99,599   80,732   201,498   161,032   129,020    44,965   63,414   106,787    89,286    1,241,158
Ag. extension zones      230       140      115       217       185       253        104       141       111        147        1,643
Farm Faxnilies/AVZ     1,151      711       702       928       870       506        432      450        962       607          755
Sector Chiefs            29        29        17        25        24        34         13        18        17         19         215
Subject Matter            30       20        25        30        30        40         21       20         20        20          256
Specialists
Regional Supn              6        4         5         6         6         8          4         4         4          4          51
Provincial Supn            6        6         6         6         6         6          6         6         6         6           60
Central
Coordination
(1) As per data used for mid-term review LnL 3185-CM, 1995.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 49
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
ANNEX 3 - ESTIMATED PROGRAM COST
Table 3A
Project Component                                   Local                Foreign                Total
-US$ million-
A. Agricultural Extension                          15,497.3               8,479.2               23,976.6
B. Agricultural Research                            7,471.0               6,414.5               13,885.5
C. Training and Human
Resources Management                                2,434.5                1,150.0               3,584.5
D. Farmer Organization Support
and private sector linkages                           246.2                 170.1                 416.4
E. Village based participative
community development                                 288.2                  93.3                 381.5
F. Monitoring and Evaluation                          388.2                 179.5                 567.7
Total BASELINE COSTS
Physical Contingencies                              1,038.9                 558.2                1,597.2
Price Contingencies                                   875.0                 797.4                1,672.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                28,239.4              17,842.3               46,081.7
Table 3B - Components by Financiers
Government   World    African    Int'L Fund
Bank      Devel.       for
(IDA)     Fund    Agriculural
Dev.(FIDA)
A. Agricultural Extension                                       9,435.3    8,106.3                 6,328.6
National Agricultural Extension Program                     31.0      51.7                    123.4
Seed improvement                                          296.9      635.2                   423.4
Equipment and salaries of women AVZ                         66.2     637.9
Subtotal Agricultural Extension                                 9,829.4    9,431.1                 6,875.4
B. Agricultural Research
1. Research/Extension linkages                                                              3,285.4
2. Competitive Research Grants                                       978.6
3. Strengthening of IRAD Services                                             5,954.0
4. On-station research                                                        3,430.1
5. Training of IRAD staff                                                      923,0
Subtotal Agricultural Research                                              978.6  10,307.0        3,285.4
C. Training and Human Resources Management                         99.4    3,475.0                   323.4
D. Farmer Organization Support and Private Sector Linkages         14.4      438.1
E. Village-based participative community development               94.4      280.3                    31.0
F. Monitoring and Evaluation                                       84.3      534.6
Total Disbursement                               10,121.9   15,137.6  10,307.0      10,515.2



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 50
Cameroon: Agrcultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
ANNEX 4 - COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
(US$million in 1997 terms)
Present Value of Flows             Fiscal Impact
Economic       Financial        Taxes          Subsidies
Analysis       Analysis
Benefits                41,160         47,279
Costs                   24,925         31,338          4,339           N/A
Net Benefits            16,234         15,942
IER                      42%            27%            N/A             N/A
Main Assumptions
1.    The economic analysis takes account of the following variables, which influence the economic
cost benefit flow of the project: (i) the number of farmers benefiting directly from extension staff advice
- it has been assumed conservatively that 30% of Cameroonian farmers will benefit from the project, (ii)
incremental project benefits based on farm models for each of the main agro-ecological areas of the
country namely, the North (Extr8me Nord, Nord and Adamaoua provinces), the West (Nord-Ouest, Ouest
and Sud-Ouest provinces) and the South and East (Centre, Littoral, and Est provinces). The total base
costs, as derived from Costab, have been used to calculate both the financial and economic rates of
return. Full investment and recurrent costs for all project components (including Agricultural Research)
are used for the first four years of the project. Thereafter, recurrent costs of the Extension component are
used for the following six years. Full details are presented in the Technical Annexes to this report, which
are available in the project files. In the "without project" scenario, it is assumed that production and
output will continue to grow at a rate of 5% per annum, as a result of the continuing effects of FCFA
devaluation and other factors. The "with project" scenario assumes that production and yields will
increase by 10% as a result of the adoption of new technology by those farmers in direct contact with
extension staff. The net increases in farm revenue are assumed to be carried forward from one year to
the next. No benefits are derived for other farmers, who are not directly contacted by extension staff but
who can also expect to benefit from new technical messages, as they themselves test the techniques
adopted by their neighbors or members of the farmer contact groups. It is assumed that the new technical
messages will involve an increase of 6% per annum in production costs. Farm gate prices are based on
economic prices calculated from international commodity price projections taken from Commodity
Prices and the Developing Countries, IBRD, May 1997, with the exception of the prices of niebe and
tomatoes, which are based on local market prices.
2.    To take account of the potential impact of increased production on the local market, "with
project" farm gate prices for commodities produced for the local market (maize, groundnuts, tomatoes,
niebe) have been marked down by 6%, in both the economic and financial analysis.
3.    The results of the sensitivity analysis on the IER carried out by changing one of the above
variables by varying proportions is present in the Table below:



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 51
Cameroon: Agncultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
Sensitivity Analysis
Impact on Project IER Resulting from Changes in Key Assumptions
% age changes in project assumptions      -30%  -20%  -10%    0   +10%  +20%   +30%
IER on base case assumptions 1/                               42%                 =
Change in # of farmers contacted by AVZ   8%    21%   28%   42%  48%   55%    63%
Change in production costs                74%   63%   52%   42%  29%   17%    3%
Change in local market prices    =               -5%   21%   42%  60%   79%    99%
1/Base case assumptions include:
- Increases in farm production take place at a rate of 5% pa in the "Without project scenario".
- Farm gate prices "with project" have been discounted by 6% to allow for possible impact of
increased volume of production on local market prices.
- "With project" improvements in production based on 10% increase in yields or production
resulting from adoption of improved technology.
- "With project" production costs assumed to involve a 6% increase in production costsfollowing
adoption of improved practices.
- Extension staff contact with 30% of all farmers.
4.     The sensitivity analysis shows that the internal economic return is: (a) moderately sensitive to a
change in local market prices (it requires a 15% change in local market price assumptions to reduce the
IER to marginally acceptable levels); and (b) relatively insensitive to changes in production costs and in
the number of farmers contacted by extension staff (it requires approximately a 25% increase in
production costs and a reduction of more than 25% in the levels of farmers contacted by extension staff
for the IER to fall to marginally acceptable levels.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 52
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
ANNEX 5 - FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Table 5A (US$'000s in 1998 terms)
Implementation Period            Operational
Period
98199     99/00      00/01      01/02
Project Costs
Investment Costs                            9,101.8   6,480.2    7,448.2   6,259.9      5 years
Recurrent Costs                             3,970.0   4,088.7    4,280.8   4,452.1    15 years
Total                               13,071.8  10,568.9   11,729.0  10,712.0
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
IDA                                                       15.1 (32%)                    5 years
IFAD                                                      10.6 (23%)                    5 years
FAD                                                       10.3 (22%)                    5 years
Government                                                10.1 (22%)                    5 years
Total                                            46.1 (100%)
Table 5B - Project Impact on MINAGRI Budget (US$millions)
1997/98    1998/99   1999/00    2000/01
PIP for Agriculture and Livestock                              16.0       17.0       16.8       16.8
Recurrent budget for Agriculture and Livestock 1/              32.8       34.5       36.2       38.0
Total public expenditure for Agriculture/Livestock sectors     48.8       51.5       53.0       54.8
Total project cost 2/                                           9.6        7.5       9.9         7.8
Project cost as % of total ag. sector public expenditure       20%        14%        19%        14%
Government contribution to project costs                        2.7        2.1       2.8         2.2
Government contribution as % of recurrent budget                8%         6%        8%          6%
1/ Mission projection beyond 199 7/98
2/ Costs directly related to Minagri/Minepia budgets (not including IRAD direct costs)
The relatively low level of the contribution by the government as an overall proportion of total public
expenditure in the agricultural sectors demonstrates that there is clearly the capacity to meet the
counterpart costs of the project and to ensure longer term financial sustainability.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 53
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
ANNEX 6 - PROJECT PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement
1.    Procurement Experience. Procurement under the previous project (Ln. 3185-CM) has been
slow. Staff of the National Coordination Unit have adopted standard Bank guidelines and procurement
procedures for the past three years. However, procurement processing under the Government regulations
involving a central procurement unit in the Ministry of Agriculture and a separate procurement office in
the Ministry of Finance has been responsible for delays and the procurement problems. Most have been
due to unfamiliarity of non-project staff with the Bank's guidelines. As a consequence, a major training
effort has been launched to provide training for those who are likely to be involved in procurement
processing and in decisions of major tender awards. In November 1998, staff from the project and from
the central Directorate for General Administration of the Ministry of Agriculture will attend procurement
training at CESAG in Senegal. Later in 1999, in-country training in procurement will be organized for
national staff as part of a broader effort to be organized by the Bank to strengthen procurement capacity.
2.    Procurement of civil works and goods will be carried out according to procedures set forth in
the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (dated January 1995, revised
January and August 1996 and September 1997). Procurement of consulting services will follow the
Bank's guidelines dated January 1997 revised in September 1997. A procurement schedule is presented
as an appendix to the Project Implementation Manual. The main project procurement categories, their
estimated costs and methods of procurement are summarized in Tables 6A and 6B, with those amounts to
be funded by IDA included in brackets.
3.    Civil Works. The main item of civil works will be the rehabilitation of two or three agricultural
colleges during the third and fourth year of the project. At an estimated cost of US$100,000 each, the
renovation of buildings and annexes for each college is not likely to attract outside firms and thus the
procurement of these works will be subject to national competitive bidding (NCB). Other rehabilitation
works of regional and district agricultural extension offices is not expected to exceed US$40,000 per
building and will also be carried out using NCB, under procedures acceptable to IDA. The total cost of
individual contracts carried out under NCB procedures will not exceed US$900,000, of which IFAD will
finance US$750,000, the balance being funded by the Government.
4.    Goods financed under the project include vehicles, motorcycles and spare parts, office furniture,
outfitting and extension materials, demonstration equipment and teaching tools. Of the total amount
subject to ICB (US$6.8 million), US$1.8 million equivalent will be funded by IDA. Most of these goods,
particularly vehicles and motorcycles would be grouped into packages costing more than US$100,000
equivalent and procured through International Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB). Where ICB
procedures are used, standard bidding documents developed by IDA will be used, and a preferential
margin of 15%, or the applilcable customs duty, whichever is the lower, over the c.i.f. prices of competing
goods, would be given to bids offering domestically manufactured goods, in the evaluation of bids, in
accordance with the Procurement Guidelines. Contracts for materials and furniture not exceeding
US$100,000 and totaling US$500,000, required over a period of time and available locally at competitive
prices, for which foreign firms would not be interested, would be procured by NCB under procedures
acceptable to IDA. The NCB document to be used for local bidding should be cleared by the Bank prior
to the first contract for local bidding. Goods contracts estimated at US$20,000 each or less and not
exceeding US$600,000 in aggregate would be procured by national shopping, of which IDA will finance
US$300,000. Procurement would be spread over the four years of the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 54
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
Table 6A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                        Procurement Method                         (including
contingencies)
ICB          NCB           Other         N.B.F
1. Works
I _______  _  1   0.9      1             1                   0.9
l__ __ __ __ ___ __ _ _   __  ((0.7))  _   _                ((0.7))
2. Goods
6.8           0.5           0.6                          8.0
(1.8)        (0.4)         (0.4)                        (2.7)
((3.3))    _ X                     X                    ((3.3))
3. Training
3.8                          3.8
(3.8)                       (3.8)
4. Research Contracts
1                  4.3                          4.3
1  _______ __  ___ ____ ((3.3))  =            ((3.3))
5. Operating costs
16.3                        16.3
(5.4)                       (5.4)
((3.3))                     ((3.3))
6. Studies, Consultants and Audits
_________   _________   2.5    j  _    _  _ _2.5
_______ __  ___ ______ (2.3)      _   _ _ _         (2.3)
7. AfDB Funded Research                      l             l             l            l
l     |             1 ~~~~~10.3 (a) l   10.3
Total                             6.8           1.5          27.5        10.3 (a) |       46.1
(1.8)        (0.5)         (12.8)                       (15.1)
((3.3))      ((0.7))       ((6.6))                      ((10.6))
Note: ICB = International Competitive Bidding; NCB = National Competitive Bidding, N.B.F. = Not Bank-
financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit;
Figures in double parenthesis are the amounts to be cofinanced by IFAD on a parallel financing basis,
supervised by IDA and following Bank Procurement Guidelines subject to eligibility of IFAD member
countries.
(a) Cofinanced in parallel by the African Development Fund; procured in accordance with AfDB regulations;
5.      Under NCB procedures, the following criteria will be respected:  (i) foreign firms will not be
excluded if interested; (ii) bid evaluation and award criteria will be specified in the bidding documents
and the award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder; (iii) a minimum of 30 days bidding time will



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 55
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
be allowed for national competitive bidding; (iv) no negotiations with bidders will be held without
consulting the Bank; and (v) and the margin of preference for domestically manufactured goods will only
be allowed for contracts let under international competitive bidding procedure.
6.     Consultancies and Training. The details of the training program are presented in the Technical
Annexes to this document. As part of the annual work program, the PNVA would submit for IDA review
and approval annual training and study tour programs for each of the workshops and training courses
envisaged. From the second year and for successive years, the program would include an evaluation of
the previous year's training program.
7.    Contracts for short term consultants (including auditors and external trainers) to be hired under
the project would be awarded following the Bank's guidelines dated January 1997 (revised in September
1997), with terms of reference, selection procedures and requests for proposals being satisfactory to IDA.
No external long term consultants are envisaged.
8.     Selection of consultants will normally be addressed through competition among qualified short-
listed firms in which the selection will be based both on the quality of the proposal and on the cost of the
services to be provided. Short-lists for contracts estimated under US$100,000 may be comprised entirely
of national consultants if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at
competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from
consideration. The standard Letter of Invitation and Form of Contracts as developed by the Bank will be
used for appointment of consultants. Audit services, which are of a standard nature will use least cost
selection criteria.. Research programs under the Competitive Grants Fund will be contracted by the
Ministry of Agriculture to IRAD and other organizations, such as universities and regional institutes,
under a "Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications", which should be satisfactory to IDA. Criteria
for use of such funds should include (i) client responsiveness, either as a priority problem identified by
farmers or as a topic of national interest; (ii) estimation of potential economic and financial benefits; (iii)
identification of beneficiaries; (iv) definition of means whereby benefits will be disseminated; and (v)
identification of similar work already carried out by the potential grantee. Research contracts at the
provincial level in respect of field diagnosis, training of SMS and applied research to be entered into
between the Ministry of Agriculture and which are not expected to cost more than $50,000 will be
managed as sole source contracts, renewable every six months on the basis of satisfactory performance,
as evaluated by the Ministry of Agriculture and IDA. Overheads under these contracts should not
account for more than 15%. Services provided by field agents and supervisory staff other than those
provided by civil servants (e.g., by NGOs) will also be the subject of "Service Delivery Contracts".
Services for lectures and small studies, which can be delivered by individual consultants will be selected
through comparison of qualifications among those expressing interest in the assignment or approached
directly. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, i.e., those not exceeding six
months, carried out by individual consultants. The Government has been briefed during negotiations
about the special features of the revised guidelines, in particular with regards to advertisement and public
bid opening.
9.    Prior Review Thresholds. Contracts for goods and works in an amount of US$100,000
equivalent and above and for consulting services involving US$100,000 or more for consulting firms and
US$50,000 or more for individuals will be subjet to prior review procedures of IDA. The review process
would cover 76% of the total value of the amount contracted for goods and 66% of the amount
contracted for civil works. Selective post-review of contracts awarded below the threshold levels will
apply to about one in three contracts. Draft standard bidding documents for NCB will be reviewed and
agreed upon with IDA. The Bank will review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed
by the Borrower. For consultants contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more,



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 56
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
opening of the financial envelopes will not take place before receiving the Bank's no-objection to the
technical evaluation. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms
and individuals estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent respectively.
Table 6B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contracts Subject to
Expenditure         Contract Value          Procurement           Prior Review
Category             (Threshold)             Method
(US $ thousands)
1. Works              <$100,000             NCB                   First contract, and all
in excess of $100,000
2. Goods              >$100,000             ICB                    All  in  excess  of
$100,000
<$100,000 and         NCB                   First NCB contract
>$20,000                                    regardless of amount
<$20,000              Local purchase        None
3. Contracts with                           Direct contracting or First contract each year
private partners and                     award of contract after for private partners
IRAD                                     the selection process
agreed with IDA/IFAD
4. Consultants        >$200,000             firms/all              all   prior   review,
included    technical
evaluation
<$200,000 and         firms/all             all prior review
>$100,000
<$100,000             firms/all             no prior review
>$50,000              individual            all prior review
<$50,000              individual            no prior review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $4.5 million
10.   Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower;
b) comprehensive half-yearly reports to IDA by the Borrower indicating:
i. updated cost estimates for individual contracts and for the total project, including best estimates
of allowances for physical and price contingencies;
ii. revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award and
completion time for individual contracts; and
iii. compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 57
Cameroon: Agncuftural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
Disbursement
11.   The IDA Credit is expected to be effective by end December 1998 and the project will run over
the following four years. Disbursements are expected to continue over 4Y2 years. Cofinancing with IFAD
will be assured on the basis of parallel financing.
12.   Special Account (denominated in CFA francs).
Authorized allocation of 800 million CFA, the equivalent of US$1,400,000. Full amount to be deposited
upon effectiveness. Calculation of authorized allocation is as follows:
Average Monthly     Three Month
Description                    Expenditure per      Cash Flow
Cost Center          (US$)
Extension activities of 10 provincial delegations  FCFA  10,000,000        600,000
Research  activities subcontracted  to  IRAD's  10   FCFA   3,300,000      200,000
provincial centers
Central PNVA coordination unit                   FCFA 100,000,000          600,000
Total                                                       1,400,000
13.   The provincial delegations of Agriculture will continue to maintain separate provincial accounts
to meet operational expenses of extension and supervisory staff. The opening balance of each auxiliary
account will respect the new levels agreed under the previous project (30 million FCFA for Adamaoua,
Est, Littoral, Nord, Sud and Sud-Ouest provinces, 40 million FCFA for the Nord-Ouest and Ouest
provinces and 50 million FCFA for the Centre province).
14.   No direct procurement will be managed by the provincial delegations and statements of
expenditure will be sent to the National Coordination office for verification and onward transmission to
the CAA. Expenditures should be submitted for reimbursement at least once per month or more
frequently if necessary, through the CAA. The account may be used to pay for expenditures in either
local currency or foreign exchange through the commercial banking system, against any category of
eligible expenditure. All expenditures less than 10% of the initial deposit would be paid from the special
account. All replenishments should be fully documented except in the case where Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) are authorized. Monthly bank statements and reconciliation of the Special Account
statement would accompany replenishment requests. For direct payment by IDA, minimum application
amount should be above 20% of Special Account deposit.
15.   Annual Budget Approval. Annual agreement will be reached between the Bank, other donors,
the Ministry of Agriculture and the CAA on an annual budget. Disbursement requests in conformity with
the main expenditure items under this budget will be submitted to the IDA for payment without specific
non-objection letters, except for expenditures related to contracts falling above the non-objection
thresholds. Expenses related to contracts, below the prior review or clearance thresholds, which represent
significant changes in the annual budget will be required to be submitted for special non-objection of the
Bank.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 58
Cameroon: Agrcultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
Table 6C - Disbursement of IDA Credit
(US$ thousands, net of taxes and duties)
Category                Amount       Percentage Financed by IDA
(1) Agricultural Research                1,000  100%
(2) Vehicles and Equipment (excluding   2,600  100% foreign and 85% local
motorcycles)
(3) Studies, audits and consulting services  1,800  100%
(4) Operating Costs                     5,400  100% up to US$2.3 million and 35%
thereafter
(5) Training                            3,600  100%
(6) Unallocated                           700
Total Project Costs             15,100
16.   The Credit closing date is fixed as June 30, 2003 which provides four and a half years for the
disbursement of expenditure under this four year project. The disbursement categories for the Credit are
presented in Table 6C above. The annual work program will be subject to approval by all financiers.
The proportion of the annual work program to be financed by IDA and IFAD will be decided each year
after review and discussion of the proposed budget by the Ministry of Agriculture and IRAD.
Disbursement is expected to proceed at a quicker pace than that of the standard disbursement profiles,
given the experience of the project coordination team with Bank procedures and the relatively
straightforward nature of expenses which will be funded. In addition, most of the vehicles and
motorcycles will be procured in the first two years of the project. The expected disbursement profile is
given in Table 6D below. Thirty six months after Credit Effectiveness, if the experience of this phase of
the project continues to be satisfactory, preparation will begin of a further phase to provide continued
support to the national extension program.
Table 6D - Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$million)
FY99 FYOO FYO1 FY02 FY03
Annual                   2.5    4.2    3.2    3.4    1.9
Cumulative               2.5    6.7    9.9   13.3   15.1
Percentage                18     45      67     90    100
17.   Disbursement by IDA against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Appropriate arrangements
for accounting and auditing are in place and the Ministry of Agriculture possesses the ability to process
and maintain SOE documentation in a manner satisfactory to IDA. The financial management unit of the
sub-Directorate for Agricultural Extension would claim reimbursement on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOEs) for: (i) civil works costing less than US$100,000 equivalent (Disbursement



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 59
Cameroon: Agricuftural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
Category II); (ii) goods contracts less than US$100,000; (iii) contracts with consulting firms valued at
less than US$100,000; (iv) contracts with individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 (including
amendments); and (v) all operating costs and training.
18.    The office of the Director of Agricultural Production and the offices of the Provincial delegates
of agriculture (for the provincial auxiliary accounts) will retain all the relevant supporting documentation
for reimbursement claims under SOEs for inspection by supervision missions. During the course of the
annual audit of the project's accounts, the auditor will certify that all expenditures claimed under SOEs
during the year have been properly incurred for the project.
Financial Management
19.    The project will make a significant contribution to increasing the degree of financial autonomy of
the provincial and departmental delegations of the Ministry of Agriculture. Guidelines for financial
management and a simple budget monitoring system were introduced in each of the provincial
delegations of Agriculture under the previous phase of the project. The financial management control
unit, which was set up under the first phase of the program in support of the national Director of
Agricultural Extension, will continue regular training of provincial level staff during the course of the
next phase. Existing budgeting and accounting procedures will be strengthened by the introduction of a
simple management information system, developed for agricultural extension and research projects under
other Bank projects elsewhere in Africa (e.g., in Madagascar), which will facilitate budget preparation,
financial monitoring and monitoring of cost effectiveness and which will respond to the project's
operational and management information requirements. It is also proposed to introduce double entry and
accruals based accounting as recommended under IASC's6 guidelines applicable to public accounting.
The system's architecture will be based on the concept of integrated financial management, capturing
accounting data at source and once only. Appropriate PC based computer software will be used to
support the system. Short term consultants might be required to assist in the introduction of these
improvements, which will begin in 1999.
20.    The financial arrangements under the first extension project (Ln. 3185-CM) have generally
followed the Government procedures (as applied by the Ministry of Agriculture) with some
modifications to conform to the Bank procedures for disbursements under SOEs. These will be
continued under the next phase of the project, with the following proposed improvements:
21.    Accounting at the Provincial Levels. While the current procedures for incurring and recording of
PNVA expenditures at the provincial levels are simple and clearly set forth, these have not been
consistently adhered to. Under the current procedures each province is expected to submit requests for
reimbursement of expenses to the CAA (via the Central Coordination Unit of PNVA in Yaounde) but
such submissions have been irregular. The cumulative effect of such irregularities leads to provincial
level special accounts being blocked by constant return of unsatisfactory withdrawal requests, thus
jeopardizing project activities. To correct these problems under the next phase of project funding:
a) supervision from the central financial management unit of the Ministry of Agriculture will be
intensified to ensure at least 2 missions per province per year. During these visits, procedures for
incurring expenditures will be verified to ensure respect and adequate recording. The unit will need
to be ready to recommend disciplinary measures against non-performing staff, particularly those with
financial and fiduciary responsibilities;
6   International Accounting Standards Committee



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 60
Cameroon: Agwcultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
b) requests for reimbursement of special accounts in the provinces will be submitted at least once, if not
twice, a month.;
c) reconciliation of provincial funds with bank balances and outstanding replenishments will be carried
out once a month;
d) if the above procedures are followed, the level of the revolving fund for the provincial accounts if
fixed at three months of expenditure should be adequate to ensure a smooth level of operations.
22.    Special Account at the CAA. The main project special account will continue to be maintained in
a commercial bank account under the control of the CAA. The system has worked reasonably well to
date but could be improved by the following:
a) Bank statements must be provided more promptly by the commercial bank to the CAA and to the
project financial management staff. The CAA should submit withdrawal request to the Bank not less
than once a month;
b) The financial control unit of the project will monitor closely the monthly submission withdrawal
requests to the Bank;
c) To meet the increased financial activity under the project, the level of the Special Account will be set
at US$1,400,000 or the equivalent of three months' cash flow for the project.
23.   Funding under the project is included to meet the costs of the annual audit of accounts. Funding
has also been included for the first three years of the project to enable the Ministry of Agriculture to
continue to employ an external financial control team.  However, in the interests of longer term
sustainability, the Ministry should assume responsibility for the financial control of the activities of the
national program. Thus beyond the third year of the project, funding for short term financial consultants
only has been included.
24.   Financial Management of Research Activities. To reinforce the relationship of IRAD as a
supplier of services to extension, six-monthly contracts will be drawn up at the provincial level between
the provincial agricultural services and IRAD, which will define the roles and responsibilities of each
party. These contracts will cover a program of work for 6 months and be renewed by agreement of both
parties, on the basis of satisfactory performance. Lump sum payments for services will be released to
IRAD's provincial representations by the CAA at the request of the Directorate for Agricultural
Production, to cover 3 months' activities at a time, on confirmation of the agreement of the provincial
agricultural team.
Project Accounts and Audits
25.   Accounting. The project's key functional processes, budgeting, purchasing, paying, recording
and reporting have been designed to operate in line with the Government of Cameroon's decision to
decentralize day to day management of operations to the provincial level. Financial and administrative
functions will be represented at two levels, central and provincial, with the lowest management unit being
the agricultural extension sector. Functional relations between the national extension Director's financial
controller and the provincial management centers will be managed according to procedures, which have
been drawn up by the financial controller's office. Their application will be monitored by staff of the
financial controller's office, who will be required to travel to visit each province at least twice a year.
Reports of these visits will be submitted to the national Director of Agricultural Extension. The financial
control staff will also either provide or coordinate training in financial management and administration
for financial staff at the provincial level.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 61
Cameroon: Agicultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
26.   Audit. The project's accounts will be audited, according to IASC accounting guidelines by
private audit firms recruited under NCB procedures, having demonstrated professional training and
applying auditing standards recognized under IASC's auditing guidelines. Financial reporting standards
will be in conformity with recent Bank's guidelines on financial statements and norms of the IASC.
Financial statements submitted for auditing will comprise as a minimum, a statement of net position
(balance sheet equivalent), a source and application of funds, a summary budget execution statement and
a summary statement on the IDA Special Account. Audit reports in the long form will be submitted
within six months of the end of the fiscal year to which they refer. Auditors will be contracted by the
project prior to effectiveness.
27.   An annual work program incorporating the annual training program, details of procurement and
other agreed project details would be prepared and submitted to IDA for comments and approval by the
end of April each year.
28.   Reports on project implementation progress would be submitted to IDA semi-annually at the end
of April and at the end of November each year. The April report would be submitted to coincide with
discussion of the draft annual work program for the following year.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 62
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
ANNEX 7 - PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
A. Project Budget (US$'000)                 Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$125,000               $324,000
B. Project Schedule                         Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)3                     20
First Bank Mission (identification)     07/96                   7/11/96
Appraisal Mission departure              11/9/96                4/10/97
Negotiations                             1/15/97                07/28/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness            5/30/97                12/31/98
Prepared by: Staff of the Ministry of Agriculture's PNVA, DPA, DOA, Ministry of Livestock, Ministry
of Scientific Research and IRAD.
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Christopher Trapman, Bhagwanti Khushalani, Jan
Weetjens, Jacques Fremy, Ivar Serejski, Vishva Bindlish, Clotilde Ndomb, Abdul Haji, Harry Palmier;
Romano Pantanali (IFAD) contributed to the final drafting of the PAD.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 63
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
ANNEX 8 - DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
A. Project Implementation Manual
Ministbre de l'Agriculture - Direction de la Production Agricole - Programme National de Vulgarisation
Agricole - Manuel d'Execution du Projet D'Appui aux Programmes Nationaux de Vulgarisation et
Recherche Agricole - mars 1998.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Detailed Project Costs Tables
Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis - Detailed Tables
Financial Analysis - Detailed Tables
C. Other
Evaluation Environnementale - SBMCG pour le Ministbre de l'Agriculture/PNVA - juin 1997
Presentation de la Structure et de l'Organisation du PNVA dans les Provinces - Ministbre de P'Agriculture
Impact du PNVA: Evaluation par les Bdneficiaries - Michel Bakuzakundi, Consultant - juillet 1997
Actes de l'Atelier de Programmation des Actions d'Appui aux Programmes Nationaux de Vulgarisation et
Recherche Agricoles, Ngaoundere 29-9-96 -- 4-10-96
Programme National de Vulgarisation AgricoleNVolet Recherche - Programmes Provinciaux Conjoints
d'Activites - IRAD mai 1997
Analyse de l'Impact du PNVFA - Rapport Final - janvier 1995 - ACA Investment and Resource
Mobilization Partners.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 64
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
ANNEX 9 - STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
As of June 30, 1998
Loan      Fiscal Year         Purpose           Bank       IDA      Undisbursed    Closing
Credit No.                                                                             Date
31850        1990         Ag. Ext. Training       19.0                 0.0           12/31/98
3185A        1990         Ag. Ext. Training       2.0                  2.0           12/31/98
33880        1992         Food Security           22.1                10.6          12/31/98
3388A        1992         Food Security           1.5                  1.5           12/31/98
26840        1995         Health/Fert/Nutrition   43.0                 33.5          06/30/01
27030        1995         Transport Sector T.A.             10.2       2.6           06/30/98
28130        1996         SAC II                            150.0      0.05          03/31/98
28132        1997         SAC II                            25.2       0.00          03/31/98
28133        1998         SAC II                            18.1       0.00          01/21/99
28690        1996         Transport Sector                  60.7       54.5          12/31/02
28820        1996         PE/TA                             12.6       9.7           12/31/99
P8820        1995        Infrastructure Work TA             0.4        0.22          09/30/98
P9010        1995         Basic Ed. Improv. Proj.           0.5        0.00          06/30/98
P9011        1997         Basic Ed. Improv. Proj.           0.2        0.09          06/30/98
P9350        1995         TD/CM Pipeline                    1.0        0.75          06/30/99
Total                   87.6      278.9      115.51



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                     Page 65
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
ANNEX 10 - CAMEROON AT A GLANCE
:Sub..                   .     .
PovERTry and SOCIAL:                                   -:aharan    16ow-
CeNeW6i   .:.sAfrica  Income9      Development diamond'
Population mkI,- 996 (mrlkk,s)                       137        6600    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                          I610         490      500Lieepcac
ON P 1 99(bftl~ US$)                                  8.4      _2941   1 601
Aveargle annual growth, 1890-956
population 2%)                                          9       2.7      1.7      GNP                             Gross
:Laibor force %)3.1                                              2.6      1.7     prprmy
Mo1at recent estimate (latest ymea avafifable since 1969)~                        capfta                      enrollment
Poverty: headcoUnt kidea (96 of populalatbnJ            .         -.       -
Urban population f9id alplouation)                     45:       31       29
Life expectancy at bkirt (year)                 .. 67            02       63
Infant mortality(pe0r. 1,000 live bkr*_~               56        92''::69                  Acess to safe water
CNid:rmalnutrition (96of cNAkivW',under 9)             14
Accesis to safe water (96 of popuialat--~41                      47 ..53
illiteracy (96 oFoufk   ag  5                          37        43-Cameroon
Grossprimraryenrotlment (%ofsdotaepqpu1ation)::        69.. 80 : 72      1005
male                                                93         78      12
Female                                               84        65       9       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
KEY EC-ONOMIC RATIOS end LONG-TERFATRENOS
1976    1986"      1996      98
Economic ratlos*
GDP (b/imsi US$)                            .2.8      A.1      8.0       9.0
Gross dom~estic irwestment/GOP.:            20.0:   249        14.5    116.11
:Exports of goods and services/GOP          22.7   ..334    -25.9:   23.9Opnesoecom
Grossclomestic ssvings/GDOP                 17.1 :+26.8        20.8     19.4
Gross national isavings/C)OP                12.1     209        12.4    13.7
.Current accouint balanc/O                   80       -.        2.1      -2A.4
Interest payments/GOP                        00       17         2.1      17      Saigs                       Investment
Total debtIGOP                              15.3    36.2.   .115.6   103.2
:Total debt service/exports                  6.8    15.5        40.9:.  381.6
Present value of debt/GOP                      .              107.9:   94.1.
Present valueo  et550t                                  .      0.       7,                    Indebtedness
1976-86  1966-96  1986  1986 19611746
(average  "anna gr-Wh)                                                                      Cmro
GNP pier capita                     1.7   ~0.3 .. 1.A0          31.9~   i3.3o-nmru
Elxorts of goods and service       18.1      2.0     -11.8      8.3::  3.6'
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(96 of GDP)                                 1976    11986      1996    198        Growth rates of outputeand investm1ent(%
Agriculture                                 29.1    22.1       42.5    44.3       30 
Industry                                    18.2    36.8       25.3    24.3    2,~
Manufacturing                             10.3      11.8      10.8    10.9       0
Services                                    52.6    41.1       32.2    31.5    .109a
-21)
Private consumption                         72.0    64.2       70.8    72.7    -30 
General government consumption              10.9      9.0       8.6      7.8                 _GDI             GD
Imports of goods and services               25.5    31.6       19.7    20.6     _________________
1976-86  1986-86      1996    1986
(average  ualria groWth)                                                          Growth rates of exporte and knports (%)
Agriculture                                  4.9      0.7       2.0      5.0      20 -
Industry                                    18.4    -5.5       -0.4      5.5
Manufacturing                              13.8    -1.0        2.4      7.7     15-
Services                                     6.3    -3.5        6.6      4.7        _
Private consumption                          5.5    -3.1        7.2      7.8    .1             9
General government consumption               6.8    -4.7        0.9    -4.2
Gross domestic investmrent                   1.7    -8.0       -6.6    12.8    -20
Imports of goodsaand services               10.8    -1.2       -0.7    13.2                -Epot  --4-Imporss
Gross national product                       4.1      2.4        1.9     7.1    ____________________
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                   Page 66
Cameroon: Agricultural Extension and Research Programs Support Project
Cameroon
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1S86      1896    1986
Domestic prics                                                                  hIflation (%j
(96 change)                                                                     30
Consumer prices                            13.6    11.5       26.9      6.4     20
Implicit GDP deflator                       6.0    112        17.0      45       10
Govemment finance                                                                o ' 0
(96 of GDP)                                                                             Si   92 9s
Current revenue                                     21.0      12.9    14.4    -10
Current budget balance                               9.5      -3.8    -1.9                    GDP def. _    cpI
Overall surplus/deficit                             -1.6       -4.9    -2.8
TRADE
1975    1886      1896    1996
(millions US$)                                                                  Export and Import levels (mIll. USS)
Total exports (fob)                         512    2,339     1,662    1,721     2So0
Fuel                                         .    1,535      454      330      2
Cocoa                                              226       256      276
Manufactures                                       126       137      192      1      )                    I
Total imports (cif)                                1,231     1,392    1,483      1,00
Food                                         ..     92       222      248
Fuel and energy                                                8 
Capital goods                               ..    382        460      440
Export prce index (1987=100)                         126       121      121           90  91  92  93  94  s5  96
Import price index (1987=100)                         96        81       83                mExports    aImports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                            131       149      146    _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986       1996    1996
(mi/liaS US$j                                                                    Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               648    2,725     2,059    2,159      2
Imports of goods and services               730    2,573     1,572    1,857
Resource balance                            -82      153       488      302      0        1         9
Net income                                 -202    -488       -668    -595   |-
Netcurrenttransfers                          62       10         9       74   |4
Current account balance,                                                         4 
before official capital transfers        -221    -325        -171    -220
Financing items (net)                       203      363       185      302
Changes in net reserves                      18      -38       -13      -82    -10 -
MWemo:II
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           ..       0        13       13
Conversion rate (AwxbVS$)                 2224    471.1      518.6   501.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millions US$)                                                                  Composition of total debt, 1996 (mil.l US$ |
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        420    2,946     9,203    9,323
IBRD                                       50      287       639      520                 G      A
IDA                                        50      227       443      513                1198   576    B
Total debt service                           45      432       863      861                                 136
IBRDO                                                5       14        2
IDA                                                  3                  8
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             0        0         0        0
Official creditors                         56       94      -195      100
Private creditors                          48    -253        -94    -133                       z
Foreign direct investment                   0        0         0        0                     D
Portfolio equity                            0        0         0        0                    6768
World Bank program
Commitments                                22      159        86      254      A - IBRD                   E - Bibteral
Disbursements                              37       50        68      163      B - IDA    D - Other mutiateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        0       16        92       93      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                  37       34       -24       70   1                           _
Interest payments                           4       22        56       51
Net transfers                              33       12       -80       19
Development Economics                                                                                            8/21/97



MALI j                                        20                         12
NIGER                                               T )      p,\_-l b,                               V-
-  C .         Mop Deo g.. U- .T The Wold Bo\
>       t     /--      - t'\          j                    t CHAD  (SUDAN   .T.eobo,o8o.. de .onoej
2.            C~~~~~~~~~~~        -)  ~ ~~l, ,doO-o-l,T-oohoo-
* u!           j .                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~toos mop do top Imp OD he 50' r  
._   h           {                   t             The~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b Woldd 8-nL G-opo, , grn   
BENIN2                             /                                Too,deIGoospo,,.of   morh
10  52                        /  _                        1           0 eJoSem'r of morpu tooe, 
NIGERIA       K. (                        * .  )-Ko.ser                                                                                             2
0      o      8020    20     OCIS              {~ET
i   / CMERON      CENTRAL AFRICAN REP                   2      4       8 0  12        o                                       CHAD
CAMERODON               >        e 
EQUATORIAL I                                                                                                    /
GUINEAS       --                                                                                              Mote
SAGOE                                       GEM  EP 
AND PRINCIPE                 ('CN NGO          OF
&                      KCGNGG~~ ~ /       GE, 'MARUI                                                             f'ooc
GABGN   S                 ONGNOG                                                         OGO~Mo
0    .                   20
-10'  S -'
CAMEROON                                                                       e   -
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH                                                               I
PROGRAMS SUPPORT PROJECT
*    REGIONAL RESEARCH CENTERS                                                C.Groo\
*    MULTI COMMODITY RESEARCH STATION                             ,'  GAROUA                     N.
A    SPECIALIZED RESEARCH STATION
B-ec  PROVINCIAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICE CENTER                      )
o    SELECTED TOWNS                                                              NORD
*    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                  *PoI
6g   PROVINCE CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                 K             -
E-                            PAVED ROADS
_-     UNPAVED ROADS                                               '
IRAILROADS                                                       ---i-          .    ' -                     .-.--
R.VERS                                    /                          !     MongoeIl        1                   .
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                     7         T,godre0--               * geourdere       0                   C
---  INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES                       /                                  WARMA
AI ,E I       ,, I                    I               ADAM    OUA                               --   I
NIGERIA                ,,/-i-_---           \t            ( Ronopo                                                   .'         J
NOW  -                                   I 
j/      2          O0UEST            A             A Cf~~ -,                                                 , _0-'T
V     AMBU                                                     A-.
6              ,          lbnw                    -'                                        r                                                                      6
rffi .             tB~omel; 2000          U                                                             .s
N901                                                                                                Nd .k.SP PmorySooI  |
(                DStoo.g       *     *FGL2VORGT, 
NgU,               -    oloom         $                                    /D                      NdoLoyo /               CENTRAL
Mr*9  ndembo                                                                              R CENrRE   8'  elobo      |             AFRICAN
OLISTCENTRE
C'&eofmoooeo.//         ~    ..                 Re o                 rag                
,e5NJOMBEYb)S   (_   .-              %    Nlu,   _-z   'Ebok .                         etu         oor
B eo s tf   f I I TORA f  \   3/                   j                6~~~~~~           ~~~~~ERTOUA  
Ideneco<Q_~~~~~~~~~~C A                                     EEo;                                          1,
UTMBE Lrbte Deo          dN                   IN    Y                                                EST           NdeIHel4
KriDi   EboIowo AALooehmo                                                                          N.
KRIBI                          NOMOE'                                         4
_                                       ~~ ~                            ~ ~~~SUD!                     
EQUATORIAL                                             jU/
GUINEA    l.--rM----o-    . 
GO MUNt                      GABON                     ,                                                 '-'               i
12                                                  C O N  G O



